Monokuma (モノクマ, Monokuma) is a stuffed robotic bear and the self-proclaimed Headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy and instigates the Killing School Life featured in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

He later takes over the Killing School Trip featured in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair kicking out Usami in the process.

Monokuma returns once again in the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles Saga, starting a new Killing Game, Killing School Semester, featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony alongside his children, the Monokubs.

Monokuma is a bear that his whole face and body are divided by the center into two parts. It resembles the Yin-Yang symbol, of which there is a balance between two opposites in a way similar to a "flow". Its right side is white and has the classic expression of teddy bear; While its left side shows a more sinister appearance. It is black, has a red horizontal stripe for an eye and an evil smile.
Although it is completely divided into two opposite sides, the only parts of Monokuma that are not affected by the division in its area are the snout and the belly, since both remain white. He also has a large, obvious belly button on the underside of his belly. His protruding navel has an "X" shaped mark on it. Inside him he was a lot of wires due to him being a robot and a bomb.

In Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School and Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony, Monokuma maintained his appearance with only a few new things that changed in his game sprites. His body appears to be a little bit chubbier, and his black side seems to be a little more black-grayish in this game compared to the previous installments.

Outfits 
In Danganronpa 2, Monokuma briefly wears a light blue suit with a white shirt and a long red tie around his neck. The collectible Monokumas are seen wearing various outfits. In Chapter 1 he is wearing a bikini made out of clams and in his right ear he has a red hibiscus with him. In Chapter 3, he haves what seems to be a red Poncho and a Sombrero. In Chapter 5, he is seem supposedly wearing a COMP from the Megami Tensei series.

In the Wizard of Monomi, Monokuma is seen wearing a golden king crown with three blue diamonds seen. He is also wearing a red king cape around his neck and body.

In cosplay, Monokuma resembles the Yo-Kai, Jibanyan. He becomes a black and white colored cat with cat ears and a chip in his right ear. He also wears a blue and white collar in his neck around him, matching the flames at the end of his two tails being him.

During the Monokuma Theater in Danganronpa V3, he is seen wearing various cosplays from famous American movies that represent each of the characters from the movie.

Personality 
Monokuma is often described as easygoing and cheerful at first glance, but with very sinister undertone. However, he always rather quickly reveals his evil nature by describing killing games and his desire for despair, and he is very well known for his habit to say and do whatever he wants to. He loves despair, violence and chaos, summarized in one of his catchphrases "thrills, chills, kills!". He also has his own signature laughs, a sadistic "puhuhu" ("upupupu" in the Japanese version) and a mocking "ah-hahahaha".

In many ways, Monokuma represents duality both in design and personality, with his white right side and black evil side. He can sometimes act polite or cute and innocent, even patronizing, and during rare moments he even seems to give genuine positive and wise advice. However, he is mostly known for his malicious and cruel side, possessing a messed up sense of humor and a tendency to torment others and do anything for the sake of despair. He can switch between these traits at the drop of a hat, making him unpredictable for his students to deal with. He usually gets excited about the Class trials and does everything he can in order to make them entertaining for himself. He enjoys others' suffering, which makes him madly excited and thrilled, and in turn he gets bored and disappointed if the situation doesn't have as much despair as he hoped. Occasionally, he is so bummed out by the lack of despair that he seems to lose some of his energy and withdraws to make new plans. It's been shown that he can also get hypocritical about his ideology of despair, as he is very much willing to lie and cheat if he gets desperate enough. Still, even he seems to have some standards, as some people are so vile that they disgust even Monokuma.

Monokuma is immature and childish, often acting sarcastic and mocking towards the students, and occasionally dramatically pretending to be offended when he is rightfully accused. In general, he makes lots of jokes, bear puns and breaking of the fourth wall, and doesn't seem to take the students' situation seriously, though he claims that despair is a very serious matter to him. He takes every opportunity to belittle the students, dodging the blame and claiming that they are the ones responsible for everything bad that happens in the school. He also tends to ignore the students or act like he doesn't understand what they're talking about whenever they expose him with correct evidence. He can be quite impatient and might attack people with his claws, self-destruction or other means if he is annoyed or threatened enough. However, most of the time he holds himself back, under the claim that he cannot hurt his "beloved students". His bullying and abusive nature is especially clear in the way he treats Monomi, as he gets physically and verbally abusive towards her even if he is just slightly annoyed or seemingly for no reason at all. Similarly, he is seen acting very violent towards his children if they annoy him, though originally in a very cartoony way that didn't seem to bother them. However, he turns increasingly more cruel towards his children, and they are shown to be quite saddened by this as they mention that Monokuma used to be much more loving towards them in the past. He also likes to make fun of K1-B0 for being a robot, even though he is also a one. In the case of the students, Monokuma generally dislikes those who don't obey him or have such optimism or intelligence that they are harder for him to manipulate, and he tends to describe these people as "annoying".

Monokuma is also very arrogant and tends to treat others in rude manner, with Junko being the only one he refers to respectfully as "Lady Junko". Fitting his arrogance, he has multiple fake stories about his past, many of them nonsensical and with silly, dark or even thoughtful message in the end. Strangely, he seems to take great pride in his supposed role as the headmaster, demanding respect for the rules and getting angry if he is called a teddy bear instead of headmaster. Notably, he seems to be strongly against any shameful acts that could taint his respectful school, yet he himself often incorrectly accuses the students of having dirty motives and goes into way too much detail about his suspicions. Even though he acts like he is above all that, he can aim perverted comments at his students, boys and girls alike (especially for being teens). His perverseness and love for himself becomes especially clear in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony, as he seems disturbingly attracted to his own children simply because they share his "handsome" looks and only tolerates them for his "cute look". He tends to call the Monokubs "his cute cubs" and at one point he begun to turn bald because of the Monokubs' cuteness.

As seen in Danganronpa: the Animation, Monokuma as a bear seems to like fish and honey. As seen in Danganronpa 2, he mentions that he dislikes any kind of red food, and he is also seen eating the meat prepared by Teruteru Hanamura. It's unclear how eating works for him considering that he is a robot, but it seems to be just a part of his comical act, just like his sleeping.

In Danganronpa: the Animation, Monokuma also seems to be a little more visually comical than usual, and he tends to have different objects with him like honeypot or fish. He also refers to people in the anime as "yer" (you) to refer to others.

Monokuma's personality is originally one of Junko's personalities which she uses in the First Killing Game while she controls him, though the personality stays consistent even when he's an avatar for different people. According to Kodaka, Monokuma is the easiest character to write because he is the type of character that can make him say anything he wants.

History 
Hope's Peak Academy Saga
Prior to the Tragedy 
During the refinement in preparation for the Killing School Life, Junko determined that a mascot is necessary as well - not even a host dressed in a sort of a cartoon character outfit would do. Therefore, during the prototype execution featuring Chiaki Nanami, she hosted the broadcast to the Class 77-B with a non-robotic stuffed bear version of Monokuma. At around the same time, she contacted Monaca, the Head of Towa Group's robotics division, to create the robotic version to be used for the Killing School Life, as well as additional units to serve as Junko's army. In order to hide the true nature of the robot, Monaca claimed that she wanted to develop a series of robots that could assist in rescue operations and other scenarios that would be dangerous for humans. The Monokuma units were then secretly distributed to the various branches of Ultimate Despair, with Junko taking several for her plot at Hope's Peak Academy. Junko also creates a personality for Monokuma in the Killing Game while she controls him.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy 
Prologue - Welcome to Despair 
Monokuma is first shown in the opening cutscene, watching a man who has been blindfolded and tied to a chair. After a second, Monokuma presses a button to trap the man in a rocket that blasts off into space and then crashes back to the earth, reducing the man's body to a skeleton because of the intense heat of crash landing back down. Monokuma laughs at his handiwork as the screen turns black.

During the game proper, Monokuma is first seen through the monitors, where he talks to the students to head to the gymnasium so they could begin the ceremony for entering to Hope's Peak Academy as Ultimate Students.

He makes his physical debut when the trapped students were gathered inside the gymnasium. He introduced himself as the Headmaster of the Academy (to the students' skepticism), explained the Mutual Killing game, the School Rules and the e-Handbook.

At some point around this time, Monokuma approached Sakura Ogami and forced her to become his accomplice by threatening her fighting dojo. Sakura was to act as a mole among the students, and if things didn't escalate soon enough, she was to commit murder to kick-start the "Killing School Life".

Chapter 1 - To Survive 
Soon after then Killing School Life began, Monokuma showed to everyone their dorm rooms and explained the detail and feature of each room. After Makoto tried to open the door because it didn't it didn't worked, Monokuma pops up and explained Makoto how to open it as his door had a problem because of the doorknob could get jammed. After giving the students a short period of adjustment to their new lives, Monokuma unveiled the first of many "incentives" to convince the students to kill each other: video tapes implying that their friends and family were being harmed. When this revelation caused Sayaka Maizono to break down into panic and despair, Monokuma was heard laughing evilly.

Soon, the Headmaster was gleefully announcing the first murder in "his" academy - Sayaka was found dead in Makoto's room. He ordered the students to come to the gym, where he explained what would happen next; they would descend to a courtroom beneath the school to participate in a Class Trial. If they correctly identified the murderer of the case, that person would be executed; if they failed to accuse the right person, the murderer could leave the academy as everyone else was executed. After explaining most of the information about the Class Trial, Monokuma was challenged by Junko Enoshima, who decided to defy his orders. Monokuma's attempt to make Junko submit only got him knocked the floor and stomped on; however, this only prompted him to activate the "Spears of Gungnir". As Junko was skewered through the chest, the other students realized that they could not hurt the headmaster to stop his plans. Monokuma then sent them off to begin the investigation of Sayaka's murder.

After the investigation, Monokuma made the students head to the courtroom to start the first Class Trial. He had to deflect a few questions from the students first, starting with Kyoko asking why there were 16 seats in the courtroom; he explained that it only meant that the courtroom was built to accommodate a maximum of 16 people. He was also questioned about the posts with the faces of the deceased in two of the empty seats; Monokuma replied that he put them there to allow the dead students to "participate" in the trials with their classmates.

In the end, Makoto Naegi managed to find the culprit of the murder, Leon Kuwata, prompting Monokuma to begin his execution. With everyone shocked by the brutality of the execution, Monokuma sent them back to their rooms, saying that the corpse and all the clues were removed from the academy, stating that just seeing them smile was enough gratitude, obviously another mockery and a reminder that they can not be lamented by the deaths of the that they died.

Chapter 2 - Boy's Life of Despair 
After the trial, Monokuma and the remaining students were seen in the gymnasium doing morning excersice witn Monokuma. However, the students questioned Monokuma if he Called them just for that. MONokuma annoyed, said that it was a waist of doing exercise and was only he to announce to the students that they're now allowed to access the second floor of the academy, where they discovered that the academy has been actually closed for years. Because the pool's locker rooms required the e-Handbooks to have access to the gym, Monokuma introduced a new school rule: lending your e-Handbook to another student is strictly prohibited. During the daily meeting in the cafeteria, the students theorized that Monokuma's controller must be a known psychopathic killer because of the situation they are in, this killer was theorized to be Genocide Jack, but they could not explain how someone could do such a planned execution, even if he had saved millions for it.

The next day, Monokuma announced his next incentive; envelopes sent to each of the surviving students. He warned that everyone's secrets would be made known publicly unless someone was killed in the next 24 hours, but Makoto doubted that anyone would kill over something so insignificant. The next day, however, Monokuma appeared in Makoto's room to wake up Makoto and announce to him physically that someone was murdered, this student was discovered to be Chihiro Fujisaki murdered in the girls' locker room, hung with strings with the words "Blood Lust" written with blood on the wall. Monokuma soon announced the investigation of the second murder case.

After the investigation, the Class Trial of Chihiro's murderer began. During the trial, Byakuya Togami claimed that the murderer was the serial killer, Genocide Jack; however, this was disproven when Genocide Jack herself clarified that she did not murder anyone. Due to an error of the killer himself, Makoto and Kyoko discover the identity of the culprit: Mondo Owada, who had lost his temper with lethal results after discovering Chihiro Fujisaki's secret: he was a boy disguised as a girl. Before executing Mondo, Monokuma explained both the killer and the victim's tragic backstories, and how they had collided to lead to murder.

Reveling in the students' despair, Monokuma initiated Mondo's execution, ignoring the protests of a distraught Kiyotaka Ishimaru. Monokuma was quick to execute him and at the end gen turned Mondo into butter.

Chapter 3 - A Next Generation Legend! 
After the Class Trial, Monokuma allowed the students to access the third floor of the academy. When Makoto Naegi and a shattered Kiyotaka discovered the air purification machine, Monokuma deceives Taka by saying that it was a time machine that could only return "a minute ago", adding "salt to his wounds" over Mondo's death. Later, Makoto found a strange photo in which Chihiro , Mondo and Leon appeared together, but it was taken and torn to pieces by Monokuma. He later promised a lot of money to the student who got away with murder; despite Sakura's assertion that human lives could not possibly be worth money, Kiyotaka Ishimaru and Hifumi Yamada were both found dead the next morning.

When the investigation into the murder of Kiyotaka Ishimaru and Hifumi Yamada concluded, the next Class Trial began. After many debates, Makoto deduced that Celestia Ludenberg was the guilty party, having tricked Hifumi into murdering Kiyotaka before murdering him in turn. Cornered, Celestia revealed that she hated the Killing Game and that her dream was to live in a castle; with Monokuma's monetary reward for graduating, she could greatly increase the chances of her dream coming true.

After the execution, Kyoko warns Makoto about a secret room in the academy she found. Makoto investigates, only to be knocked out by a mysterious masked figure; after awakening, he follows the sound of a commotion to the gym, where Monokuma and Sakura Ogami are in the middle of a battle.

Chapter 4 - All●Star●Apologies 
Sakura announced that she was done serving as Monokuma's mole; she would fight against him to ensure the mastermind's demise. The next morning, Monokuma publicly announced Sakura's role as his accomplice to the remaining students, renewing his command for her to commit murder. This announcement had a double purpose - punishing Sakura for her defiance and giving the students another motive to kill each other. After his announcement, Monokuma settled in to watch as his revelation divided the students over whether or not to trust Sakura. With tempers rising amid increasingly violent confrontations, another murder seemed inevitable.

To calm the chaos, Sakura decided to commit suicide, but not before writing a note for her classmates that explained her motives and what she knew about the mastermind's real plan. She intended to give the note to Aoi Asahina, but Monokuma replaced it with a note of his own, in which "Sakura" claimed that she was taking her life out of despair for the situation now gripping the academy. As Monokuma hoped, his forged message drove Hina to despair when she found it after Sakura's suicide - blaming herself and her fellow students for pushing her friend to kill herself, she resolved to lead the others to a false verdict in the next Class Trial, which would lead to all of their deaths.

Unfortunately for Monokuma, the remaining students managed to uncover the truth of Sakura's death and correctly vote her as the culprit of her own "murder". Afterwards, Monokuma casually revealed that the "suicide note" Hina found was actually a fake that Monokuma only wrote, and he proceeded to read Sakura's real suicide note to the stunned group. After revealing Sakura's true motive for killing herself, he gleefully mocked Hina for falling for the phony message, anticipating that the others would turn on her for almost getting them all killed for nothing. However, his plan backfired when Makoto pointed out that Monokuma's tampering was to blame for their strife, causing the surviving students to band together against him and the mastermind.

When even Toko Fukawa and Byakuya Togami vowed to focus on bringing down the true source of the academy's horrors, an enraged Monokuma executed Alter Ego for his attempts to hack into the main network of Hope's Peak Academy, revealing that he had known about the AI's existence all along and allowed him to access what files he'd collected and deciphered. Before leaving the courtroom, he also read one last part of Sakura's suicide note, revealing that the mastermind did "something" to the students as part of their plan, but left without revealing any further details.

Chapter 5 - 100 Mile Dash; Pain of a Junk Food Junkie 
With the six remaining students now united against the mastermind and Sakura's "final blow" revealed to be breaking the lock to the mastermind's control room, Monokuma knew that he had to finish them off quickly. As such, he finally unleashed his "ace"; the sixteenth student, Mukuro Ikusaba.

In the middle of the night, Makoto found Byakuya, Hina, and Yasuhiro Hagakure, dismantling Monokuma. Byakuya claims he found Monokuma inactive, so they started dismantling him to find out what makes him tick.

Monokuma popped back up after the group (minus Kyoko Kirigiri) found his control room, revealing that he was recording them and broadcasting it to the world. He soon announced that the investigation for Mukuro was about to begin. At the Class Trial, suspicion fell on Kyoko as the murderer of Mukuro Ikusaba, only for her to deflect it onto Makoto. Before the Ultimate Lucky Student could prove his innocence, Monokuma suddenly called "time's up!", declaring that Makoto would be considered guilty of the murder. Despite everyone's shock and protests, Monokuma took Makoto to his execution, only to be thwarted by Alter Ego who was still in the system. After a moment of surprise and fury, Monokuma laughed off the mishap, noting that Makoto had fallen into the garbage chute, where he would eventually die; unfortunately for him, Kyoko was able to rescue him.

Chapter 6 - Ultimate Pain, Ultimate Suffering, Ultimate Despair, Ultimate Execution, Ultimate Death 
After Kyoko and Makoto returned from the garbage room, they confronted Monokuma over his manipulation of the previous trial; noting that Monokuma's defiance of his own rules was a sign of desperation, Kyoko demanded a fair retrial. Intrigued, Monokuma agreed to Kyoko's challenge; if the students solved all of the mysteries of the school (including Mukuro's death and the identity of the mastermind), Monokuma would let them go, but if they failed, he would execute them all. Monokuma tried to get rid of some important information that was scattered around the Academy to prevent the students from knowing the truth behind the Killing Game.

During the retrial, Monokuma left his throne and took the long-unoccupied sixteenth seat in the courtroom. He interrupted the students' speculation about their lost memories, insisting that they focus on Mukuro's murder first. He gradually lost his composure as Makoto and the others slowly came to the realization that Mukuro had died long before the events of the previous night, revealing that she had been masquerading as Junko Enoshima the entire time. Cornered by his own attempts to conceal Junko's identity, Monokuma appeared defeated, but this only prompted Junko herself to make her appearance.

After Junko was found as the guilty murder, she and Monokuma executed themselves in the The Ultimate Punishment.

Epilogue - Goodbye Despair Academy 
After Junko executed herself in the wake of her failed attempt to drive the remaining students to despair, Makoto and the others finally escaped the academy. However, Monokuma remained in the class trial room, seemingly defunct. He suddenly laughs and reactivates himself, declaring, "I am Monokuma... And I am your--I am this school's... ...headmaster!"

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Although Monokuma never physically appeared, he was indirectly mentioned many times during the Demon Hunting game in Towa City. An entire army of mass-produced robots in his likeness served as the main enemies of Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!? 
Monokuma hacked the Neo World to enter and start a new Killing game. Monokuma first appears after Usami lets the students go swimming. He keeps a low profile while Hajime Hinata introduces himself to the others, and only appears when Hajime decides to relax and joins the others. He hijacks the camera systems and tells all the students to gather at Jabberwock Park. When they do, he suddenly pops up from the Jabberwock Statue and states his name and the fact that he is the School Headmaster.

Gen then announced being the headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy and the killing School trip that was about to begin. Monokuma started to fight Usami who wasn't willing to protect the students, however, to the end she lost to Monokuma and broke her magic wand. Once again, Monokuma started to fight Usami to change her to a more satisfying look, this turned out to be Monomi and Monokuma started to claim that he's his older brother. Because Monomi was being annoying to monokuma he started to punch and hit Monomi due to his annoyance. He then called out the Monobeasts to execute her. After this the Killing School Trip official began.

Chapter 1 - Destination Despair 
Monokuma, unlike the first game, doesn't need to prepare the motive as one of the students plans out the murder and another student commits a murder.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and Coconuts 
Monokuma calls the remaining students to the central island and presents a new motive, a video game that has incriminating evidence on two students.

Later after the class trial Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu interferes with the execution, getting gravely injured. He is forced to help him by healing him.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean Scent 
Monokuma is challenged to a fight by Akane Owari and defeats her. He prepares to execute her for breaking the rules, but she is saved by Nekomaru, who is gravely injured instead. Monokuma is then forced to collect him and heal him.

Monokuma prepares the second motive to the group, the Despair Disease that infects three students during the night. Later it infects another student and they end up committing a murder.

Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Clockwork? 
Monokuma, instead of presenting a motive, simply traps the remaining students inside the Grape and Strawberry houses and starves them until a murder occurs. To his excitement, one student murders Nekomaru Nidai.

Chapter 5 - Smile at Hope in the Name of Despair 
Monokuma had made the students believe was a sinister organization responsible for them being trapped in the killing game was Monomi and Chiaki. Monokuma fought with Monomi trying to protect Chiaki and the other students from getting executed, but then Monokuma reveals that he has more than 1,000 spares. He later executes Monomi alongside Chiaki at the end of Chapter 5 and all of her remaining copies were destroyed.

Monokuma decided that he would execute Monomi alongside Chiaki, since because Monomi is not a student he wasn't bound to the rules of the killing game. Both Chiaki and Monomi accepted their fate for the sake of the surviving students, willing them all to not give up on their futures. They were both executed by Monokuma in a punishment themed around Chiaki's talent of Ultimate Gamer, called "Please Insert Coin".

After the execution the students are shocked to see that they both die.

Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
The nature of the Neo World Program and its purpose, as well as Monokuma's role as an intruder are revealed. Later, during the final class trial, Monokuma transforms into his true form which is Alter Ego Junko.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc 
Monokuma instigates the "Final Killing Game" among the Future Foundation members, but his intentions, goals and the mastermind behind the killings are unknown. In episode 11 it's revealed that Monokuma seen is merely a recording.

Episode 01 - Third Time's the Charm 
Monokuma appeared for the first time via the monitor after he attacked the Future Foundation's off-shore facility and cut off every exit to the building.

Recording from Hope's Peak Academy's gymnasium, he informed that the Remnants of Despair was in the verge of extinction thanks to Future Foundation's effort. As a reward, he trapped the Future Foundation's Division leaders as the participant of the Final Killing Game, the last and the conclusion's battle between Monokuma and Makoto Naegi. He cheerfully told Makoto that the Final Killing Game can't be prevented because it already started with Chisa Yukizome's body fell from the ceiling.

This marked the final battle between Monokuma and Makoto as the conclusion of their story and the battle between Hope and Despair.

Episode 02 - Hang the Witch 
Monokuma explains to the captives about the game rules.

A familiar voice apeared taking to Monokuma inn which he did had no idea who was she and decided to change her into a more "familiar look", he appeared behind Usami and started to fight her and changed her to Monomi, this caused Monomi to lost a lot of her abilities.

When Makoto, Hina, Great Gozu and Miaya Gekkogahara fall asleep he asks the traitor if they are awake and questions who they will kill next.

Episode 04 - Who is a Liar 
Monokuma appears in the recap stating what happened in the past 3 episodes of Danganronpa 3 - Future Arc.

Episode 09 - You Are My Reason to Die 
Monokuma appeared in the recap stating and explained the events occurred past eight episodes of Future Arc.

Episode 11 - All Good Things 
When the fifth time limit hit, Monokuma appeared on the monitor Makoto was forcing himself to watch to determine whether or not Kyoko's theory about the brainwashing videos driving previous victims to suicide was true. Because Monokuma did not acknowledge Makoto, he figured out that the video was pre-recorded. After mockingly introducing "Monokuma's Gloomy Sunday", he appeared in a video similar to his old Monokuma Theater, nearly driving Makoto to kill himself before Juzo Sakakura intervened.

Sonia-Nevermind-Pixel-for-Jpn-Template	The section below is based on non-localized content only available in Japanese.
As such, this information is based on fan-contributed translation.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles Saga
Main article: Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles Saga
Danganronpa V3: Killing 
Monokuma returns in Danganronpa V3 as the main antagonist. This time, he is accompanied by his "children", led by Monotaro and appears in Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles where he forces sixteen students into a new Killing Game. He is also the only returning character from previous installments. Unlike in previous installments, Monokuma acts independently of being directly controlled by the mastermind. In this case, Tsumugi Shirogane can still remain as part of the group while Monokuma orchestrates the events of the game.


Monokuma was created by the organization that created and featured Killing Games for the outside world's entertainment, Team Danganronpa as the mascot of the series and the host of the Killing Games featured in the TV show. Monokuma has appeared ever since the first entries of the series as part of the Killing Games' host, most notably the killing game at Hope's Peak academy, the Killing School Life and the Killing Game at Jabberwock Island, the Killing School Trip. Since Monokuma is the mascot of the series, he is the face of the entire TV show. Ever since Monokuma's debut, Team Danganronpa decided to give him more potential as a character for the show, creating the Monokubs as the Children of Monokuma.

Danganronpa 52nd
Although not mentioned in the main story, it's heavily implied that Monokuma participated during the events of the 52nd Killing Game. He served as the host of the Killing Game. He along with, Tsumugi and Rantaro all participated during those events. Monokuma was the one responsible who forced Rantaro to be executed in order to make him participate once again in the 53rd Killing Game.

The Gofer Project 
Main article: The Gofer Project
Monokuma was a robot who was supposedly created by the remaining members of the Ultimate Despair. After the Gofer Project was put into action, Kokichi Oma lied about being a part of the Ultimate Despair and was supposedly the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, where Monokuma began piloting the Ark on his own, and returned it to "the Earth after its destruction" after hundreds of years the sixteen students were put into a cold sleep and forced them to participate in the Killing School Semester. The Earth current state is completely demolished by meteorites, devoid of oxygen, devoid of all living things. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

After Shuichi Saihara worked up, Monokuma was the first person he was, Shuichi shocked at Monokuma started to question him how did he got here. Monokuma without much saying used a Blackout light in order to make him forget all his "memories" and force him to participate in the Killing Game.

Killing School Semester 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Prologue - Ultimate Revival 
Monokuma's entrance in V3
Monokuma made his debut when his voice was heard by the Monokubs after they began to fight inside the Exisals. The Monokubs were excited to see his father. He appeared behind the podium inside the gymnasium with wings behind him. His appearance effectively died down the siblings quarrel and make them very happy to see their "daddy" back.

After Monokuma appeared he started to compliment the Monokubs, because of how adorable they are. Due to the Monokubs talking a lot of Monokuma being angry, he began to hit his Monokubs, they were at least beaten 2 times. After that, Monokuma introduced himself as the headmaster of the Academy to the students and begins to talk about the new killing game that would be done inside the Academy, after he stated that to leave the academy one had to be murder another student without being discovered and to realize the perfect murder.

The students were shocked and refused to participate, however, they had no choice but to listen to Monokuma's orders. After the announcement, all students are shocked looking at each other with suspicion.

Chapter 1 - My Class Trial, Our Class 
After Monokuma officials started the Killing Game, the students found the Death Road of Despair, after the students felled to get outside, Monokuma and his Kubs appear and started to taunt them. Monokuma stated that no matter how much they try they won't be able to make it to the outside world.

After Kaito Momota committed violence against the headmaster Monokuma, the Monokubs appear to make the example of what happens when they break a school rule. When Monokuma explodes and "dies", the Monokubs begin to cry for their father, thinking he is truly gone and vow to avenge his death. This made the students believe that the Killing Game had ended.

The next day, Monokuma appeared in a cosplay by the name "Jibakuma"; Tsumugi complained how awful his cosplay was. Monokuma then revealed his actual form, to the elation of the Monokubs; he revealed that he had a lot of spare bodies, while they only had one each. Monokuma stated that he appeared from a rumored machine where he supposedly re spawned back.

Monokuma revealed a motive for the students, which it was if they did not kill someone within 24 hours all the students will be attacked by several Monokumas and get killed one by one.

One hour before the deadline, Monokuma was seen in the monitors laughing and playing some kind of weird music with creepy videos warning the students about the deadline.

When the first victim was found Monokuma, announced in the monitors and taunted Kaede that they barely got to survive the attack before the deadline. After this Monokuma revealed the Monokuma File to the students with every detail about the crime scene of the victim.

After the investigation, the Monokubs announced to the students to head to the courtroom to begin the Class Trial. When the students arrived to the court room, Monokuma and the Monokubs were found sitting to manage the Trial.

After Shuichi Saihara founded the "blackened", Monokuma and the Monokubs were quick to execute her, but Kaito, Tenko, and Gonta Gokuhara immediately jump to her defense despite facing an Exisal. Kaede urges them to stop, saying that she's ready to die.

In the end, Kaede was executed by Monokuma after being found out as the supposed "blackened", were he hangs Kaede from a rope. Monokuma raises his baton, and the Monokubs appear on both sides of the piano, holding ropes that are connected to the rope around Kaede's neck. Using the ropes, they pull Kaede slightly upward, then start pulling her up and down, making her play a song on the piano using her feet. However, Kaede begins to step on the wrong piano keys, playing an out of tune song that disgusts the crowd of Monokumas.

After Monodam betrays Monokid and causes him to be destroyed during Kaede's execution, Monokuma seems distraught, but then brushes it off and says that's why you have more kids.

After the end of the Class Trial, Monokuma leaves behind the students and the Monokubs.

Chapter 2 - A Thin Line Divides Heaven and 
Monokuma was seen in the casino with Kaito, after he showed him the most difficult game. Monokuma started to taunt him after he lost everything and leaves afterwards.

Monokuma prepared a second motive to the students, which the Monokubs passed out as they are given through the Monopad were Monokuma targeted Kirumi Tojo to commit a murder.

After Ryoma Hoshi's corpse was discovered, Monokuma announced it through the monitors. In the Class Trial, Monokuma opened the Class Trial for the guilty murderer of Ryoma.

After Shuichi founded the guilty murderer, Monokuma announced that she will be executed shortly, Kirumi tried to ran away from the trial room, not wanting to die and to return to her country, however she cannot escape and was chased by Monokuma.

After witnessing Monodam causing Monosuke's destruction as well, Monokuma seems visibly shaken by his actions and also explodes.

Chapter 3 - Transfer Student From Beyond the 
After Monodam takes over the academy with the help of the other Kubs and the Exisals, Monokuma seemingly turns completely unresponsive and stars to turn bald from shock. This lasts for quite awhile until the Kubs don't know what to do and Monotaro and Monophanie start to cry, begging for their father to come back to them and telling him that they love him. Another Monokuma then appears, claiming that he had just been on vacation and left the Kubs the job, and that the unresponsive balding one was just his hired replacement.

Danganronpa V3 Monokuma Ghost Sprite
A ghost Monokuma can also be found inside the middle one out of three creepy rooms. He is supposedly the ghost of the Monokuma who got crushed by an Exisal.

Chapter 4 - Live and Let The Languid World 
Monokuma however, was dissapointed that the motive went to waste. Knowing this, Kokichi later met with Monokuma in secret in the game room at nighttime and proposed that they reuse the motive in order to make the Killing Game "more interesting". Monokuma happily went along with this plan, placing a Flashback Light that revealed the secret of the outside world within the Killing Game simulator.

Chapter 5 - Voyage Without Passion or 
After all the Monokbs died and got destroyed during the executions, Monokuma was seen mourning for them in private.

When the students headed to the cafeteria, Monokuma also appeared to give to the students their prizes for surviving the fourth Class Trial. However, the students didn't want Monokuma's prizes and tried to ignore him, however at the end the students kept those prizes.

When K1-B0 and Shuichi began to investigate the new area in the Ultimate Academy, K1-B0 and Shuichi triggered an extremely loud alarm which caused Monokuma to appear to just get angry and yell at K1-B0 and Shuichi. He then deactivated the alarm. The students then questioned Monokuma about that higly guarded door, Monokuma decided to give let the students enter that room, since it's now a very pointless room due to the Monokubs being destroyed. Monokuma gave to Shuichi the alarm button so he would be able to deactivate it when ever the wish. Monokuma stated that only him and the Monokubs know the secret passcode to enter this room, he then opened the door to the students so that they could enter anytime they wanted.

After K1-B0 and Shuichi entered they encountered the inactive Exisals. Monokuma appeared once again and stated that those are useless now since all the Monokbs are dead and nobody else apart from them know how to control the Exisals.

While Shuichi was investigating the new area, he encountered Rantaro's research lab that he couldn't open. However, Monokuma appeared claiming that it was closed because the owner is dead and he states that there's a rule that people who have died and not opened his lab, that lab will be closed forever due to the owner being dead. Monokuma then disappeared.

The students challenged Monokuma as they wanted to end this killing game to not take part of this Killing Game anymore. The remaining students started to prepare a plan to end this killing game by destroying Monokuma. However, Monokuma was gone missing for an entire day and never showed up in the gymnasium. After the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi appeared and started to talk about him supposedly being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced everyone to participate in the Killing School Semester as he supposedly was the one who started all this.

When Kokichi took Kaito as a hostage Monokuma was once again seen in middle of the Exisals as he was surrounded by four of them as they were in autopilot to guard Monokuma from the Exisal's hangar.

After the students found Kokichi's body he was seen in the monitors and telled everyone to meet in the crime scene. Due to Kokichi's plan, Monokuma was not able to know who was killed and wouldn't have any proper judgement to create during the class trial.

After the investigation, Monokuma announced to the students to meet up in the usual spot to begin the class Trial, this time without the Monokubs. When the students arrived, Monokuma was already in his position and ready to start the Class Trial. The students ordering Monokuma to reveal the suspect, disappointed he told "Kokichi" to come out.

Kaito in the Exisal pretending to be Kokichi, challenged Monokuma in the Class Trial in order to end the killing game and confuse him who the real blackend is in order to make him no longer continue the Killing School Semester. During the Class Trial Monokuma teamed up with the survivors in order to defeat "Kokichi" inside the Exisal. This is what made Monokuma participate in the fifth Class Trial and introduced himself as the Ultimate Despair Headmaster.Due to Monokuma relying on Shuichi this is what lead Shuichi to lie to Monokuma in order to confuse him from who was the actual blackened from the Class Trial.

After Shuichi found Kaito as the guilty murderer of Kokichi, Monokuma was quick to want to execute him, but Maki refused to let him get killed regardless of whether or not he was sick. She was ready to kill Monokuma. However, Monokuma then revealed that he brought all of the latest models of the five Monokubs to have been reconstructed and are active once more, meaning that all five Exisal are once again under their control and will be defend Monokuma.

Kaito stated that he wouldn't let him complete his execution and finish this. During Kaito's execution, his illness ends up being the end of him instead of the execution, as he died in the middle of the execution, he was killed by his own terms and not Monokuma's, much to his annoyance.

When the execution ended Monokuma ordered the Monokubs to retread. Monokuma the triggered a Flashback Light to the students so that at some point they would remember something new from their memories. After that he left the Class Trial ending this.

Chapter 6 - Goodbye 
After K1-B0 began a rampage he began a was with Monokuma in order to destroy the Ultimate Academy. Monokuma and the Monokubs, riding their Exisals, arrive and threaten to destroy K1-B0 for damaging the school and ending the Killing Game. K1-B0 reassures everyone to find the truth while he engages the Monokubs in combat, fighting them the entire time everyone else is investigation the real truth about the Killing Game.

After Shuichi and Himiko find out about Rantaro's true talents, he got angry at Monokuma for breaking his own rules and executing Kaede wrongly as he stated that the mastermind was the one responsible for killing Rantaro and was all a trap by the mastermind and Monokuma. Shuichi demanded a Class Trial to Monokuma that would make the students point out the real murdered that killed Rantaro and end the Killing Game itself.

Soon after the investigation, Monokuma and the Monokubs are presents in the final class trial with the remaining students as the students are ready to discover the mastermind's true identity and stop Monokuma and the mastermind. Monokuma forced the Monokubs to participate in the class trial in order to defend the mastermind from being found as the guilty murder. However, Monokuma slowly destroys them by triggering an explosion with a remote as Shuichi Saihara gets closer to learning who the real mastermind is, with Monotaro and Monophanie being the last Monokubs to explode. After Tsumugi Shirogane is revealed as the mastermind, Monokuma continues to operate independently of her.

While the other survivors were quick to oppose Tsumugi and Monokuma, they both reveal that the participants of the Killing School Semester are also "fictional characters", whose memory, personality, feelings, and talent were all fabricated in order to provide an exciting setting for the killing game for the outside world.

Monokuma and Tsumugi revealed themselves as the ones behind the Killing game and also about Team Danganronpa. Monokuma was created by Team Danganronpa to be the mascot of the TV show "Danganronpa", were he was the one to host the Killing games of every Danganronpa season (excluding the spin-offs). Monokuma began to shown to the students the world broadcast of the Killing game with K1-B0's point of view.

He tried to refute and force them students to participate in the Class Trial as they were trying to ignore the Class Trial. Monokuma and Tsumugi tried to manipulate the students to make K1-B0 execute himself and force them to participate once again in a new Killing Game that would take place in the Danganronpa timeline.

When Monokuma displayed the results of the final voting, Tsumugi was shocked to discover that no one had voted, proving that the audience does not want Danganronpa to continue. Monokuma was upset due to Danganronpa ending like this and states that is not the proper way to end the long running reality series. Tsumugi, upon realizing that Danganronpa was indeed over and done with, promptly loses all of her hope in living as she denied a world without Danganronpa, but had not prepared a proper execution beforehand and as such left it to K1-B0.

K1-B0 did not hesitate and proceeds to execute everything, sparing everyone but Monokuma and Tsumugi were getting executed and got crushed by a rock, who waved at the camera with a look of disappointment on Tsumugi's face before they both get flattened under rubble inadvertently caused by K1-B0 executing everything, and ending the killing game for good.


Main article: The Ultimate Punishment
Main article: Ultimate Annihilation


Creators:
Junko 
Junko was the mastermind behind Monokuma throughout the events of Killing School Life and Killing School Trip - while she controls him -, and the creator of his concept and personality. Before Junko is exposed as the mastermind, Monokuma desperately tried to conceal her identity from the survivors. Monokuma's personality is based on one of Junko's many personalities that she creates for him and is complete with her holding the bear over her face when she uses it. Junko is the only student that Monokuma respects and tends to call her "Lady Junko". Monokuma and Junko are part of the Ultimate Despair and dues they also resemble it as being the original founders. In Danganronpa V3, he's self-procaimed talent references Monokuma formerly being part of the Ultimate Despair only by adding headmaster to the title.

Monaca 
While Junko created the concept of Monokuma, Monaca brought him to life by creating his body. Via her position as the Head of Towa Robotic Branch, Monaca mass-created Monokuma units.

Family:

When Monokuma shows up on the island, he adopts Usami as his little sister without her approval. Monokuma usually beats her up when she irritates him, which happens often. Monokuma also likes to make fun of her. He also always punches or harms her when she bothers him. Monokuma also shows no worry when he remembers that he is an only child and decides to execute Usami with Chiaki Nanami.

In Danganronpa 3, Monokuma claims he doesn't recognize Usami, but he appears to be just joking as he then hacks Miaya's computer and turns Usami into a more "familiar" form - his "little sister" Monomi.

Monokuma 
Monokuma is the self-proclaimed father of Monotaro, Monokid, Monosuke, Monodam and Monophanie. He calls them his "adorable children" and seems even disturbingly attracted to them because they look like him and he loves his own looks.

While Monokuma seemingly acts sweet towards his children at times, he seems to be neglectful and violent most of the time, punching or otherwise physically abusing them if they annoy him and overall acting very passive aggressive. Considering himself the headmaster, he seems annoyed if his children try to steal the show, with him even stating multiple times that he tolerates them only because they are so cute. Monokuma loves to lick his cubs affectionately, though this often feels like passive aggressive punishment since almost all the cubs hate the licks, excluding Monophanie.

Monotaro and Monodam usually refer to him as "father", while Monokid calls him "Papa Kuma", Monosuke as "pops" and Monophanie as "daddy". Out of all the Monokubs, Monokuma seems to like Monophanie the most due to her unique kind personality and general cuteness, creepily stating that he could eat her up, which startles even her. However, Monophanie's sweetness also seems to annoy Monokuma at times, since he himself is so evil. Monokid and Monotaro also greatly respect their father, with Monotaro especially loving him, and even Monodam seems fond of their father at first. Monosuke seems the most indifferent towards their father, though still respects him in his own way.

In Chapter 3, Monodam forcefully takes Monokuma's place with the help of the Exisals, accusing him of treating his children like slaves. The Kubs also accuse him of being too old for his job. Monokuma seemingly begins to lose his hair over this and becomes unresponsive in shock for awhile, though another copy of him appears later claiming that he'd just been on a vacation and left the job for his Kubs and the balding substitute.

Monokuma doesn't really seem to care whenever his Kubs die, and he even decides to kill Monotaro and Monophanie himself during Gonta's execution in Chapter 4. He gives a petty excuse that they had only been spending time together and ignoring him. He quickly feels a mix of sadness and amusement, and then laughs it all off by stating that he's probably never going to get the hang of the whole parenting thing. He is later seen grieving his Kubs, in somewhat pretense way, and then begins to wonder why did they even exist.

He later creates new copies of his Kubs, so he would have the ability of the Exisals once again in order to protect him from danger and have full control at the Academy once again. During Chapter 6 in the Final Class Trial, Monokuma had a self-destruct button to destroy the Monokubs when ever he gets excited and pressing the button to destroy all of them one by one after their participation in the last Class Trial dissatisfied him.

Another member of The Monokuma Kubs are Nanokumas. They helped Monokuma on monitoring the Killing School Semester from inside the Ultimate Academy and transmitting the live footage to Motherkuma.

Allies:

Monokuma has the Monobeasts under his control as they will do anything he requests, he seems to treat them as pets rather than mere machines and tools. Because Monokuma refers to his relationship with the Monobeasts as per their 'contract' it could be that the Monobeasts aren't fully under his control but simply have an arrangement.

Team Danganronpa
In Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles Saga, Monokuma was created by Team Danganronpa and used as the mascot in their reality show titled Danganronpa.

Tsumugi 
Tsumugi and Monokuma are members of Team Danganronpa and both of them worked together in the latest season of the Danganronpa season.

Tsumugi and Monokuma don't interact with each other that much, this could be to hide the fact that they both work for Team Danganronpa and usually act as they don't even know each other.

Tsumugi go tends to yell when ever Monokuma appears out of nowhere as she states that something is about to happen when he appears.

Monokuma executed Kaede in order to protect her from the students to clear out her suspicions on her as the Ringleader.

In Chapter 6, Monokuma and his children try to refute Shuichi Saihara from discovering the truth behind her as the mastermind of the Killing Game. At the end of the last Trial, both of them are seen waving their hands as both get crushed by a rock and die together.

In Ultimate Development Plan, Tsumugi and Monokuma are seen to have a good relationship as they are interacting well and report to each other about the plans at the festival.

K1-B0
K1-B0 along with Monokuma were created by Team Danganronpa for the TV show, Danganronpa. However, K1-B0 seemed to get very annoyed whenever he forced the students to do something as he pleased, he even refused to listen to him and tried to ignore him. Monokuma always seems to mock him for being a robot and makes puns about him. K1-B0 doesn't trust or likes Monokuma in any way. K1-B0 also tried to protect the students when Monokuma executed them. During the end of Chapter 5, after Kaito was executed, K1-B0 stated that he wanted to kill and end Monokuma. Because the students didn't have hope with themselves, Monokuma mocked them that they should give up on hope since there's no hope left for them. However, K1-B0 didn't wanted to give up on hope and lose to Monokuma and wanted to help his classmates for the sake of hope.

In Chapter 6, K1-B0 began a war with Monokuma and his children to stop him and the mastermind by destroying the academy and revealing everything to everyone to protect his classmates.

In the final Class Trial, K1-B0 was challenged by Monokuma a lot of times during the Class Trial in order to defend Tsumugi and the truth being the Killing Game. Soon after the final Class Trial ended, K1-B0 started to destroy Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles he forgave everyone with the exception of him and Tsumugi. In the end, he destroyed everything and betrayed him and Tsumugi by leaving the survivors alone.

In bonus mode, K1-B0 was angry at Monokuma because he treated her sister bad and stated that robots shouldn't fight like that, especially because those two are "family".

Hope's Peak Academy Students:
Makoto 
During the Killing School Life, Makoto feels intense hatred for Monokuma, especially after the events of Chapter 1. The two maintain a fierce rivalry throughout the Hope's Peak Academy saga, a battle between Hope and Despair. In Danganronpa 3 - Future Arc in the Final Killing Game, Monokuma states that this will be their final battle and conclude the history of each other between the last battle of Hope and Despair.

Kyoko 
As one of Monokuma's captives, Kyoko is, at first, very cautious around him, suggesting to her fellow students that they obey his orders. Later, when Kyoko breaks the school rules and steals one of Monokuma's possessions, she angers Monokuma. Monokuma tried to manipulate the students to suspect Kyoko as the culprit who supposedly killed Mukuro Ikusaba and vote for her as the guilty murderer. If followed the bad ending, Monokuma executes her leaving the other students inside the academy. If following the good ending, Kyoko challenges him in Chapter 6 to find the mastermind behind the killing game and the murder of Mukuro.

Sakura 
Monokuma blackmailed Sakura into serving him or watch her family and lover Kenshiro be killed. Sakura's working relationship with Monokuma was something that she disliked however she had no choice but to interact with his plan. She soon rejected serving him in order to protect the rest of her classmates. Monokuma then decided to exposed Sakura's role as the traitor to everyone for revenge when she refused to betrayed her friends which she has no choice but dies for the sake of everyone's lives here. During her dying mesage, she promised to everyone that she will be able to destroy Monokuma's plans and will uncover the mastermind since she blames Monokuma for her death and everyone being against each other.

Ultimate Academy Students:
Kokichi Oma 
Kokichi sees Monokuma as a cool robot. However, unlike K1-B0, Kokichi doesn't tease him for being a robot. He thinks that Monokuma is the coolest one of all the Monokumas and even considers his children, the Monokubs, a ripoff of Monokuma.

Kokichi and Monokuma worked together in Chapter 4 in order to make the Killing game much more interesting and both prepared a motive for students, which was the outside world. Kokichi also lied about him being part of the Ultimate Despair and was the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship during the Gofer Plan, which effectively forced everyone to participate in the Killing School Semester as he supposedly was the one who started all this. However, in order to defeat Monokuma, Kokichi lied to Monokuma in order to confuse him from the one who supposedly died.


DR1DR2DR BTB/MTB/PARDRIFDRtADR3DRV3ExtraReferences
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"I'm not a teddy bear! I...am...Monokuma! And I am this school's headmaster!"
"How dare you compare me to a child's plaything! You've cut me deep. Deeper than the Mariana Trench... My remote control system is so complex, even the folks at NASA can't recreate or even comprehend it! Ah, but don't make me say stuff that might destroy NASA's dreams. I just couldn't BEAR that! Now, ah, make no mistake—you few students, so full of potential, represent the hope of the world. And to protect such splendid hope... ...you will all live a communal life together solely within the confines of this school. Everyone will live in harmony together, and adhere to the rules and regulations of the school. I am not screwing with you! I am no liar, of that can be 100% sure. No matter how much you may yell and scream for help...help will not come. So with all of that in mind, feel free to live out your life here with reckless abandon!"
"You keep saying this is a lie, or a joke. A bunch of skeptics, all of you. But I guess you can't help it, huh? You all grew up in an age where you're taught to doubt your neighbor... Well, you'll have plenty of time to find out whether or not what I say is true. And when that time comes, you'll see with your own eyeballs that I speak the undeniable truth."
"Stabbing, strangling, bludgeoning, crushing, hacking, drowning, igniting, how you do it doesn't matter. You must kill someone if you want to leave. It's as simple as that. The rest is up to you. Give it your all to achieve the best outcome in the worst way impossible."
"Like I said before, you guys are the hope of the world. But you know... Taking that hope and seeing it get murdered creates a a darkened shadow of despair. And I just find it so...darn...exciting!"
"To kill each other is to kill each other. I'm sure there's a dictionary here somewhere if you need it."
"Listen. From this moment on, this school is your home, your life, your world. Got it? And you can kill as much as you wanna kill! So go ahead, go on a kill-kill-killing spree!"
"Joke? What, you mean like your hair?"
"Any naughty boy or girl who violates my rules won't get off with just a little swat on the butt."
"Rules restrict, yes, but they also protect. Society, for example, would be utter chaos without laws. The same thing applies here! Which is why it's crucial we have strict punishments in place for violators. Please enjoy your abundantly dreary school life! And...see ya!"
Chapter 1:

"You're supposed to be the Ultimate Lucky Student, right? But looks like you're not lucky at all!"
"Okay then...sweet dreams, everyone! Good night, sleep tight, don't let the bed bugs bite..."
"In any normal school, Mr. Monokuma would be a kind teacher. But when I think about what's coming up... ...I'm just so full of pride and joy."
"Remember that you're all students of Hope's Peak Academy, and strive to refine your ideals. I swear to you, I will send you all off into a new tomorrow!"
"Good morning, everyone! It is now 7 a.m. and nighttime is officially over! Time to rise and shine! Get ready to greet another beee-yutiful day!"
"Ahem, so...I'm sure that you've noticed the killing game has begun, but... ...there's still room for a little laughter. It seems our newest students, already so filled with despair, still have some hope of escape! Puhuhu... So when will it begin? When will their hope begin to die? Is it time yet? Is it time!? Heartpounding excitement!"
"I need an immediate, fast-acting pick-me-up! If it doesn't act now, it's the same as giving in to regret. What do you think guides the world? Speed, of course! That's why Formula One drivers are so popular! Any idiot can accomplish something if they take it slow. Even a human piece of excrement could create a masterpiece if they spent their entire life on it! Someone who does things in a timely fashion is both wise and admirable. Straight is better than a curve or an angle. Freestyle is better than the backstroke or breaststroke! Drive-thru is better than sit-down! A sunday comic artist is smarter than a graphic novelist! What I'm saying is, speed is the gold standard of the standard world. Which is why I said I need that pick-me-up!"
"The police? You're putting your faith in the police!? You guys, seriously... Do you understand what role the police exist to fill? All they're good for is being a foil, playing against a villain or anti-hero or evil organization. The bad guys come along and destroy them, and that shows just how badass they really are. Are you sure you wanna rely on such an unreliable group of losers? I mean come on! If you really, REALLY wanna get out of here, all you gotta do is kill!"
"Your life here has already begun and a couple days have gone by, and nobody's killing anybody! I thought all of you kids were lazy and selfish, and here you are working together. But I'm totally bored!"
"All the mystery ingredients are here—right people, right place. So why hasn't anyone killed anyone yet? That's what I couldn't understand. But I just realized there was one very important piece missing! If you wanna know, I'll tell ya! It's motive! Puhuhu! It's so simple! I just have to give everyone a motive!"
"What do I want from you...? Well, if you must know... Despair. That's all. If you want to know more than that, you'll have to figure it out for yourselves. Do whatever you need to to uncover the mystery hidden within this school. I won't try and stop you. Cuz to be honest, it's entertaining as heck watching you guys search so desperately for answers! So I guess I want amusement from you, too."
"If I hadn't avoided your punch, you would have just violated school regulations. But boy are you slow slow slow slow SLOW! I could've downed a thousand-dollar full-course dinner in the time it took you to finish your swing! Your speed, agility, alertness, passion, boldness, sense of despair, antagonization, it's all lacking!"
"But even our divine world of freedom has a few rules. After all, freedom can only exist *because* of rules. If you're really dead set on returning to that tiny piece of dog poop you call Earth... ...please do your best to follow the rules. I hope I've made myself perfectly clear. So then, let's everyone do our best to follow these new guidelines and live happily ever after together!"
"I can promise you, I won't do anything that goes against the purpose of your school life here. I'm famous at safari parks throughout the world for following the "Bear-Times-One" rule!"
"You think it's really that easy? You can just kill someone and waltz on outta here? You're super naive! Devilishly naive! HELLISHLY NAIVE! No no no, the real thing has just begun."
"Execution is...execution. Ex-e-cution! Electric chair, bzzt bzzt! Poison gas, cough cough! Torn apart like a paper plane in a hurricane! But judge carefully, because all your lives are on the line!"
"Don't be so selfish!"
"The evil standing here before me... I'm trembling with fear...! But I won't give in to such evil! It's my style to stick it out and resist till the very end...! If you really wanna get out of here... ...you'll have too go through me first!"
"Now I am painfully aware of the great power and meaning of a promise... I really wanted to keep a corpse from popping up for no good reason, ya know? But I guess you all needed to be taught a lesson, after all. Ahh, what an amazing promise! But now you guys understand, right? Now you see just how serious I am... Defy me and you get shot full of holes, exploded, buried alive, disintegrated...et cetera. So if you don't want that to happen to you, you' best obey those school regulations!"
"It's no more remarkable than the inevitable demise of the entire human race. It's just as natural as the eventual end of the world itself. This isn't some superhero comic. So it's not like when you die, you didn't *really* die. This is reality!"
"Kill this entire time...? Don't be silly, you can't kill time! Or are you being metaphorical? Are you saying I wanted to waste time this whole time? Come on, what do you take me for? I'm Monokuma!"
"Please board the elevator in front of you, which will transport you to the courtroom... ...where all your fates will be decided."
"I'd feel awful if they got left out just because they died. Friendship penetrates even death's barrier!" (About death portraits)
"But ya know...you're supposed to be the Ultimate Lucky Student, right? But to have such a cruddy door... Puhuhu...! That's not lucky at all!"
"Make triple sure you vote for someone! You wouldn't want to be punished for something so minor, right?"
"Boy howdy! The entertainment industry must sure be terrifying, huh!? I mean, to try and kill someone just because of those relationships! She seemed so nice and lovely on the outside, but inside...she'd descended into pure madness!"
"I understand, really I do. Yup yup! You're in utter despair thanks to Sayaka's betrayal, right? Compassion, intimacy, love... The stronger those feelings, the stronger those feelings, the stronger the despair when they collapse!"
"Uh-oh! Did you awaken to your sense of justice!? Well, it just so happens that there's nothing more unethical than an unwavering sense of justice. After all, it's people with that sort of mentality that perpetuate war all over the world. Is that the kind of justice that's awakened within you!?"
"No more begging! No more excuses! You must pay the penalty for breaking the rules! Society demands it! Well hey, if you don't like it... ...all you gotta do is swear to cut all ties with the outside world and accept living here forever! But that's only if every single one of you can get onboard with that. Puhuhuhu... Waahahahaha! Bwaaahahaha!"
"It seems like you're trying to use common sense to make sense of something that doesn't make sense! That's like trying to put a mile on a scale! I just don't think it's possible..."
"Puhuhu. You must really hate me to get so angry, huh? But if you do that, you're barking waaay up the wrong tree. What happened, happened because more than one of you decided you wanted to get out, right? No matter how much time passes, you can't cut free of your regrets from the outside world. You're to blame!"
"I need to save some of the fun for later!"
Chapter 2:

"It's okay, no need to thank me! Just seeing your delighted, smiling faces is thanks enough for me! After all, nobody wants to look at a rotting corpse every day! That can't be good for your health... Nyohohoho!"
"It was totally obvious before that you were trying to make yourselves feel better and justify what you did. Now pay attention and remember this well! The burden of judging others is a heavy one to bear. So be well aware of your actions! Order and stability rely on the sacrifice and responsibility of everyone!"
"Ahh, doesn't this feel just great!? Being stuck inside like this, you gotta make sure to stay healthy!"
"Don't sweat the small stuff! That's my motto. Whoa, I sounded pretty cool just now, don'tcha think? Did you fall in love with me? Am I just to die for? Am I just to die in writing agony for? If exercise makes you laugh, exercise will make you cry! Now, if you keep doing these exercises, you will uncover the secret of the Assassin's Fist! Passed down from generation in the empire of darkness... The power can be yours! So go ahead, look around all you want! Enhoy the brave new post-trial world till you explode!"
"Anyone who commits such indecency will be punished without mercy for their scandalous sexual depravity!"
"You like that? I'm kind of a genius, right? It's cuz my brain is 100% cotton! It's cuz all you teenagers are sex-crazed maniacs! You're at that age you'd try humping a plastic bottle! So to keep anything unseemly from happening, I have to maintain a rigorous watch!""
"All I care about is protecting the holy image of the school itself! I don't care what happens in your private dorms! By force or by cunning, do whatever you want!"
"Mr. Monokuma... Mr. Monokuma, do you have a second? I...I don't really like myself. I don't have any kind of skill or hobby I can say I'm super good at... And my grades are totally average, too. My reflexes are okay. Not great, not awful. I could get into a decent college, where I'd make a few friends. Maybe even find a normal girlfriend.. Which is exactly why I don't like who I am! I understand that now! My life is just one giant copy-paste! I don't have any imagination! I'm a perfectly average cardboard cutout! You see what I mean, right Mr. Monokuma!?"
"Whenever I spot a cute girl, I have a tendency to stare. I can't help it—I just gaze with intensity. The other day, I rode my bike to the train station... I was in the bathroom, just looking at myself in the mirror..."
"If fate does exist... ...does that mean your future is decided the moment you're born? If all your yesterdays pile up to create your tomorrow... ...is your future as final as your past? I just don't know. That's why I'm still alive—because I don't know. That's why I desperately cling to life!"
"Who wouldnt've ever guessed she would go for someone like him? But eager passion can also be scary! Sometimes that leads people off in the wrong direction!"
"I'm low on energy these days. My stitching's even losing all its shine and luster... I'm thinking, it's probably become of this ho-hum, boring old everyday life. I'm looking for something with a little more stimulation, something rife with danger and intrigue! Listen, can I just be frank? The next blackened hasn't shown up yet, and I'm getting booooored!"
"As long as you're alive, it's a given that there's things you don't want other people to know about you! So I did a little investigating of my own, and I dug up some of your darkest secrets!"
"But there'sa HUGE difference between "Oops!" and "That's right." You know what I'm saying, right? Anyone can kill someone in the heat of the moment. But surprisingly few can do it with calculated intent. To make that choice, then put it into action, it's way harder than just letting your emotions lead you. It's all about preparation. Resolve."
"What, does that freak you out? You guys got no balls, you know that!? Is there just nothin' down there at all? Well, I'll let you pray to mine if you want. Actually, I don't have any, either! Sorry!"
"I mean, if one person went around and killed everyone, your lovely student life would be all over, right?"
"Well in a good mystery, you don't want to miss out on at least the *potential* of a serial killer angle! Nyoohohoho! Just one would totally murder that possibility!"
"Kyaaah! You're treating me like a puny little appetizer instead of the main course that I am!"
"Good, good, you're rip-raring to go! Gotta say, I don't hate it! Not at all! Okay then, let's get this show on the road!"
"Once the killing game had begun here at the school, he had no choice but to accept this fact. After all, this world is survival of the fittest. If you're not strong, you don't survive."
"As soon as our killing game began, he realized... ...no matter how tough he pretended to be, he was just another weakling that could die in an instant."
"Look at him! You see? You're all just like him! For a secret from the past, for a memory... For that, he killed living human in cold blood! He couldn't cut free of his regrets from the outside world. He doesn't know what true strength is. Do you see hope anywhere in there!? Cuz I sure don't!"
"Laugh at death, and your soul will forever be at peace."
"But you know, this punishment, this despair—it's not jut for you. All this punishment, all this despair is my gift to mankind itself! I am not overexaggerating! These punishments are meant to transform all hope to despair!"
"Good GRIEF! I don't understand why you have to pick apart every little stupid thing!"
"Oooh, so cool! It's like you're the main character of a video game or something! No trash mob for you!"
"Once things really get moving, it'll be like a rollercoaster. There won't be any stopping it! Fear and despair charge forward at a speed nothing can hope to match."
Chapter 3:

"You peeked, didn't you!? Well, they all had some pretty dazzling smiles, huh? They were definitely living their school life. It's like they ripped a page right outta the book of youth!" (About a picture showing Mondo, Leon, and Chihiro together)
"Puhuhu... Have fun in your man's fantasy...! Have a smashing good time!"
"Up till now, I've been using the WOOSH of the North Wind to get you all moving. But sometimes you gotta use the Sun to light a fire under someone's butt! Ahh-hahaha!"
"C'mon, stop trying to act tough. The most important thing is to live a pure and moral communal life!"
"Little kids have it so easy... Cuz they can put Li'l in front of their name, and right off the bat everyone thinks they're cute! Well fine then! I want everyone to start calling me Li'l Monokuma! See? Just by adding that, my cuteness goes up by at least like, 10%. Right? Yeah, the world doesn't have nearly enough "Li'l"s! More "Li'l"s would lead to the salvation of the world! Just imagine... "Li'l Arsonist," "Li'l War Criminal," "Li'l Destruction of the Environment"...! "Li'l Hit and Run," "Li'l Death Tax," "Li'l Great Depression"! Even the darkest subject can suddenly become brighter! Our dreams are expanding-ding-ding!"
"Happy New Day! I'm the kinda guy, I don't wanna celebrate a new year. I wanna celebrate the dawn of every new day! Because every new day deserves celebrating! So... Once again, happy New Day!"
"Murder" is a word whose definition changes with time, with place, with society. If murder is evidence of abnormality, then all of history's greatest heroes must have been abnormal. Sometimes the murders that people forgive are way more abnormal than the ones they don't!"
"Are you excited? Are you pumped!? It's time for the Class Trial to begin! Like the bright burst of fireworks, like the flash of a soul clashing with life and death...!"
"Hmhmhm... When I see all of you gathered together like this... ...I realize just how few of you there are left! Your school life is slowly reaching its climax!"
"What what!? Do you really hate me so much? But I'm so cute! Don't rush me! Of course I'm gonna start it! I'd never hold out on you like that! ...Okay, let's begin! Get to your assigned seats! I would never be like, "Stay tuned for the action-packed Class Trial after this commercial break!"
"You all done? Okay, then let's get rollin'! The blackened disturbed the peace, and must pay the price!"
"Someone couldn't cut free of their regrets from the outside world, and so more people had to die... You guys are still young! You need to place more value on your lives! Jeez... And here I thought you guys were gonna pass the torch of hope to the next generation!"
"You're all the embodiment of hope, whether you like it or not. And it's my destiny to knock you down one by one! It's sad, yes it is. But that reality just can't be avoided."
"If you get lonely, gimme a shout! Not that'll do anything about it, of course! Puhuhu... See ya!"
Chapter 4:

"A forgery plot? What are you, a middle schooler? You think the moon landing was faked, too? Come on! If there were such a thing as the Nobel Truth Prize, I'd take first, second, AND fourth place!"
"Oh, Makoto. You're so eager to split things in half, aren't you? But it's no use. It's just no use... If you try to split something that can't be split, you'll end up feeling like YOU'RE the one being split."
"Knocking down your headmaster's door? What kind of war on education are you trying to start here!? You seriously don't wanna piss me off. You have any idea how much bacteria lives on a single bear claw?"
"Etch this on the walls of your brain, okay? When you do something to me, I do it right back... An eye for an eye, a fang for a fang..."
"As long as you're human, there will always come a point where you wish you could do things differently. Even a baseball player in the major leagues... Even a soccer player touring Europe... Even a famous singer who started her career as a backup dancer on a sketch comedy show... She makes a brilliant debut, but instead of going for more, she marries some third-rate actor and retires. Every human has regrets, has things they'd like to go back and change. But I don't! Cuz I'm a bear."
"Sakura came to a most regrettable end without even getting the chance to finish things with me... Which, thank God for that! It saved me the trouble of having to go through with our little fight. Cuz even for someone like me, it would've been no mean feat to take down a behemoth like that!"
"Oh, I've just recently discovered the power...of emoticons! Like, no matter how awful something is, if you toss in a smiley face, it turns positive! For example... You're at a picnic and you find a dead body! XD And how about the reverse? No matter how great something is, if you put in a sad face, it makes it look super negative! For example... Do you have a hundred friends? T_T"
"I'm not filthy! I didn't do anything. Did I falsify evidence? Did I affect the outcome of the Class Trial? The case played out between you and you alone. You were the ones jerking each other around. Heck, even if the will *had* factored in, it still woulda been between you guys. So what's the problem!? This is all part of the production process! Okay, and...scene! Cut! And isn't it just so unfortunate? Killing yourself is just so final, ya know? You can never hear the rest of their story. The truth is lost in darkness. Gives me the willies...!"
"She died so you guys wouldn't try to kill each other, but you almost ended up doing it anyway! Thanks to you, her death had no purpose at all!"
"But anyway, are you sure about that? This killing game is a competition between all of *you*, remember? Your enemy...is each other."
"Huh? You were friends with a laptop? That's pretty pathetic. What's next, friends with a basketball!?"
"Experiencing a meaningless death is so soothing! It makes me remember that every low can get even lower!"
"It makes your brain rumble and tumble, huh? It makes you so mad you don't even friggin' know, huh!? That's the whole point, STUPID! It's to get back at all of you for hardening your resolve!"
Chapter 5:

"Stop trying to blame everything on me!"
"Of course, even in the outside world, people die bloody, gruesome deaths every day! So it's not really a big deal! Just keep your chin up and keep on livin', soldier!"
"But you're not a little kid, right? You're too old to go running through sprinklers anyway. ...Or do you have some kind of water fetish!? I'm gonna tell everyone! Ahh-hahaha!"
"Such an eco-friendly creation is vital for the future growth of a healthy society!"
"Your teacher had such faith in you... And this is how you repay me? With betrayal? Reality is filled with so much hardship, isn't it? No wonder people run away into their fantasies..."
"Whether I'm a mademoiselle or a dudefella? But in the bear kingdom, there IS no male or female!"
"Every day is peaceful. Every day is joyful. Happy days from the time you wake up to the time you go to sleep. Wishing only for those unchanging, unending happy days, days of boredom repeating forever and ever. No abnormalities as far as the eye can see. Life without the tiniest speck of abnormality... If the world were like that, I'd consider *that* pretty damn abnormal."
"Of course I'm different! Evolution is perfectly natural! After all, I've been hibernating for two years already... Oh yeah, that's it. Puhuhu... The look on your faces right now is sublime! That's what I wanted to see—the moment you went from hope to despair..."
"Why would a bear pretend to be dead? You're the ones who should pretend to be dead when you see a bear! I mean, that's totally laughable! It's make me laugh! I'm gonna laugh now! A-ha-ha-ha! And that's that. Well, it's almost time to cut off your past so full of hope, and begin to despair at the future ahead of you! I want you to all have way more fun in this killing game!"
"Get out of here? Are you still obsessed with getting out of here? How do you not get it!? There IS no getting out of here! And besides... This life isn't all bad ya know! I mean, there's stuff you won't like about life no matter where you are!"
"That kind of overconfidence is a major weakness in your crisis management system, you know that?"
"Everything has a meaning, you know... All those hints I gave you, all those tantalizing tidbits about the school's mysteries... Even me luring you here right now... Why would I do any of that without a reason? It was all for my captive audience—to show them true despair like they'd never seen it before! I became the director of a despair-based production! This is the ultimate reality show! The best in despair entertainment!"
"Sure, some people might yell at their TV to try and warn you. But who would actually come here to help? Don't you think that's possible? I don't really know personally though, so whatever!"
"I'll leave the next Monokuma File right here. Everyone give it all you've got, okay!? Okay! Things are gonna get pretty crazy from here on out! You're in for a heck of a ride...! I can't wait...! I can't wait!"
"Time is utterly silent, and yet it constantly assaults us—organisms, the earth, natural phenomena... It damages us little by little, until the end. You should really think about that."
"If you wanna fight, do it at the Class Trial! You need to save some of the fun for later, right?"
"Ahahahaha! We're this far into the game, and *now* you decide to blame me? Stop wasting time! Stop wasting energy! You really think yiur little trick is gonna work!?"
"But it's still not enough... I'm still not satisfied! I'm still gonna bring despair to the rest of you—bring despair to the entire world...! Puhuhu... Puhuhu... Puhuhu... Puhuhu... Puhuhu..."
Chapter 6:

"When you learn the whole truth...what kind of despair will you show me?"
"Imagine how depressed everyone would get if the school mascot just up and stopped moving!"
"Now, then, when, doesn't matter! Failure can strike anywhere, anytime! That's what failure IS, right!?"
"For anything that has a start, there has to be an end. And if the end comes, then that means it's time for a fresh start. There is no night that doesn't have a dawn... Although that dawn is totally pitch-black! There is no storm that won't eventually end... Of course, then that leads to drought! But as I said, every end is the promise of a new beginning. Which is why I'm sure we'll get to meet again. Because the end is only the beginning! Anyway, let's get started! The beginning of the end of the Class Trial!"
"This final Class Trial is gonna be slathered in pitch-black despair! Climaximum sorrow! If there was a Mr. Fair Guy Universe contest, I'd take home the tiara every year! I'm gonna win this game super fair and square! And I'll make sure everyone watching at home knows... ...that despair is mightier den de hope."
"Of course not! Bears never go back on their word!"
"Fear is only possible where hope is possible. I only have despair, so fear is an alien concept to me."
"Did you really think the story would end once we reached the climax of the case? Wrong! There's still plenty more to go!"
Epilogue:

"Kehehe... Interesting... Things are getting veeery interesting indeed. Puhuhu... Puuhuhuhuhuhuhu! Like I said at the beginning...I'm not a teddy bear. I am Monokuma... And I am your—I am this school's...headmaster!"
Creation and development 
Danganronpa 1 Character Design Profile Monokuma
Monokuma is based on the idea of guilty (黒, literally "black") and innocent (白, literally "white"). His first beta design showcased him resembling an anatomy model commonly used in science courses. His "white" and "black" sides were originally a fully skinned side and one that exposes muscle and organs. As the style of the game changed, the character was made cuter and he became a teddy bear instead. Another beta showcases Monokuma similarly to how he is now with the exception of his bellybutton, the addition of paws, and a slimmer body. His current design doesn't show his claws.

Name 
Monokuma's name is a combination of the romanization of "monochrome" (モノクローム, monokurōmu), referencing his black and white color scheme, and クマ (kuma), the Japanese word for "bear".

Alternate 
In Danganronpa IF, it is revealed that Chihiro Fujisaki created Monokuma's software after the characters' memories are restored. However, this event takes place in an alternate timeline, and so may or may not be true.

Monokuma also appears in Danganronpa 1 (Trial Version) and Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) as the headmaster of the academy and the host of the mutual killing games. Monokuma first appeared in the gymnasium when the protagonist arrives where he introduces himself and talks about the killing game that is about to happen. Monokuma also appears in the Class Trials along with the students.

Monokuma also appeared in School Mode. Similarly to the original game, Monokuma makes an announcement as he does in the main story, however he declares that he is currently at a loss on what to do since he has forgotten to create "backups" for himself, and therefore cannot truly begin the group's "School Life". Although all the students are confused and reluctant to go along with Monokuma's words, he reminds the group that the door is sealed and that there is currently no way to leave. Monokuma then announces that in order to escape, the students must work together to create backups based on his specifications. After he leaves, the students all reluctantly agree to go along with Monokuma's orders since there was no telling what could happen if they refuse. After reaching the 51st day, if the player manages to build every backup assigned, the students will all gather around Monokuma, who yells at them for making a "backup" that doesn't even look like him. Out of anger and frustration, Monokuma decides to punish Makoto, saying that it would "motivate" the other students to do a better job next time, but the "backup" suddenly comes to life, introducing itself as Usami. After a small argument, Usami attacks Monokuma until he agrees to release the group and gives them the escape button before disappearing.

List of Appearances 
GameAnimeLight NovelsMangaSongsStage Plays
DISTRUST (Scrapped)
Danganronpa 1 (Trial Version): Major
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc: Major
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair: Major
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls: Mentioned
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony: Major
Danganronpa: Monokuma no Gyakushū: Major
Danganronpa: Unlimited Battle: Major
Cyber Danganronpa VR The Class Trial: Major
His original Japanese voice actress Nobuyo Ōyama is popular from her voice acting of Doraemon, which Spike Chunsoft purposely made Monokuma sound like. Due to her battle with dementia, she retired from voice acting, with her last in-game role being Cyber Danganronpa VR.
Monokuma also shares some similarities with Zero lll from Zero Escape including that they are highly advanced technologies structured after animals that are intermediaries behind the mastermind and the players.
Another thing that should be noted is that both of them have highly erratic and ecstatic personalities, though occasionally lower their voices in threatening remarks. They are also voiced by TARAKO, which was likely cast in reference to Zero III since both Kotaro Uchikoshi, and Kazutaka Kodaka are known friends.
Another similar character to Monokuma is Billy the Puppet from the Saw series. Both act as avatars to the masterminds behind their violent games, both have a black, white, and red color scheme, both revel in giving their victims a tiny chance of survival (although Billy tends to be more genuine about it than Monokuma), and both make use of elaborate traps meant to inflict grisly, ironic deaths on their victims.
It should also be noted that Danganronpa was originally going to have a more horror look.
In Chapter 4 of the second game, it is revealed that Monokuma and Usami both hate and are afraid of mice.
This is another reference to his resemblance to Doraemon, who is terrified of mice ever since a robotic mouse gnawed off his iconically-absent cat ears.
This trait is later revealed to have an important role in the story; it's a trait given to the Observer which makes sure they can't enter the Nezumi Castle, which would act as a hiding place for the students if the Observer went rogue and contains the password to escape the program. After Monokuma stole Usami's role as the Observer, he inherited her fear of mice, meaning it's a trait he doesn't normally possess.
In one of the instances of "Monokuma Theater" in Chapter 4, Monokuma speaks in morse code. Translated, the message reads "BE SURE TO DRINK YOUR KUMATINE", a reference to A Christmas Story.
It appears that Monokuma's "evil" left eye is meant to be similar to the symbol located on the front of Hope's Peak Academy's insignia. It is later shown in Danganronpa 3: Despair Arc, upon arriving at the school's gates, Junko took a glance at the Hope's Peak insignia and incorporated part of it while designing Monokuma.
As seen in varios promotional beta art, Monokuma was probably going to appear in Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls and have a major role in the game as he is seen running away from Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa.
In the beginning of the second game's second Class Trial, after the students discuss the murders which took place in Hope's Peak Academy and inspired the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case, Monokuma and Monomi (who is tied up next to his seat) get caught up in a small discussion over how violent high school students have become nowadays. The humor behind this little exchange stems for the fact that Monokuma and Monomi's voice actresses, Nobuyo Ōyama and Takako Sasuga, respectively, are both senior voice actresses who are best known for the roles they have portrayed in some of Japan's most famous, long-running animated shows since the 1970's.
Monokuma's English voice actor, Brian Beacock, also voiced Monosuke.
In the end of the fifth chapter of the second game, Monokuma decides, apparently on a whim, to execute his "adoptive little sister" Monomi along with Chiaki Nanami - after the latter's words motivate Monomi to "finish off" Monokuma by grabbing onto him and self-destructing repeatedly (a plan that was, however, prone to fail as Monomi had around 10 spare copies at the time while Monokuma had novemdecillion (10^60) - claiming that he "suddenly remembered that he's an only child" and that he has no reason to keep someone who does nothing but constantly interfere with his plans around. This is very reminiscent of how Junko killed her twin sister Mukuro for the sake of her personal devices - a decision Junko later admits to have made on a whim as well.
01-21
Monokuma in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent.

Monokuma is Kazutaka Kodaka's favorite Danganronpa character, because he is the easiest to write and because he can say whatever he wants to.
Monokuma appears as a guest character in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent. His Max ATK and Max HP are 8600. His weapon is Monokuma sword and his weapon's ability is doubled attack power. His deathblow is called "Blade of Monochrome", a dash attack which causes medium damage to the enemy.
Monokuma appears in Mystery Chronicle: One Way Heroics as one of three designs available for the Ultimate Student class, alongside Makoto and Komaru.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Monokuma the most popular Danganronpa V3 Monokuma Unit.
Monokuma is a guest character in Conception II: Children of the Seven Stars, featuring as a DLC boss.
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony, Monokuma is revealed to hate Sonic the Hedgehog with passion, seemingly jealous of his fame. In November 3rd 2017, Sonic the Hedgehog's official Twitter page answered to Spike Chunsoft about Monokuma's outburst, with Sonic, Doctor Eggman and Shadow the Hedgehog's comments. Doctor Eggman, of course, agrees with Monokuma's opinion while Sonic quotes Danganronpa's famous "you've got that wrong" catchphrase.

Makoto is around 19 years old in the first game, though he believed himself to be 17 because of the memory loss. By the end of Danganronpa 3, he is a few years older and in his early twenties, around 21 at least.

Makoto has a rather thin and petite build, being shorter than almost all of his classmates. He has spiky, desaturated brown hair with a prominent ahoge, and washed-out hazel eyes. He wears a zipped-up dull green hoodie with a red stripe along the zipper, an open black jacket with gold buttons over the hoodie, black jeans, and red sneakers with white toes.

Makoto's hoodie has a logo of a red gas mask in a circle printed on the back of the hood, and the zipper goes all the way up to the top of the hood. He wears a pin shaped like a four-pointed star overlaid on a crescent moon; this is pinned to the lapel of his jacket.

After joining the Future Foundation, Makoto is seen wearing a black suit. In Danganronpa 3, it appears that Makoto had cut his hair, as it is considerably shorter, however this is actually revealed to just be a part of his new design. He also looks more mature, though still has a bit round face for his age. After he becomes a new headmaster, he wears a black suit and a beige tie, as well as a dark blue sweater vest with a white shirt underneath.

Though never seen in the games, the official art book shows that he has white trunks with lucky star pattern and no intention to show them to others, humorously referencing the bonus modes and free-time events.

Personality
According to himself, Makoto is a very ordinary person, to the point that he feels a bit insecure about it. His most distinguishing feature is his unusual optimism.

Makoto is very kind, supportive and forgiving, though sometimes slightly naive. He is friendly, polite and a lot more down-to-earth than the other students. This is possibly the reason why he is capable of approaching and befriending them in Free Time sequences, even the most antisocial such as Byakuya Togami and Toko Fukawa.

Junko refers to Makoto as a "herbivore man", which means that he is likely to be the passive one in a relationship; this is reinforced in his conversations with others. He is also a bit jumpy at times and quite easily pushed around by some other characters such as Byakuya. However, even though he is sometimes a bit of a pushover, he is also capable of being a very determined and charismatic speaker.

Makoto is a firm believer in hope, having a positive attitude about the future, no matter the bad situation in the present. He is also a pacifist, as he believes that killing and violence isn't the answer. While he dislikes despair, believing it to be a corrupting and negative emotion which cannot benefit the world, he is very forgiving towards those who fell into despair, such as the Remnants of Despair, believing them to be victims of Junko and not inherently evil.

The only person he genuinely dislikes appears to be Junko, the True Ultimate Despair, and he considers her his enemy. However, even in her case, he felt that she didn't need to die and tried to reason with her when she was about to execute herself.

Makoto is respected by many people as the Ultimate Hope, though he himself is very humble and even a bit embarrassed of the title. In Danganronpa Zero, it's mentioned that he has incredible strength inside, despite often appearing weaker on the outside. During hard times, he is shown to have the power to give hope for other people and affect their way of thinking. However, this is not always the case, as some people refuse to listen to him or simply do not accept his ideals. While being Ultimate Hope, he is also not immune to the effects of the Suicide Video.


Talents and Abilities
Ultimate Lucky Student
Makoto got his talent as the Ultimate Lucky Student by winning a lottery out of completely ordinary students, which led to him joining Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Lucky Student. In addition to this, he was caught up in a bizarre series of events on the day of his selection which ended up catching a jewel thief and burning the selection ticket. Following the fifth trial, just before Makoto's execution can be completed, Alter Ego suddenly appears and is able to prevent Makoto from dying by opening up a door on the floor. He is then rescued by Kyoko, going on to defeat Junko herself and survive the whole ordeal.

Makoto's luck also comes into play during the events of the Final Killing Game, saving him from multiple dangerous situations. While his luck isn't nearly as powerful as his predecessor's or Izuru Kamukura's, his luck pattern is different from those two, and is difficult for Junko to analyze and predict. Thus, Junko predicted that he could possibly ruin her perfect layout plan, which ironically also made Junko allow him to live for the Killing School Life.

Ultimate Hope
Makoto discovers his true talent as the Ultimate Hope during the sixth and final trial of the Killing School Life. Interestingly, unlike most other talents, Makoto being the Ultimate Hope isn't recognized by Hope's Peak Academy, but rather earned for defeating Junko, the True Ultimate Despair. Unlike Izuru Kamukura, who's Ultimate Hope comes from him being the embodiment of talent, Makoto's Ultimate Hope comes from his unusual amount of optimism and determination, which Makoto even comments on.

As the Ultimate Hope, Makoto proves to have an immunity to Junko's tactics, built to make people fall into despair. Combined with his luck being difficult for Junko to analyze, causes her to leave him alive because defying her would be despairful in its own right. Ultimately, Makoto’s talent aided him in defeating her by filling the other five remaining participants with hope, after they fell into despair over finding out about the state of the world they were in. Makoto is also able to convince others to act with hope simply by spreading his hope to them. When the surviving members of the game are filled with hope, they were persuaded to choose to leave the academy and go out and see what the world had in store for them. In addition, in Danganronpa IF, Makoto unwittingly convinced Mukuro Ikusaba, one of the Despair Sisters, to think of the world outside of Junko's plans to spread despair all over it.

Makoto has even been encouraged by his own hope multiple times, thanks to his friends. After finding out that Kazuo Tengan has been murdered by Kyosuke Munakata, Makoto begins to break down over the fact that he’s been unable to stop people from killing each other. However, Aoi, along with Miaya Gekkogahara (controlled by Monaca Towa), were able to cheer him up, saying that he has given them hope and that they're willing to shoulder his burden. Later, Kyoko tells Makoto that he shouldn't give up on hope, and that she'll always be there for him if his power doesn’t prove to be enough. After her apparent death, Makoto was able to use his and Kyoko's hope in order to convince Kyosuke to join him and combine their hopes together.

Makoto believes that hope is infectious. True to his words, Makoto's effort in defeating Junko, protecting the Remnants of Despair in the Neo World Program, and his firm ideals and optimism eventually become fruitful as he could overcome all despairs at the end of his adventure in Hope's Peak Academy Saga.

In other languages
Makoto's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc, Danganronpa: The Animation, and Danganronpa: Another Episode.

Ultimate Lucky Student
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「幸運」	Super High School Level Good Luck
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"幸運"	Super High School Level Luck
中文超高校级的"幸运"	Super High School Level Luck(DRtA)
FrançaisLe Chanceux Ultime	Ultimate Luck (DRV3)
Deutsch Super-Glückspilz	Super-Lucky Devil (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Fortunato Liceale	Super High School Level Lucky Person
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Suertudo	Super High School Student Level: Lucky (DRtA)
Ultimate Hope
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「希望」	Super High School Level Hope
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"希望"	Super High School Level Hope
中文超高校级的"希望"	Super High School Level Hope(DRtA)
FrançaisUltime Espoir	Ultimate Hope (DRtA)
Deutsch Super-Hoffnung	Super-Hope (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Speranza Liceale	Super High School Level Hope
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Esperanza	Super High School Student Level: Hope (DRtA)
한국어초 고교급의희망	Super High School Class Hope(DR:AE)
‪中文(台灣)‬超高中級的希望	Super High School Level Hope(DR:AE)
Keen Intellect
Throughout the series, Makoto has proven to be quite intelligent noticing contradictions in peoples testaments that both Byakuya and Kyoko missed. He was able to decipher Kyosuke's NG code based on the fact he hasn't opened a door since the killing game began. Makoto then went on to use this NG Code to his advantage, setting up a plan to trap Kyosuke so that he can speak with him and subsequently convinced him to join his side.

History
Prior to the Tragedy
Makoto lived a normal life with his parents and little sister, Komaru. They also had a dog during his childhood. Although sometimes he didn't get along with his sister, he had a close relationship with Komaru. The two watched TV and shared thoughts on manga together.

In a typical day with Makoto and his family, his mother would always watch the same talk show at lunchtime, and his dad wouldn't shave his beard on Saturday when he didn't have work.

In middle school, Makoto was in the same class with Sayaka Maizono. He found a lost crane and rescued it; this act of kindness caught her attention, and that was how she remembers him even years later. It's implied that Makoto had a crush on her, but they never talked due to them being in different social standards. Later, he went to Dusk High School.

Makoto had normal school, normal friends, and a normal family. He was pretty much the textbook example of a normal high school student.

Makoto was selected to attend Hope's Peak Academy's Class 78th through winning a random lottery, and on August 20, 2010, Makoto visited a forum and looked up information about his future classmates.

Makoto Naegi Secret File
The day when Makoto was selected to attend Hope's Peak Academy seemed like an ordinary day at first.

Makoto was going home from school and he was in a cheery mood thanks to the clear weather. He had a feeling that something good might happen to him. One thought occurred to him - maybe he should take the long way home. He thought about doing something different than usual.

Makoto passed by a park, and saw a group of his friends trying to decide who to send to the convenience store in a game of rock-paper-scissors. They invited Makoto to join the game, and although Makoto would've usually refused it (he didn't know more than half of the people anyways), he felt that he might as well do something different in this case as well. Plus - there were about 10 people in the group. He didn't think losing was a big possibility. Yet he lost on the first round. Everyone except for him put out rock, while he played scissors. His friends were astonished at just how unlucky Makoto was, but sent him off to the convenience store to buy them snacks and drinks regardless.

Ten minutes later, Makoto was struggling with the two heavy bags filled with the stuff he got from the convenience store. He tried to distract himself by thinking of the music show that'll be on TV tonight - featuring Sayaka Maizono. Yet as his mood began to improve, misfortune struck again. Both of the plastic bags tore open at the same time, spilling their contents all across the pavement. A few minutes passed and Makoto finished collecting all the cans and bags, but wondered for a moment, as he felt like the stuff he managed to gather was less than what he had started out with. He looked around and spotted an old man sitting on the bench. The old man slowly bent down and picked up a can of coffee that rolled to a stop at his feet, opened it up and drank it. That can of coffee belonged to Makoto - yet the old man said he felt that it was natural to drink it since it ended up right in front of him. Makoto was flabbergasted at this incredulous excuse, and revealed to the old man that he seemed to be having a very unlucky day, complaining that he didn't do anything bad enough to deserve this streak of misfortune. The old man laughed and told Makoto that he didn't believe in karma at all. He'd seen plenty of evil people be blessed with fortune, and plenty of kind people suffer all sorts of misfortune. In the end, he says, luck isn't something that a man can control, no matter how much talent one has or how hard one works. He suggests for Makoto to just accept things the way they are.

After finishing their conversation, the old man returned the half-empty can of coffee back to Makoto and left, yet Makoto noticed that the old man had left his phone on the bench. He called out to the old man, who was already a distance away, but the old man seemed deaf to his calls. Makoto was conflicted - should he just ignore the phone and bring the snacks to the park, or should he leave those snacks and chase after the old man? He eventually decided on the latter, and rushed after the old man. His calls were once again drowned out - this time by the sound of a bus coming to a stop ahead. The old man immediately took off towards the bus station - Makoto panicked slightly and upped his own pace as well, and managed to hop into the bus after the old man in the nick of time. Makoto found the old man sitting in the back, and just as he was about to head there, his legs wobbled from the intense running and he lost his balance. Just before he crashed to the ground, he instinctively grabbed onto something. He heard the sound of something tearing and fell to the ground regardless. Makoto's sole consolation was that he managed to soften his fall somewhat by grabbing onto the mysterious object, but even that turned out to be simply a continuation of his misfortune.

Makoto happened to tear open a bag, from which spilled dozens of precious jewelry. The owner of the bag, someone looking like your average salaryman, immediately took out a knife and demanded everyone to freeze. The man was named Jutarō Akafuku. He was a robber who had been blessed with fortune for as long as he was alive. He was just done robbing a small jewelry shop and it all went smoothly, until he was involved in Makoto's misfortune, which could not be overcome even with his unnatural luck. Makoto experienced a minor breakdown thanks to the series of incredibly unlucky events. And to think it all started from him taking a long way home - he couldn't even wrap his head around everything. Correctly identifying Makoto as the cause of his recent misfortune, Jutarō decided to take him hostage and got the driver out of his seat by threatening to slit Makoto's throat if he didn't comply. Jutarō sat Makoto down in the driver's seat and used him as a hostage. In the meanwhile, he ordered the passengers in the bus to gather the scattered pieces of jewelry for him, promising their safety if they cooperated. However, just as someone finished gathering all the pieces, the old man, who had been faking sleep up till that point, sprang up and tackled Jutarō, pinning him on the ground. The old man was a kendo master.

At that precise instant, one thought ran through Makoto's mind particularly strongly - he must save the old man. Makoto feels willing to fight, but that was all for naught as the bus suddenly accelerated - Makoto had accidentally shifted the gears and stepped on the gas pedal. The bus lurched forward, throwing both Makoto and the old man off balance. The old man yelled at Makoto to step on the brakes, which Makoto did immediately, putting the bus to an abrupt stop that knocked him off balance once again. As Makoto was regaining his balance, his hand accidentally brushed over a button. It was a button to open the bus's door. Jutaro saw this as an opportunity and immediately hightailed it out of the bus. The old man was writhing on the ground in pain and shouted at Makoto to chase after the robber. Makoto couldn't believe that he'd ask someone of his stature to chase after a grown man - and capture him, no less. But for some reason, the entire bus seemed to be in agreement. Makoto sought out the bus driver for assistance - surely he would point out how ridiculous this situation was - but found the bus driver passed out.

Left with no choice, Makoto jumped out of the bus, only to crash into a postman who took note of the bus's erratic movements and came over to check. Both of them fell over - Makoto lamenting his bad luck again before noticing Jutarō riding the motorcycle that once belonged to the postman. Jutarō threatened Makoto by saying that he'd hate him for the rest of his life if he ended up being arrested. Jutarō started the engine and accelerated, believing that he could escape successfully. The postman shouted at him, and Makoto simply stood there unmoving. He was tired of the streak of misfortune that seemed to follow him at every step and decided to give up and do nothing. He just wanted to go back to his normal daily life as an ordinary high school student.

At that moment, the motorcycle that Jutarō was riding tipped over and threw the man across the street. The motorcycle spun wildly and hit a streetlamp before exploding in a shower of sparks and smoke, burning up the bag of letters that the postman had put on it. Makoto walked towards the accident site, unable to believe his eyes. What he found was a bent and broken can of juice - the cause for the motorcycle overturning, and one of that cans that Makoto accidentally spilled all over the streets just a while ago, and one that he wasn't able to locate when he searched for missing cans.

It was a series of impossible coincidences caused by Makoto's bad luck. And this situation was merely a result of Makoto's overwhelmingly bad luck managing to defeat Jutarō's careful planning and luck. It rendered all sorts of talent and hard work futile.

The letter addressed to that year's Ultimate Lucky Student burnt up in the accident. Hope's Peak Academy's headmaster, Jin Kirigiri, decided to hold the lottery again because he felt that the misfortune of having her admission letter burnt up disqualified her from being accepted as Ultimate Lucky Student. In fact, he already got the results of the draw - Makoto Naegi.

Meanwhile, Makoto was returning home after a long period of questioning by the police (and of course, he missed Sayaka's performance on the TV that he was looking forward to). He was dead tired, yet his nerves were still on the edge as he was wary of more unfortunate things happening to him on the taxi ride home. Fortunately, he arrived home rather smoothly - only to be greeted by enthusiastic Komaru, who told him that a letter from Hope's Peak Academy had arrived for him, accepting him as this year's Ultimate Lucky Student.

Makoto was overjoyed - he felt like all the misfortune that he'd experienced in the day had been overturned by this news, but little did he know that he was wrong.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc
Episode 05 - The Beginning of the End
Makoto is seen entering Hope's Peak Academy for the first time on a sunny March day. Unknowingly, Junko and Mukuro are behind him, plotting the first stages of their plan.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy
Makoto once again appears, talking to Sayaka as the rest of the students seal the school. Junko, considering his luck a threat, throws a wrench at him without anyone noticing, but Makoto slips on a piece of paper, causing the wrench to miss him. Junko (faking concern) and Sayaka ask if he's alright, which he confirms. As they walk away, Sayaka warns Makoto help would be hard to get should he get injured, but Makoto assures her that he's fine and that their ordeal will be over soon anyway.

Danganronpa Zero
Volume 2
Chapter 3
During his first year at Hope's Peak Academy, Makoto found an e-Handbook Yasuke Matsuda had dropped. When he went to the medical bay to return it, he bumped into Ryōko Otonashi, who asked him where Yasuke is. Makoto answered that the Ultimate Neurologist was probably out before trying to comfort Ryōko when she launched into a rant of frustration. Both students were confused by each other; Ryōko suspected Makoto of being a pervert behind his friendly demeanor, while Makoto found Ryōko to be a bit familiar. He introduced himself, explained what he came to do, and tentatively told Ryōko about a rumor regarding a student who has become forgetful. Hearing that, Ryōko continues to ask persistently if he used to know her, until he finally admits he did.

Suddenly, Misshiki Madarai appeared, grabbing Makoto's shoulders. He claims to be immortal and a survivor of the student council, looking for revenge for the student council as well as his own pride, willing to do anything. As the other two talk, Makoto is completely silent and terrified. Madarai then turns expressionless, as he remembers Makoto. He asks his name and seems to threaten him, and the other boy is very afraid. Madarai tells Ryōko that Makoto's head will be crushed in an "unfortunate accident" if she doesn't obey him and tell him what he wants. Madarai looks at her with intimidating eyes while Makoto pleads to her silently. Ryōko then calms down as she begins to mumble her usual mantra, that it has nothing to do with her. Both boys are confused by her words, and she simply answers that Makoto is unlucky, like he himself mentioned before. To prove his point, Madarai is about to kill Makoto, but suddenly his classmate Mukuro appears and saves him by attacking Madarai. Very relieved, Makoto thanks the girl, and she answers that she was simply helping her classmate and happened to pass by. Makoto continues his sincere thanks, much to Mukuro's embarrassment. Makoto thinks he's lucky because Mukuro happened to pass by.

After an awkward silence, Mukuro notices someone was hiding close by, and it turns out to be Yūto Kamishiro. He claims Ryōko is his client and he asks her to come with him. When Makoto says they should do something about Madarai on the floor, Mukuro says she'll do it. Makoto is worried and thinks she shouldn't do it all by herself. Yūto agrees they shouldn't tell the security department about it, as he and Ryōko are busy with their case. Yūto is angered by Makoto's hesitation and leaves with Ryōko in a hurry. As they leave, Makoto looks at Ryōko with determined eyes and Ryōko feels uneasy as she can suddenly feel an incredible aura coming from him. It is Ultimate level of hope, though she doesn't realize it and in a few minutes, she completely forgets his existence.

During the Tragedy
Makoto lived in the Academy happily, spending his happy times together for around one year until The Tragedy occurred. During The Tragedy, Jin planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. His plan was agreed by Makoto and the rest of the class, and they sealed the building together and lived peacefully inside it for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.

The True Ultimate Despair took away the Class 78th's school memories so they could participate in the Killing School Life.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Prologue - Welcome to Despair
Danganronpa 1 CG - Students at the School Entrance
Makoto is first seen in front of the building of Hope's Peak Academy. When he makes the move to enter the school and begin his new life, his vision suddenly becomes warped and blacks out. He wakes up in a classroom with bolted windows with little explanation beyond a crayon-written letter titled "Orientation Info".

Makoto soon finds out that he is not alone in what he assumes is the Academy; a group of other students were locked in with him, each telling a story with one thing in common: they all woke up in a classroom after losing consciousness when stepping inside the school grounds. Without any other options, Makoto joins the present students as they assemble and are introduced to Monokuma. Monokuma gave the students a harsh choice: either live in the academy forever, or kill one of the other students without being found out to "graduate".

Chapter 1 - To Survive
After Makoto woke up from getting knocked out during a scuffle in the assembly, Monukuma announced to all the students that he had prepared a "gift" for them. The "gift" ended up being a DVD containing an incentive personalized to each viewer: Makoto's DVD is of his sister and parents at home smiling at the camera wishing him luck, then suddenly cutting to the room destroyed and his family is shown missing. Sayaka reacted the worst out of all the students and fled the room in a panic; Makoto followed her and was able to calm her down by promising to keep her safe.

Unfortunately for Makoto, his promise to protect Sayaka was broken the very next morning. They had switched rooms for the night because of Sayaka thinking it would be safer, but when Makoto awoke and checked on her, he instead found her corpse in his shower. The overwhelming circumstantial evidence led Makoto to be blamed for the murder.

In Makoto's frantic quest to clear his name, he worked through numerous heated debates and collected evidence, eventually coming across conclusive proof that indicated Leon Kuwata might have been the one who killed Sayaka.

After Makoto arrived at the most logical conclusion of events that had transpired leading up to the murder, he had a brief but very intense debate with Leon. The latter was eventually found guilty of Sayaka's death, leading to Makoto's name being finally cleared from the murder. However, before anyone had a chance to fathom what was in store, Leon was then dragged off to his punishment by Monokuma.

After witnessing Leon's brutal execution-by-baseball-machine, Makoto angrily blamed Monokuma for ultimately causing Leon and Sayaka's deaths. His emotional outburst was, however, halted by Kyoko, after which Makoto remained sullen and silent.

Makoto would later learn from Kyoko that Sayaka's motive in writing her dying message could possibly have been to protect him, while regretting to have plotted for Makoto to be blamed for the murder. Makoto responded that he would shoulder the weight of both Sayaka's and Leon's death and live on, so their deaths would never be forgotten, and so that he could avenge their deaths by finding out who the mastermind was.

Chapter 2 - Boy's Life of Despair
Since the death of both Sayaka and Leon, Makoto, along with the others, seek for more clues in order to find a way to escape. However, Monokuma gave another incentive to the students, the students' most embarrassing and the deepest secrets. During the course of doing so, he witnesses another death which involved his friend, Chihiro Fujisaki, who was hung like a crucified figure nearby a blood message on the wall. With the assistance of Celestia Ludenberg and Mondo Owada's information about the clue, Makoto manages to clear both Byakuya's and Genocide Jack's name off the crime and finally pins Mondo as the culprit over Chihiro's murder.

Despite Kiyotaka Ishimaru's pleas which claimed that Ultimate Biker Gang Leader was innocent over the murder, Makoto solidifies the charges by noticing the changed gym rooms and the bloodied dumbbell. He, however, didn't anticipate that Mondo's reason to kill Chihiro was due to his jealousy and rage over Chihiro's strong determination to get rid of his weakness. After Mondo's execution, Makoto witnesses a sense of distrust among the group as they wondered who would be the next victim of the next murder.

Chapter 3 - A Next Generation Legend!
The next day, Makoto joins the surviving students as they gather for Monokuma's announcement. He is then shocked to learn that whoever graduates would be given ten billion yen, and grows frustrated as he realizes the intentions of the bear to turn them against each other. After the assembly, Makoto and the others gather in the bathroom after hearing Aoi exclaiming that she had seen Chihiro's "ghost" there.

Instead of seeing a ghost, however, Makoto and the rest of the students discover an AI programmed by Chihiro called Alter Ego, who was made to resemble its creator. Amazed and in awe, Makoto is filled with hope by their sudden advantage and remarks about how Chihiro has left a bright legacy for them. Later, Alter Ego turns up missing, leading led Makoto and the rest to meet a roadblock again as they learned from Byakuya that whoever stole Alter Ego was most likely a traitor. Makoto and the others then decide to search for the AI.

Makoto's search for Alter Ego comes to a halt as he hears Celestia's scream, claiming that she was attacked by a suspicious figure known as "Robo Justice". Celestia, stating that she has a clue, shows them a picture of the figure via Hifumi Yamada's digital camera. Worried that the culprit would hurt his friends again, Makoto then rushes to warn Kyoko and the others about the new threat, only to find an injured Hifumi instead. Once again, trying to find the others so that they would be informed of recent events, Makoto wanders around and discovers Kiyotaka's corpse lying on the floor.

After a period of investigating, a Class Trial begins with accusations against Yasuhiro Hagakure, who was the primary suspect. The debates go on and slowly, Makoto uncovers the truth and reveals that Celestia is the culprit of the murder. After saying the reasons why she killed their classmates, Makoto and the other students watch on as Celestia is executed.

Chapter 4 - All●Star●Apologies
After the 3rd Class Trial and Celestia's execution, Makoto asked Kyoko where she disappeared to during their search for their absent friends, Kyoko then tells Makoto that she discovered a secret room in the men's room on the second floor. Knowing that Makoto heads toward the secret room after the nighttime announcement.

Makoto discovers that behind the supply closet and finds shelves filled with many files and some old yearbooks, all covered in dust. Interestingly he found a file known as "Hope's Peak Academy Student Register", the only things that isn't coated in dust. When Makoto opens the file, he finds a single scrap of paper written "YOU MUST NOT LEAVE THIS PLACE". Makoto recognizes its words, but before he can remember anything, someone who wears a mask and a lab coat attacks him from behind and succeeds in making him lose consciousness.

In the aftermath, Makoto found that all the files in the shelves, and even the single scrap of paper, are gone. But Makoto decided to rest his head and body first, so he decided to head back to his room. However, when he reaches the first floor, he hears a noise in the gym and it's revealed that the noises were made by Sakura Ogami and Monokuma who were fighting all night, discussing about "Mole" and "Hostage".

Makoto could feel the unease of the confrontation which he assumes that Sakura has hidden something; it's revealed later that Sakura is the mole among the groups. Sakura commits suicide to prevent the dispute among the groups. And her sacrifice was not in vain as the others stop fighting each other.

Chapter 5 - 100 Mile Dash; Pain of a Junk Food Junkie
After witnessing his friends falling one by one, executed and murdered, Makoto vowed to his late classmates that he would find the clue to escape this nightmare so that their deaths would not be in vain by finding the real culprit behind the inhumane game.

While in his sleep, Makoto is suddenly attacked by a masked figure but is saved by Kyoko. Before he checked the school for more mysteries, Makoto finally found the perpetrator who was almost responsible for his assassination, only to find that person dead.

During the investigations, Makoto also found the control room, only accessed by Monokuma and decides to investigate. Later he realized that Monokuma is much like a mass-produced robot and he is indeed surprised that all the commotion they had been through were.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Makoto Naegi and Kyoko Kirigiri climbing the ladder (1)
Makoto and Kyoko escaping via stairs from the garbage disposal room

As the clues pointed to Kyoko, Makoto refused to accuse her of the murder. This decision sadly didn't help him at all as he is assumed to be the murderer of Mukuro instead. Even with his plea for innocence, the execution is already going underway by Monokuma as Makoto has been voted guilty even though he didn't commit the murder.

In the middle of his execution, Makoto is suddenly rescued by Alter Ego, who he and the others thought were destroyed as the replacement for Sakura's "execution". Alter Ego was able to hack into the system (thanks to Makoto hooking the AI up to the school's data server earlier) and rescue Makoto by stopping the slammer and opening a hole beneath him that sent him to the basement. Having escaped death, Makoto wakes up in the basement and decides to conserve his energy.

Makoto is later awoken by Kyoko falling into the basement to rescue him. She ends up using the Master Key she found in the principal's office and they both make their way back up by climbing a tall ladder. On the way up, Kyoko tells Makoto that she remembers parts of her past and who she is. She then reveals her identity as the "Ultimate Detective", and informs him that she came here to find her father, the principal, who abandoned her when she was a child.

Chapter 6 - Ultimate Pain, Ultimate Suffering, Ultimate Despair, Ultimate Execution, Ultimate Death
After to his miraculous return with Kyoko, Makoto is reunited with the other students (In the game, the other students still think that Makoto was responsible of killing Mukuro until he and Kyoko convinced them that it was a trap created by Monokuma, who was in fact the true killer; In the anime, however, the other students realized that Makoto was innocent, as well as Monokuma being the true killer and breaking his own rules, when Alter Ego saved Makoto from his execution. This caused them to feel guilty for not trusting Makoto and nearly killing him for a crime he didn't commit. However, Makoto forgives them, saying that it was Monokuma's fault for breaking the rules and trying to make them all despair).

Kyoko then explains on his behalf that the trial was restarted due to some circumstances (namely, her sharp retaliation over Monokuma's taunts). Throughout the course of the investigation, Makoto learns about their past via the DVD and is confused that all of the students, including himself, agreed to stay in the academy during their interview with the former principal of Hope's Peak Academy, Jin Kirigiri; they began to realize that they were actually having amnesia before the sadistic game started and they had been staying in the academy for two years.

As the true perpetrator was revealed as the real Junko, Makoto is surprised over the reason behind Junko's sadistic survival game. During the course which almost all students were stunned over the truth; where details partially told by Genocide Jack (who knew the truth better than her other personality), only Makoto managed to analyze the course of event during his past journey in the academy, behind every offer and lure from Junko (mostly based on despair):

Sayaka's interpersonal reasons to frame Makoto by murdering Leon out of desperation to leave the school and save her idol group (though Leon instead retaliated and caused her plan to backfire, she then wrote Leon's name in her own blood, which was thought to be the number 11037 due to it being written backwards, as a redemption for her betrayal).
Mondo's anxiety about his secret (his brother's death) exposure in order to keep his motorcycle gang together and accidentally kills Chihiro due to his uncontrolled rage and jealousy over Chihiro's inner strength.
Celestia's greed for the 10 billion yen so she can buy a European castle, including her fantasy about vampire butlers, would lead to her treachery to the group by killing both Kiyotaka and Hifumi.
Sakura's suicide due to her position as a mole worked for Junko and caused the conflict and distrust behind the group. (Though at first, it seemed that her suicide was caused by the beatings from Yasuhiro and Toko, as Genocide Jack, it was later revealed that the act was her last ditch effort to keep the group together from turning against each other).
At the climax of the trial, Makoto and the rest were stunned by Junko's revelation about Hope Peak Academy's true plan, which was to plant ultimate despair into the world. Junko then again twisted the rules in an attempt to bring out despair from the survivors. In that attempt, she stated that if they chose to live a life in which they can survive, then Makoto would have to be executed. Yet as persistent as always, Makoto refused to give in and tried to persuade his friends that hope still exists in their hearts.

He convinced Yasuhiro that staying in the school, chained by their own despair, isn't really living at all. Yasuhiro then realized that living means moving forward, even if it's hard and scary; thus, he renewed his desire to leave the school and find his future.
He convinced Aoi that they aren't just living for themselves, but also for their deceased friends. Aoi then realized that Sakura, her deceased friend, would say that living means going against despair and walking through hardship; thus, she decided to move forward in memory of her fallen classmates.
He convinced Byakuya that the Togami Family never succumbs to despair and he, as the heir, must rebuild it as many times as he can without giving up. Byakuya realized that the Togami Family isn't dead since he is still alive. This made him decide to keep his word and have the mastermind, Junko, defeated and dead (although he insisted that he wasn't doing this for Makoto).
In the game, Jack told Makoto that she doesn't really care whether she stays or leaves, so as long as Byakuya comes with them. In the anime, Jack decided to leave as well after seeing Byakuya convinced to leaving the school and ending the mastermind's life.
Finally, Makoto convinced Kyoko that her father never gave up nor gave into despair; if there is no hope, then they'll become the new hope. Kyoko realized that her father would never sacrifice Makoto for the sake of his own life; she also realized that she could understand her father even if blood was the only trait they shared. With this revelation, Kyoko announced that Makoto himself had a hidden Ultimate talent: as someone with the ability to defeat Ultimate Despair, he could be called the Ultimate Hope.
With his classmates' support around him, Makoto managed to defeat Junko; much to his surprise, she gleefully accepted her defeat. He tried to dissuade Junko from killing herself, but she eagerly relished the chance to experience the absolute despair of failing her master plan at the very end, leading her to execute herself in her very own special punishment (The Ultimate Punishment). With Junko gone, the survivors were finally free from the strings of the Killing School Life.

Epilogue - Goodbye Despair Academy
Their torments finally over, Makoto then opened the door that led to the exit while beginning to wonder if his doubts and insecurities remain in his mind after his gruesome journey in the academy. In his heart, however, Makoto remarks that as long he refuses to give in, hope will spread throughout the world and as long he wields hope, he would make the impossible possible.

Joining the Future Foundation
Makoto and the others survived together in the apocalyptic world until they were found by the Future Foundation. They decided to join Future Foundation to fight against despair and Future Foundation helped them to recover their school memories. Makoto became a member of the 14th Division. Despite not being a branch head, his exploits are famous enough that he was recognized by the audiences of Serial Killer Gambling.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls
Chapter 2 - Legend of the Revolution
Makoto was seen in the end of chapter 2 after Komaru and Toko succeeded in contacting Future Foundation on top of Towa Tower.

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's Battlefield
Komaru and Toko contacted Future Foundation after they defeat Jataro Kemuri, one of the Warriors of Hope's main members. Makoto is the one who responds to the device, surprising Komaru. She asked about their parents' condition, but Makoto didn't know about their current situation and where were they. Makoto explained that he joined the Future Foundation, and was surprised that Komaru was with Toko who had suddenly disappeared. It was revealed that Toko went to rescue Byakuya without any orders from Future Foundation. Komaru who realized that both Makoto and Toko already knew each other, and she wondered why Toko didn't tell her anything.

Makoto was glad that his sister was with Toko, but Toko was mainly concerned with Byakuya being put in danger. Makoto later explained to Komaru about his, Toko's and Byakuya's time trapped in the Killing Game at Hope's Peak Academy, and how all three of them had joined Future Foundation. Makoto's explanation awed Komaru who lauded the survivors for fighting and moving forward unlike herself. Makoto ended up on the receiving end of Toko's jab about him becoming Ultimate Hope and pulling everyone together. Komaru remarked on Makoto's growth, saying that Makoto had become more mature and reliable than he used to be.

Makoto apologized to Komaru about her imprisonment, explaining that she, like other captives who were related to Class 78th, were used as motives for Class 78th's students to turn against each other. He also explained that after a long period of fruitless searching for the captives, they had received an anonymous tip only days prior, told that Captives from the Killing Game were being held in an apartment tower in Towa City. He explained that that was the reason Byakuya mounted the rescue mission in Towa City, not expecting that Towa City would simultaneously collapse into chaos and for Byakuya to end up missing. Makoto was alarmed when Junko Enoshima's name was mentioned by Toko in reference to the girls running into the Warriors of Hope; the Warriors were catching, releasing, and then hunting Captives bound to wristbands they made, that self-destruct when their wearers exit Towa City, and that Byakuya's capture was a deliberate trap set by the Remnants of Despair to lure the Future Foundation into action at Towa City. Makoto believed that Junko had foreseen this desperate situation from the very beginning.

Toko forbids Makoto from rescuing Komaru as it would put Byakuya in danger and declares if he came, she would take Komaru's life. Panicked, Makoto attempts to calm Toko down and calls Komaru's name before the connection lost. Nagisa Shingetsu, the Warriors of Hope's replacement leader at the time after Masaru Daimon's "death", spotted them and scrambled their device by strengthening the jamming signals.

Epilogue - The Changing World We Made
Makoto was contacted by Byakuya, who proceeded to explain that Komaru has chosen to remain in Towa City of her own volition, then watched a handheld recording on Byakuya's device of Komaru explaining her reasons for remaining in Towa City (not specific, but likely referring to Toko). He remarked that Komaru had surprised him before and that he resolved to intervene directly in similarly drastic situations; this remark served as a retrospective explanation for Makoto trying to save the Remnants of Despair in Danganronpa 2.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair
Chapter 6 - This is the End; Goodbye Academy of Despair
When Future Foundation found the remnants of Ultimate Despair, Makoto protected them and decided to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program.

During the last trial, Monokuma summoned a fake Makoto to led the students to choose the "graduation" so Alter Ego Junko's could succeed her plan to create her "Junkoland."

However, Hajime Hinata knew that "Makoto" was the fake one. The real Makoto returned along with Kyoko and Byakuya to save the remaining students, and after much trouble was finally able to activate the Forced Shutdown.

Epilogue - The Day Before the Future
After Alter Ego Junko is seemingly destroyed in the Forced Shutdown sequence, Makoto, Byakuya, and Kyoko leave the island, hopeful that the Remnants of Despair had been rehabilitated, despite not being guided in the expected direction of "Hope" but a "Future".

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc
After returning from Jabberwock Island, Makoto was charged with the crime of treason for protecting the Remnants of Despair. Everyone who gathered for Makoto's trial was trapped and thrust into the "Final Killing Game" by Monokuma. Everyone is fitted with a strange bracelet that releases a sleeping potion at a fixed time. While asleep, the traitor in their midst kills a Future Foundation member. To survive, they'll have to ferret out the traitor and stop the killing.

Makoto's NG code is "Running in the hallway." However, it can be sidestepped by having other people run while carrying him, or by running inside a room.

Episode 01 - Third Time's the Charm
Makoto arrived at the rooftop of Future Foundation's off-shore facility, where Kyoko, Aoi, and Yasuhiro were already waiting for him. He has been arrested by Future Foundation due to his action that against their protocol and deceived them.

Arrived at the boardroom, Kyosuke Munakata requested Juzo to handcuff him. Juzo sarcastically apologized to Makoto for having to do this to the great "hero" who brought down Junko Enoshima. When Makoto tried to respond, Juzo punched him in the stomach, declaring that none of them deserved to be called heroes after the amount of their comrades they sacrificed. He continued to assault Makoto until Great Gozu asked him to stop, before threatening him with violence if he continues. When people in the boardroom began to argue, Kyosuke ordered them to calm down and temporarily suspended the board meeting so that Makoto can be treated for his injuries sustained from Juzo.

Chisa Yukizome visited with Makoto in a separate room to help disinfect his injuries. Makoto asked if she was a doctor, and Chisa revealed that she was the homeroom teacher of the Remnants of Despair. She asked why he wanted to protect them despite what they had done, and nods after hearing his answer. She said that they were right to call him the Ultimate Hope and said that, like Makoto, Kyosuke is also Future Foundation's hope. For that reason, she didn't disagree with Makoto's feelings but understood that Ultimate Despair can't be combated by just being nice, which is why Kyosuke's decisiveness is so important. She told Makoto that if he could try to understand Kyosuke it would make her happy, and she hoped that the two of them could combine their hopes for a greater hope.

Makoto and Chisa returned to the boardroom when the building attacked by an unknown enemy. Kyosuke who still suspect Makoto ordered Juzo to restrain him. As he and Kyoko confirmed that they were locked up inside the facility, all of them rendered to sleep after a sleeping gas cast inside the room.

Sometime later, Makoto woke up to find that he was wearing a wristband with a countdown timer, unsure of what it could mean. His thoughts were cut off by Monokuma's laughter, who then appeared on a monitor addressing the whole group. He stated that, as a reward for all of their hard work trying to combat despair, he was going to have them all kill each other. Makoto shouted at Monokuma, saying that he would never play his game again and that they wouldn't kill each other because they were comrades.

Kyosuke realized in a panic that Chisa wasn't in the room with them, and asked the group where she went. He and Makoto noticed the blood dripping from the ceiling and the two look on in horror to find Chisa's dead body draped over the room's chandelier. Monokuma cheerfully told Makoto that he had no say because the game has already started, and the weight of Chisa's corpse caused the chains rooting the chandelier to the ceiling to snap. Makoto watched Chisa's body in horror, eventually replay the same experience he had during the Killing Game of Class 78th.

Episode 02 - Hang the Witch
To make everyone stick together, Makoto told everyone to work together after Monokuma announced the rules of the Final Killing Game. He also wanted to find the attacker but unlike the others, he didn't want to kill them and instead suggested to restrained them somewhere. Juzo angered at Makoto's words, about to using violence against him. Aoi stood up for Makoto along with Ryota Mitarai. Juzo's violence resulting Daisaku Bandai's death who accidentally violated his NG Code (witnessing violence by participants).

Seeing this accident, Kyosuke decided to make everyone vote for the attacker and almost all of them pointed at Makoto. Despite not knowing if Makoto was truly the attacker, Kyosuke and asked him to cooperate as Juzo took out his knife to stab Makoto. Great Gozu stepped in and protect Makoto from Juzo's attack. Kyoko soon created a diversion using the fire extinguisher, allowing Makoto to escape from the boardroom along with Aoi.

In the hallway, Makoto can't catch up with her since his NG Code wasn't allowed him to run in the hallway. Seeing no other way, Aoi offered him to ride her on her back and tried to find a place to hide. Kyosuke managed to hold back Gozu's attack and catch up with Makoto and Aoi. Miaya Gekkogahara later came to their side and showed them a safe place to hide. Gozu quickly leaps and dropping the floor, slings over Makoto on his shoulder. At the last seconds, Makoto managed to close the door before Kyosuke's flying sword slashed him.

Makoto, Aoi, Miaya, and Great Gozu decided to barricade themselves in a room few minutes before the time limit hit. Makoto sits beside Aoi and tried to comfort her not to worry again since they will always be fighting despair together. Just before the sleep drug injected, Makoto wanted Aoi to believe in his luck.

Makoto woke up sometime later and found a trace of blood on his hands. When he looked at Aoi, he was very surprised and terrified seeing a knife stabbed on her chest.

Episode 03 - Cruel Violence and Hollow Words
Makoto was very shocked upon discovering Aoi's body. However, it turned out that her death was faked by the attacker as he saw Aoi awoke from her sleep. He found out that the knife was merely a toy and the splattered blood was came from tomato sauce. Later, they found out that the one who was killed by the attacker was Great Gozu.

Makoto was very sad and remembered Gozu's words to always have faith on his hope. Later, he and Aoi took down his body and Aoi put her jacket on Gozu's dead body in respect. Makoto planned to talk with everyone to cease the disputes between the Future Foundation members. Miaya then suggested him to use the intercom system of the facility.

On their way to the intercom room, Makoto noticed that Miaya turned in a circle when she met with an intersection and asked her if her NG Code didn't allow her to turn right. Miaya was surprised after Makoto revealed her NG Code, afraid that Makoto and Aoi already planned to kill her.

Makoto calmed her down, stating he would never hurt her and showing her his NG Code as well, immediately followed by Aoi, making Miaya referred them as her soul mates. When they heard someone was coming, Aoi and Miaya created a diversion so that Makoto can safely reach the intercom room. He left the scene and hoped for their safety.

Reaching the intercom room, Makoto announced via the speaker Great Gozu's death and the motive behind his action to protect the Remnants of Despair. He explained how he found them and took them into custody, knowing full well that they were the Remnants of Despair. He did this because he believed they must have once been normal students of Hope's Peak Academy, filled with hope until Junko Enoshima corrupted them into despair. He also explained how he'd hoped to rehabilitate the Remnants with the Neo World Program until Alter Ego Junko infected and messed with the program. He told that he abandoned the game and wanted to talk with everyone in the intercom room. He finally revealed his NG Code being not to run in the hallway and ended his speech.

The first one to came to the room was Kyosuke who broke the window using his sword. Makoto stands firm and said that he only wanted to talk with him. In the room, Kyosuke revealed his true intention to kill Makoto was to prevent the attacker who might be ended the Final Killing Game before they revealed their true identity and used Makoto's hope to corrupt people with greater despair. Kyosuke revealed his point of view of "hope", stating that no one can talk about hope before he experienced the true despair. Makoto angered by Kyosuke's words who said that the Killing Game he experienced before was merely a game for him. Unlike Makoto, he was outside the Killing Game, facing the Tragedy with his friends while Makoto trapped inside Hope's Peak Academy. In the last scene, Kyosuke was able to capture and tied Makoto.

Episode 04 - Who is a Liar
Makoto was tied inside the intercom room when Kyosuke announced to everyone that he will execute Makoto immediately. Kazuo Tengan, Aoi, and Miaya came to the scene to rescue Makoto. Kazuo believed that keeping Makoto alive is an important matter and truly believed that he is the Ultimate Hope whose hope could defeat despair. Makoto grabbed on to Miaya's wheelchair and started to escape.

Until they reached a point, Makoto and Aoi prevented Miaya from volunteering herself to stop Juzo in the hallway. Miaya insisted on going, saying that maybe she was already affected by Makoto's "hope".

Episode 05 - Dreams of Distant Days
Makoto and Aoi encountered with Juzo after he successfully knocked out Miaya. Makoto told Aoi to run but she refused and instead took a metal pipe and stood against the former Ultimate Boxer. As Miaya reactivated again by her controller, Monaca, she could distract Juzo's attention and once again Makoto jumped to Aoi's back and escaped from the scene.

Episode 06 - No Man is an Island
Makoto having a nightmare during his sleeping time. He dreamt that Kyoko was dead beside him with Kyosuke saying that her death was his fault, thinking that he could go on without sacrificing someone precious to him. He awoke and found himself still alive with Aoi and Miaya on his side. However, he worried about the third victim. Miaya then searched for the third victim via the security-camera system.

Makoto was shocked when Miaya discovered Kazuo's body. She cleared the fact that Kazuo was not killed by the attacker, but by Kyosuke Munakata judging from the slash wound on his neck. Makoto saw his dying message, "I trust the hope of the world to you", which Aoi stated that Kazuo referred to Makoto.

Makoto broke down and left speechless. The controller of Miaya, Monaca decided to encourage him and eventually pushed Makoto to bring a brilliant idea, that is to break the building's wall. Miaya suggested them to contact the Future Foundation on the outside and their signals reached Byakuya's place.

Makoto informed that he, Aoi and the others were trapped inside the off-shore headquarters and forced to participate in the Final Killing Game. To his surprise, Byakuya didn't know about the fact, proved that Monokuma was lying about the broadcast tot he worldwide of the Killing Game. In turn, Byakuya informed to Makoto that Kyosuke already sent his troops to annihilated the Remnants of Despair in Jabberwock Island regardless the outcome of the meeting. As the call ended, Makoto encouraged by Byakuya to stick together with his former classmates.

At the end of the episode, Makoto regained his confidence back and keep holding his faith to his friends and family.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair Girls
Waiting for Byakuya's call, Makoto and Aoi surprised when Komaru appeared on Miaya's computer screen instead of Byakuya. He was glad to see her sister was okay but then became worried as Komaru informed him that according to Monaca, one of the survivors of the Killing School Life might die because of him.

Episode 08 - Who Killed Cock Robin
Makoto and Komaru continue to discuss Monaca's information about someone who survived 'Big-Sis Junko's Killing Game' and they will die because of Makoto'. Makoto talks about how Komaru has grown mature and she requests he comes and gets her when the mess he's in is over. After the transmission ends, Miaya Bot begins to re-boot and Makoto realizes that this Miaya, is in fact, a robot. Aoi rushes him out of the room through a gap in the wall, reminding him that his NG code only states he can't run in the hallway's but they encounter Kyousuke around the corner and Makoto is frozen in shock. Miaya Bot, after her re-boot, steps in to aid Makoto and Aoi and gives them an opportunity to escape. Aoi boosts Makoto onto her shoulders and carries him away from the scene to find Kyoko.

Episode 09 - You are My Reason To Die
Makoto and Aoi soon find Kyoko who is discussing with Ryota how Makoto was her savior when she was in trouble, although she stops mid-sentence as soon as she notices a blushing Makoto and Aoi.

They all enter an unknown room to eat and drink before the time limit goes off, Makoto seems to be worried that his words don't seem to have much effect and that Togami might be in danger after Monaca's information on someone dying because of him. Kyoko gives him comforting support which invigorates him to keep doing his best.

Both Makoto and Ryota try to push a large object in front of the doorway before the sleeping drug comes into effect but they both fail to make it budge until Aoi moves it for them. Kyoko encourages Makoto one last time before the sleeping drug causes them to go unconscious.

Upon awakening, Makoto is pleased to find everyone survived although when he notices Kyoko motionless on the floor and finds her NG code has been set off he bursts into tears over realizing it was his fault that she got poisoned. Kyousuke cuts in over the intercom and explains to Makoto that Kyoko's NG code proves his platitudes are useless and requests another battle, over who's hope is worthy. At first, Makoto seems in shock but ends with a determined face through all his tears.

Episode 10 - Death, Destruction, Despair
Makoto recalled the time of when he became stuck in the trash disposal room after his execution failed, during the Killing School Life. He remembered when Kyoko came down to save him. After remembering this moment, looking at Kyoko again, he wiped the blood of her left eye onto his left-hand palm, determined to settle everything with Kyosuke. He walked to the door and told Ryota to wait for Aoi. Ryota wondered how Makoto could easily accept the fact that one of his dear friends died and isn't overly saddened by it. Makoto grimaces before turning around and replying with his smile, saying that he, of course still can't get over Kyoko's death but that she entrusted her hope to him and he has to fulfill her faith in him. Makoto tells Ryota that Kyoko kept him alive by not telling him her NG Code because she knew that he would do something reckless if she told him. So Makoto decides he has to keep moving forward, and his decision is supported by Aoi who states she 'believes in him'.

Makoto leaves the room and makes his way to the hallway, he begins to cry once more before wiping away his tears, stating that being optimistic is the only good trait he has. As Makoto continues down the hallway, he notices Miaya bot has been sliced in half and is automatically shocked at the immense power of Kyosuke. Makoto seeks to stop Kyosuke, while Kyosuke seeks to save Makoto. Soon afterward, Makoto arrived in the monitoring room and stated that he wouldn't hesitate anymore, and requests working together with Kyosuke to end the 'game'. This prompts Kyosuke to attack with all his might, finding Makoto's words useless. The Ultimate Hope dodged the opening strike and ran from the monitoring room, shutting the door behind him - Kyosuke simply broke one of the windows and gave chase. Makoto then lured him to a trap and he followed his quarry into a room, where he found that Makoto had flooded the ground with water, trying to electrocute him to death with a stray wiring. Kyosuke was fast enough to neutralize the tactic by using the heat from his katana, also injuring Makoto's leg with Kazuo's chuusen. However, the resulting steam cloud from the evaporating water bought Makoto enough time to escape once again.

Makoto hurries down the open hallway to the safety of another room, filled with debris. During his escape, Makoto found a fire hydrant and went into hiding to make a surprise attack. However, his surprise attack was easily thwarted by Kyosuke who followed the blood trail of his leg injury. He tossed the fire extinguisher aside and commented that Makoto had run out of luck - moments later, the fire extinguisher suddenly bursts from the build-up of foam behind it and hits Kyosuke in the back, giving Makoto a chance to attack, lunging at Kyosuke from the mist. After a short struggle, Kyosuke finally seemed to have Makoto at his mercy - however, he stopped the fatal swing of his sword at the last second. He had finally realized his quarry's true intention: trapping him in a room with a closed door being the only exit. As Makoto explained a moment later, Kyosuke's forbidden action was "opening doors"; if he killed Makoto, he would be trapped in the room.

The tired Makoto is slammed into the wall by Kyosuke who demands to know when he was first tainted with despair. Makoto then heard Kyosuke's revelation about what Kazuo had told him after their fight: any member of the Future Foundation could be the traitor, even Chisa, which is later proven true as Chisa confessed herself to being a member of Ultimate Despair via photos that she left. He reiterated his intent to destroy despair, even if he had to sacrifice his loved ones, only for Makoto to counter that hope could not come from solely eliminating despair.

Makoto's claim that he should not forget Chisa enraged Kyosuke, making him launch a flurry of punches, furiously insisting that Makoto knew nothing of the pain of having someone that they loved tainted with despair. In response, Makoto admitted that if the roles were reversed and he had to kill Kyoko to stop despair because she had killed others, he would not forget the good times they had had before they were set against each other. The Ultimate Hope's words stirred Kyosuke's memories of Chisa at Hope's Peak Academy, finally making him understand that his view was incorrect. Finally dropping a bloodied Makoto to the floor, Kyosuke gave a scream of grief before collapsing on a piece of rubble, crying openly and wondering how and when his beloved Chisa fell into despair.

Moments later, Aoi and Ryota came to the scene and checked on Makoto. He gently told Aoi that she should have waited for him. However, Makoto and Kyosuke are very surprised after the former announces that the killing is over; as she found a journal under Kyoko's corpse that revealed the true identity of the attacker.

Episode 11 - All Good Things
After his confrontation with Kyosuke and being told the game is over, Makoto and the rest find out that there was no attacker all along. They find out that the victims that were killed, actually killed themselves, seeing as how evidence traced towards a knife and similar wounds, they came to the conclusion that they were brainwashed into harming themselves via the monitors.

Makoto then decides to prove his theory by wrapping himself up in front of a monitor, he then reassures a worried Aoi that everything would be fine and that he promised to go save Komaru once the ordeal was over. The others then proceed to leave and as the rounds end, he along with everyone else falls asleep.

Makoto then wakes up and the monitor plays what seems to a pre-recorded video by Monokuma. All he can do is stare as the video plays on to the point where it begins counting down, he finds himself in a strange place where Kyoko and Sayaka appear. The two girls begin to taunt him, as Sayaka reminds Makoto he failed to keep his promise, and Kyoko places the responsibility for her death on him. The rest of their deceased classmates appear behind Kyoko and Sayaka, joining the two girls by taunting him.

What seems like blood spilling is shown, Makoto tries to apologize and says he just wanted all of them to be together, the scene then shows all of his deceased classmates bodies what they looked like after they had died, the scene then transitions to Makoto struggling and screaming from due to what he had just seen, a knife drops and goes out to reach it, while in his hand, the both girls tell him to join them, later the scene goes back to Makoto, who has been hypnotized with his eyes swirly and grinning. He says he'll join them, as the knife approaches his chest, it's kicked by none other than Juzo, stopping him from stabbing himself.

Juzo then proceeds to grab him by the neck, trying to get him to snap out of his hypnosis, once he returns to his usual self, Juzo then tells him that he hated Makoto and was glad when Munakata wanted to get rid of him, after that, Makoto notices Juzo's arm had been cut off where his bracelet was before.

Makoto then returns to the others, showing them that in fact, it was true that the whole thing had been set up in order to make everyone get rid of themselves. Munakata then explains that the possibility for the monitor-incident and find out that this may be had been set up Tengan, who was most likely a despair too.

Episode 12 - It is Always Darkest
Ryota received a timed video message from Kazuo, both Makoto and Aoi gather around Ryota and watched on from his mobile phone. Kazuo explained that he was the one to set up the Final Killing Game, they are all shocked. Upon Ryota falling to the ground in anguish, he questioned whether Kazuo really had become a Remnant of Despair. Makoto tried to fill Ryota with optimism, expressing that the best thing, for now, was finding an exit although Ryota explained that he would not run away from his troubles like he had done when Junko used him for his techniques to create the Despair Video, the very one that brainwashed the Class 77-B.

Ryota concluded that he would distribute his hope video to the world although Makoto and Aoi tried to convince him otherwise. That forcing people to change was still unethical and was shredding the people of their humanity and by working together instead, hope could be spread. Ryota rebuffed Makoto's remark and explained that many people in the world have a weak resolve, unlike Makoto's resolve, which is purely unique to very few.

Ryota began to walk away, although Aoi tried to stop him, she became brainwashed after he showed her his Hope Video and brought her under his control. Ryota then commanded her to restrain Makoto, she proceeded to hold him back, stopping Makoto from reaching Ryota and putting a stop to his actions.

Ryota later brainwashed the Future Foundation's rescue squad, and they immediately sought to apprehend the remainder left within the building, so that they wouldn't be able to interfere with Ryota's plan. They are able to discover Aoi and Makoto and with Makoto still restrained, they take aim, ready to fire. Makoto commanded Aoi to run but she is still under the influence of Ryota's brainwashing video. Fortunately, Kyosuke returned in time and knocks both soldiers to the ground, saving Makoto and Aoi, they then considered a plan of action.

Makoto is able to convince Kyosuke that Kazuo may not have been a Remnant of Despair and was simply forcing Ryota's hand by setting up and putting into action the Final Killing Game. That Kazuo's hope was his belief in Ryota's talents and that he didn't expect Ryota to ever participate in the game. Upon this deduction, they are able to discover Ryota's plan of action, that he will be heading for a broadcast studio situated in a nearby building.

Soldiers approach fast and Makoto, Kyosuke, and Aoi began to run the hallways, looking for an escape. Kyosuke later acts as a distraction, giving Makoto and Aoi a chance to escape and stop Ryota. Although as they continue to run the hallways, Aoi is shot in the leg and Makoto and she sought refuge in a nearby room. After bandaging Aoi's leg, she requested Makoto leave her so he can stop Ryota and he reluctantly left although stated he would be back for her soon.

He is later cornered by soldiers of the Future Foundation's rescue squad, although with luck, Yasuhiro and Byakuya rescue him in time, to Makoto's relief.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no Hakaimono
Main article: Makoto Naegi (Illusion)

Hope Arc- The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair
Makoto continued to the broadcasting studio where Ryota was situated, Byakuya sending half of his operatives as an escort to help Makoto break through the rescue squad blockade. They began to fire bullets rapidly, causing Makoto and Byakuya's operatives to take cover below a concrete wall. After their plan of action seemed to be halted, Nagito caused a rock slide of boulders from above, quashing the efforts of the rescue squad. Makoto is shocked to discover Nagito is the one to carry out this action.

Makoto made his way to the entrance of the broadcasting studio, finding that the Class 77-B have already arrived, he waited outside, listening intently. The Class 77-B are able to convince Ryota to discontinue his intent and allowed him come to the realization that his actions were not creating hope. Makoto, no longer needing to get involved in the situation, proceeded down the sloping platform. Stopping further down, he watched on at the breaking sunlight approaching through the skyline.

The Class 77-B left the broadcasting studio and continued down the sloping platform, Hajime nodding gratefully at Makoto with respect, responding Makoto to also nod in return. Mikan approached Makoto, wanting to speak with him although his blocked and pushed over by Nagito who began to explain how amazing it was to meet an underclassman with perhaps even better luck than he possessed, after continuing for too long he is automatically carried away by Nekomaru and Akane, Makoto smiling at the uncomfortable interaction.

Makoto later met up with Yasuhiro, Aoi, and Byakuya underneath a tent, they all greet him warmly. Makoto is relieved that all of them are okay. Noticing a video on Byakuya's laptop, Makoto and the rest surrounded the screen, Byakuya explained that the Class 77-B broadcasted a message of despair, proclaiming they set up the Final Killing Game in order for the Future Foundation to still look favorable. Byakuya then congratulates Makoto, for giving the Class 77-B hope, he inherently helped towards stopping Ryota.

The Class 77-B return to Jabberwock Island, Makoto seeing them off as they leave by boat. Kyousuke then explained that Makoto needed to carry the burden of his heroic actions and his hope, which he accepts. Asking if Makoto has any plan in mind, he explained he does. Makoto then proclaimed that every day is a step forward in a world filled with hope and despair, he began to reminisce about Kyoko, staring at her blood upon his hand. Surprisingly she left the building alive, having been recovered by Mikan from a near-death state, Makoto turned around in surprise.

Several months after the Final Killing Game, Makoto and the Future Foundation decided to rebuild Hope's Peak Academy, with him becoming the principal and working alongside Kyoko. It is implied that they've become a romantic couple.

Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Makoto appears alongside Yasuhiro and Hajime in the game's demo, with Makoto and Hajime working as Kaede Akamatsu's upper classmates, senior "protagonists" and major helpers.

However, the ending majorly implies that they actually worked together with Monokuma and appear to be just actors. They all compliment each other for doing good work, leave the set and mention working together in the future.

Main Story
Makoto was first mentioned as the Headmaster of the Hope's Peak Academy in a false memory shown by the Flashback Light. He was shown as the pioneer of The Gofer Project after learning that Earth and humanity are in the brink of destruction.

However, it was later revealed that Makoto and the Hope's Peak Academy's existence were a mere fiction created by Team Danganronpa in the universe of Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles Saga. Makoto was cosplayed several times in the last trial by Tsumugi Shirogane, the mastermind of the Killing School Semester.

Bonus Mode
He is playable in the game's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan.

Execution
Main article: After School Lesson

Relationships
Family:
Komaru Naegi
Komaru is Makoto's little sister. Being one of the closest people to him, Makoto loves her dearly, which is proved when she is chosen as Makoto's Captive. They are also slightly similar as siblings, as they both have the same ahoge. According to Komaru, the two watch TV together, as well as share thoughts on manga they share with each other. She's also mentioned that they did argue quite a bit, which is a rather common occurrence between siblings.

When the Tragedy began, Makoto was separated from his sister and forced to participate in the Killing School Life. In an attempt to persuade the participants to kill someone, Monokuma gives them videos showing the people they cared about most get hurt or killed. In Makoto's video, Komaru and their parents were in their home congratulating him on getting into Hope's Peak Academy but suddenly disappear from their place on the couch, which has been destroyed as well as their home. Makoto was terrified, now believing that Komaru and their parents were dead, and was desperate to get out. However, when he learns Komaru is alive, he was greatly relieved and ecstatic to see his sister again. He was a bit disappointed when she informs him that she would be staying in Towa City.

Makoto is once again contacted by Komaru during the Final Killing Game. Makoto almost despairs when he learns from Komaru that one of his friends would die because of him, but Komaru reminds Makoto that he has to stay alive so he could pick her up. This gives Makoto hope, knowing that his sister and friends were supporting him, and proudly takes notice of Komaru's growth. Although Makoto does not get a chance to tell her, he swears that he will pick Komaru up after his battle ends.

After the battle ends, Makoto supposedly reunites with his sister (although this is not shown on screen), who assists him and his fellow survivors in rebuilding Hope's Peak Academy.

His Parents
Before enrolling in Hope's Peak Academy, Makoto lived a normal life with his parents and Komaru. They are the people closest to him. This is proven when the mastermind selects them as his Captives, as well as when they are used in Killing Among Loved Ones in an attempt to motivate Makoto to kill. His parents' status is currently unknown.

Love Interests:
Kyoko Kirigiri
While their relationship during their school years is a bit unclear, in Danganronpa IF it's stated that Makoto had a crush on Kyoko and Junko described her as Mukuro's "rival in love" due to Mukuro's secret crush on him. However, it's not mentioned how she felt about him. Since Makoto is originally shown interested in Sayaka, this seems to imply that at some point his affections turned towards Kyoko (regardless, he and Sayaka are shown to be close friends in Danganronpa 3). In a high school picture, Makoto seems to be looking at Kyoko and Sayaka while their class was out swimming.

After they were brainwashed, the two's bond began during the events of the first case. Kyoko is the one who tells Makoto that there was more to Sayaka's murder than what everyone had been led to believe. It is thanks to her words that he was able to solve the mystery of his late friend's death. She later comforts him about the events, saying that Sayaka was hesitating to carry out her planned deed to kill him and gave her (and subsequently him) the piece of evidence needed to solve the case. Since then, the two have been on good terms and she aids him in the debates during cases. Makoto refers to her as a friend and wishes that she would trust him as much as he trusts her to which she begins to try and believe in others.

During the moments of the fifth trial, when Kyoko is suspected of the crime, Makoto finds a contradiction in her claim. However, he remains quiet, putting his faith in Kyoko. This later leads to him being found guilty of the crime in question. Makoto is forced to undergo a punishment, but is saved thanks to Alter Ego. She realizes that she was only concerned for herself rather than the safety of the only person that trusted her. Because of this, she risks her life to save him. She then showed him her scarred hands, which is a great sign of trust from her, as she states that she only shows her hands to people she considers as important as family. This is coupled with other subtle hints that indicate that she has romantic feelings for him.

After joining Future Foundation, Kyoko becomes Makoto's leader. Makoto constantly makes sure Kyoko doesn't overdo her tasks and Kyoko, in return, states she'll use her powers to protect Makoto. Kyoko continues to admire his optimism, and Makoto, in turn, admires her 'cool' personality and considers her the person who has kept him alive.

In Danganronpa 3, it becomes much more evident that the two have feelings for each other, especially notable in Makoto's shyer behavior and tendency to blush more often. During the collaboration game of Danganronpa 3 and Guns Girl Z, when Kyoko is accused of being so stoic that even Makoto can't find her cute, he then a bit shyly but firmly points out that he does in fact find her quite cute, which surprises her and makes her blush. During the killing game, when Makoto overhears Kyoko talking about him with Ryota Mitarai, Makoto blushes, embarrassed by Kyoko's small speech while Kyoko coughs awkwardly after realizing he heard her. At one point, Kyoko takes off her gloves and holds his hand to comfort him, and Makoto is also seen mimicking Kyoko's thinking posture at one point. In the Otomedia magazine, Makoto is asked who is the first person that comes to his mind when he thinks about autumn. He answers Kyoko, since she is cool, but also has a really warm and gentle side. He then nervously tries to explain that he doesn't mean that in a weird way and tries to change the topic by stating that coincidentally her birthday is in October. This makes it seem even more suspicious, and he defends himself by stating that of course he would remember his own friend's birthday... only to fail to name Yasuhiro's one when questioned and nervously laughing that he may have forgotten.Aoi also appears to be very much aware that the two like each other, grinning widely after Kyoko's speech and later looking at the two while smiling knowingly, seemingly supportive of them.

However, Makoto ends up unintentionally triggering Kyoko's NG code in the Final Killing Game, as her NG code was passing the fourth time limit with him alive. Makoto was shocked and very much saddened by her supposed death, blaming himself for letting her die. However, her last words of encouragement to him seemed to give Makoto just a little bit of hope and her supposed death fueled him determination to bring an end to the Final Killing Game. Although he tried to act strong about Kyoko's demise, Makoto is seen crying about her when alone, while remembering his memories with her by his side. After he was brainwashed, he hallucinated the "ghosts" of Kyoko and Sayaka. Sayaka's ghost has been confirmed to represent his first love, implying that Kyoko is his current love. When Makoto had a confrontation with Kyosuke it is insinuated by him that Makoto was in love with her. While trying to persuade him to help him, Makoto tearfully tells him that if Kyoko had fallen into despair, and he had no choice but to kill her, he would still be happy to have met her.

After Mikan revived Kyoko, Makoto was very happy to see her. Makoto and Kyoko are last seen running the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy together. In the official art, they are seen holding hands while wearing their new clothing, heavily implying that they became a romantic couple, considering their pose and the fact that the two are shown to be the type of characters who hold hands only in special situations (especially Kyoko).

Sayaka Maizono
Prior to entering Hope's Peak Academy, Makoto and Sayaka attended middle school together and didn't have much of a friendship due to them being in different social standards. Sayaka later reveals that she always meant to talk to Makoto since witnessing him nursing an injured crane back to health after it got lost and stuck in the pool at their school. Unfortunately, they ended up graduating without ever having contact.

It's heavily implied that Makoto had a crush on Sayaka since middle school. This appears to be a bit naive first crush, as he doesn't actually know her at that point, but admires her from afar. He thinks Sayaka is very beautiful and, based on Makoto Naegi Secret File, he enjoyed watching her performances after she became an idol. After meeting with each other in high school, they seem to have become close friends, and are seen talking together in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc. Also, in one of their high school pictures, Makoto seems to be looking at Sayaka while their class was out swimming.

During the Killing School Life, Sayaka recognized Makoto immediately and befriended him. A mutual attraction formed between the two and she even considered herself to be his "sidekick". He admired her very much and silently remarked on her beauty every time she smiled. They trusted one another, and she admitted to him that she would go to dangerous lengths so she can protect and defend her idol members. After receiving the alarming video which showed her friends disbanding the idol group and laying on the stage in distress, Sayaka had an emotional breakdown. Makoto was quick to comfort her, promising to get her out of the school no matter what it took. Makoto cared for her enough to let her borrow his room when she was scared of sleeping in her own. The next morning of her absence, Makoto goes looking for her worried about the condition she was in. Upon finding her dead in his bathroom, he was devastated, letting out a loud scream and fainting in shock.

After finding out the facts from the class trial, and knowing that Sayaka took advantage of his caring actions and tried to frame him, Makoto feels betrayed; however, he still mourns over her death as she was his close friend. Kyoko comforts Makoto and tells him that it's most likely Sayaka wrote her dying message with Makoto in her thoughts, exposing her killer to apologize for her actions. Makoto points out that she also could have just wanted to get back on her killer. It is not revealed whether that is true or not, but in his conversation with Kyoko after the trial, he quotes Sayaka one last time, calling his intuition a result of him being a psychic and then denying it as a joke after.

In the second game, Makoto used the 11037 number as a code to save the remaining students, the number which Sayaka used to save Makoto from being framed as the culprit in the first trial, Makoto later explained to Hajime the reason he set 11037 as the code because a certain person (Sayaka) left that number behind to save him from trouble, proving that Makoto believed Kyoko's theory and remembered her dearly as a friend. This is most likely due to the fact that Makoto regained his memories, and remembered his relationship with Sayaka.

In the anime version of the first game, Makoto is often seen blushing in Sayaka's company and the relationship chart confirms his crush on her. However, the chart does not mention her liking him back, while it's been implied that she does. In Danganronpa IF, it's stated that Makoto had a crush on Kyoko, implying that his feelings for Sayaka changed for some reason during their school years. Regardless, the two are shown to be at least very close friends in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc.

In Danganronpa 3 - Future Arc, Sayaka's "ghost" appeared to Makoto alongside Kyoko's "ghost", after he was brainwashed and about to commit suicide. According to Sayaka's voice actress, her appearance was supposed to represent "a guy thinking of his first love right before his death", and thus she was not portrayed with a scary voice.

In Danganronpa V3 bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Sayaka cooks a dish for Makoto, which he enjoys. They then talk about the old days and want to spend more time together.

Class 78th:
Aoi Asahina
Although not sharing any kind of close relationship with Aoi when they first met, Makoto becomes close friends with her during their time together at Hope's Peak. During one of her Free Time events, Aoi requests that Makoto act as her fake boyfriend so she can practice when she gets a real one. Their closeness is also shown when Aoi is shown feeling guilty over having executed Makoto and she seems happy when he forgives her.

As members of the Future Foundation, the two have grown considerably closer. Makoto makes sure Aoi doesn't overdo things while Aoi frequently tells him that everything is okay. When Makoto is arrested for betraying the Future Foundation, Aoi (along with Kyoko) helps defend him, and she also helps him escape from Kyosuke when the latter tries to kill him. Makoto gives Aoi hope after she despairs at the fact that they must start a new round of killing.

Makoto remains with Aoi throughout most of the Final Killing Game, and she helps him escape from Kyosuke and Juzo numerous times. Makoto constantly relies on Aoi, and is thankful for the help she has given him. Despite this, Makoto worries for her safety, particularly when she attempts to fight Juzo despite being at a disadvantage due to her NG code.

Makoto and Aoi have been shown to understand one another when deaths or murders occur, even since the Killing School Life. Makoto's understanding of Aoi's emotional side is ultimately what allowed him to thwart her plans to have them executed in Chapter 4. During the Final Killing Game, when Kyoko supposedly dies, Aoi fears that Makoto would become reckless and hurt himself, despite Makoto assuring her that he wouldn't let their friend's sacrifice go to waste.

The two also comfort each other when these events occur. When Kazuo is murdered by Kyosuke, Aoi gives Makoto support and gives him hope just as he did her. After his conversation with Komaru, Makoto realizes that they may have reminded Aoi of her deceased brother, Yuta, who was Aoi's Captive and thus the person closest to her prior to The Tragedy. He appeared to want to comfort his friend, however he was unable to do so as they were interuppted by Miaya revealing her robotic nature.

During the Final Killing Game, some of Aoi's expressions indicate that she knows Makoto and Kyoko like each other, and she appears silently very happy for them.

After the events of The Tragedy have been resolved, Makoto, Aoi, and their fellow survivors decide to rebuild Hope's Peak Academy together.

Byakuya Togami
Makoto thought of Byakuya's talent as exceptional, due to his status as the Ultimate Affluent Prodigy. Byakuya often acted coldly towards Makoto, starting at their introductions, similarly to everyone else, which Makoto disliked, albeit not openly. Despite this, Makoto acted friendly to Byakuya, similarly to everyone else, keeping his negative comments to himself.

During Byakuya's Free Time events, when Makoto explained his talent to Byakuya, he thought of Makoto as a boring commoner, something which Makoto saw as going too far. Makoto tried to understand Byakuya, and he realized that that they were worlds apart. He tried, unsuccessfully, to teach Byakuya that living a normal life was alright with him. Similarly, Byakuya used Makoto to try to find out the mentality of the 99%. He offered him a $550,000 salary, as a part of a test to understand and see if his belief of being happy with what he had was true or not, and was surprised when he rejected it, but said the thought of Makoto being his secretary made him feel ill. In the end, Byakuya disliked Makoto's philosophy, but was willing to talk to him about his past, but stated they would never be friends. Makoto realized they were worlds apart, but began to understand him.

During Chapter 2, Byakuya assisted Makoto with finding evidence for the murder of Chihiro, though it was later revealed that it was used for Byakuya's entertainment and to help figure out who was a threat to Byakuya's plans, to which Byakuya identified Makoto as.

In Chapter 5, after Byakuya resolved to defeat the mastermind, he became less cold towards Makoto, such as being more willing to give him information and warning him about the dangers of protecting Kyoko during the fifth trial.

During the final class trial, Makoto helped rescue Byakuya from Junko's despair. Although Byakuya states he didn't need Makoto's encouragement, he was most likely lying.

In Danganronpa 2, Byakuya cooperated with Makoto's plan, agreeing to rescue to remnants of despair and Byakuya respected Makoto's decision.

In Danganronpa Another Episode, Byakuya says to Komaru, that she reminds him of Makoto when Byakuya first met Makoto, indicating Byakuya respects Makoto more after the events of Danganronpa.

In Danganronpa 3, Byakuya tells Makoto that he "was as tough as a cockroach, and as hard to kill", and that he wouldn't want them to be enemies. Aoi suggested that Byakuya was trying to make Makoto feel better, as the latter was thrown into another killing game.

Toko Fukawa
Makoto finds it difficult to talk to Toko, mostly because of her antisocial nature and the fact that Toko can be very accusative. Toko has expressed dislike for Makoto, saying she disapproves of him, but sometimes thinks of him as reliable. Makoto and Toko survive the Killing School Life together, and become members of the Future Foundation (although Toko is not an official member).

Yasuhiro Hagakure
A fellow survivor of the Killing School Life and member of the Future Foundation. Makoto is visibly the nicest to Yasuhiro out of all their fellow survivors, but often finds his eccentric personality confusing.

Leon Kuwata
During his free-time events, he shared a lot of things with Makoto and even invited him for a baseball match after they escaped the academy. However, it never came true as Leon was executed at the end of the first trial. Makoto himself didn't hold a grudge against Leon for killing Sayaka, because he felt that the one at fault was Monokuma.

Mondo Owada
Byakuya provoked Mondo to become enraged, Makoto tried to stop Mondo from doing something rash and ended up being punched by Mondo when trying to intervene. Mondo later apologized for his short-tempered actions showing he holds no disdain towards Makoto.

When Sayaka was murdered, Mondo assumed Makoto to be the killer due to the murder happening in his dorm room without considering other evidence, showing he did not fully trust Makoto by this point.

Mondo and Kiyotaka have an argument about who has the greater strength and challenge each other to an endurance contest in the sauna. Mondo requests Makoto to be their witness in order to have a fair contest showing that he now may trust Makoto more after the events of the first class trial in which his innocence was proved.

During Mondo's Free Time events he requested Makoto come riding with his gang after they escape Hope's Peak Academy. Makoto is unsure if it would be safe and Mondo stated Makoto could ride with him on his motorcycle, showing that he trusts Makoto and sees him as a close friend. Mondo also talks to Makoto exclusively about his indecisiveness over his career path, something that he stated he would share with no one else which presents the development of their friendship.

In Chihiro's final free time event, Makoto recommended Mondo as his trainer.

Makoto is able to discover Mondo to be the culprit of Chihiro's murder and upon hearing Mondo's reasons for killing Chihiro, Makoto started to feel guilty and was deeply upset when Mondo is sentenced to be executed.

Kiyotaka Ishimaru
Kiyotaka seems to regard Makoto in a friendly manner, or at least respectfully as a fellow classmate and student. In Kiyotaka's Free Time Events, their relationship deepens when Makoto manages to help Kiyotaka and his social skills with making friends, to which Kiyotaka responds by giving him the title of "Professor", much to Makoto's discomfort. Eventually Kiyotaka comes to call Makoto a friend, and even entrust him with the knowledge of his grandfather, Toranosuke Ishimaru, and why he hates geniuses.

Sakura Ogami
Originally, Makoto was very afraid of Sakura, due to her reputation as a martial artist and imposing figure, but they eventually bonded during the killing game.

Sakura put a great deal of trust in Makoto, telling him about her past and her boyfriend Kenshiro. Makoto, in turn, told Sakura to be patient until they escaped and to embrace her femininity. Sakura stated that Makoto reminds her of Kenshiro in some ways.

Chihiro Fujisaki
Chihiro was good friends with Makoto and stated that talking to him made him feel better. Makoto, in turn, told Chihiro to become stronger and to feel better about himself. In a free-time event it is revealed that Makoto is partially responsible for Chihiro's death as he is the one who recommended that Chihiro train with Mondo to become stronger. Despite their closeness, Chihiro never told Makoto that he was a boy in the actual story. However, he does so in School Mode.

In Danganronpa V3 bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, during a Sports Festival Event, Makoto seeks out Chihiro to team up for a three-legged race because they are close in height. After finding and asking to team up, Makoto reassures a worried Chihiro that he is the only one he can count on to race.

Celestia Ludenberg
Celestia seemed to be rather fond of Makoto and she was curious to see if his luck as the Ultimate Lucky Student could beat her luck as the Ultimate Gambler.

During the Free Time Events, when Celestia does her personal ranking, she ranked Makoto with C-rank, which is higher than any of her classmates. While Makoto considers Celestia a friend, he is intimidated by her luck and that she would have a person assassinated if she found them boring which led Makoto to conclude that she is a friend that he needs to be careful with.

Hifumi Yamada
During their introductions, Makoto is made very uncomfortable by Hifumi's innuendos, despite that however, Hifumi seems to view Makoto in a friendly way, even finding him worthy enough to ramble about his interests such as Princess Piggles or his fanfiction creations.

Their relationship is deepened in Hifumi's Free Time Events and in School Mode, going as far as to call Makoto his "true friend" and even getting him to agree to join him as his apprentice/historian at his studio after they escape the school.

Mukuro Ikusaba
Before the Tragedy, Makoto was friends with Mukuro in Hope's Peak Academy Class 78th, though it seems they never became very close because of her distant's personality. Makoto was the first person to ever smile at her, which led to her falling in love with him, although he seems to be unaware of this and is only known to like her as a friend. In Danganronpa Zero, she rescued him, claiming that she did it because they're classmates.

In Danganronpa IF, Makoto treated her very kindly and placed his trust in her, even after it was revealed that she was partly responsible for what had happened to Hope's Peak Academy.

Besides that, Makoto doesn't seem to see Mukuro the same way as the other Class 78th (after his memory was erased), as when he watched the brainwashing video she was not amongst the classmates that appeared before him. This could either be because he sees her, like Junko, as not a victim of the killing game, or because he simply cannot remember her image or personality due to his mindwipe, and simply doesn't feel like she died in order to facilitate the eventual escape of himself and the other survivors.

Ultimate Despair:
Junko Enoshima
As the Ultimate Hope, Makoto was a major enemy of Junko. In turn, she seems to be one of the few people he genuinely dislikes, as he's usually very kind and forgiving. In turn, Junko thinks out of all the students in Class 78th, Makoto seems to be the most annoying and odd person in her class.

They developed a great hatred for each other during the Mutual Killing Game. In the end with the help of his friends, he had Junko Enoshima executed. However, even in her case, he felt that she didn't need to die and tried to reason with her when she was about to execute herself.

Though dead, Junko has found ways to antagonize Makoto through her AI form.

Besides his hatred for Junko, in Danganronpa IF, after he convinced Mukuro to think outside of Junko's world, he said that he would try to convince Junko in the same way as her sister, even after it's revealed that she's the mastermind of the Killing game.

Monokuma
During the Killing School Life, Makoto feels intense hatred for Monokuma, especially after the events of Chapter 1. The two maintain a fierce rivalry throughout the Hope's Peak Academy saga, a battle between Hope and Despair. In Danganronpa 3 - Future Arc in the Final Killing Game, Monokuma states that this will be their final battle and conclude the history of each other between the last battle of Hope and Despair.

Reserve Course:
Hajime Hinata
Makoto put Izuru and the other Remnants of Despair in the Neo World Program. After waking up from the program, Izuru who successfully restored his previous identity, Hajime, brought his classmates to help Makoto to prevent Ryota from using his brainwashing video. Hajime is very thankful to Makoto, because of his hope his classmates return to their original personalities before being brainwashed by Junko.

Future Foundation Members:
Kyosuke Munakata
Makoto is Kyosuke's most persistent obstacle in his desire to eliminate Ultimate Despair. Because of Kyosuke's position as vice-leader, he was successfully able to charge Makoto with treason against Future Foundation and continues to antagonize him. Rather than just punishing him, Kyosuke is in favor of executing Makoto alongside the Remnants of Despair.

Contrary to what his actions might imply, Kyosuke admits to Makoto that he thinks he is impressive, and not just because he was responsible for the defeat of Junko Enoshima. Kyosuke respects Makoto's charisma and determination in the face of impossible odds; both qualities that were repeatedly displayed during the broadcast of the Killing School Life. Makoto implies that they had once been friends.

Despite this, Kyosuke is consistently at odds with Makoto because their viewpoints are so different. Makoto believes solely in hope, while Kyosuke believes in power. Because of this, Kyosuke thinks that Makoto's words are hollow and meaningless, as he does not appreciate despair in the same way that he appreciates hope. In his view, Makoto's experience with the Killing Games pales in comparison to the Future Foundation's battle in a world with no laws or restrictions on the depths to which the forces of Despair can sink in order to snuff out hope. Kyosuke also fears how influential Makoto can be, as he doesn't want him convincing people that they can win against despair without fighting.

Ultimately, Kyosuke's antagonism of Makoto is a clash of ideals on how best to reverse the damage wrought on the world by Ultimate Despair. Kyosuke also states that he'll eliminate despair at all cost, even if the despair itself was someone he dearly loved. However, Makoto managed to remind him to not forget about his beloved (In this case, Chisa) and Kyosuke began to change. He agreed to ally himself with Makoto, although he still seems somewhat wary of him despite Makoto trusting him completely.

Kazuo Tengan
Originally, Makoto had a great deal of respect towards Kazuo. He was thankful to Kazuo for defending him and blamed himself after he was murdered by Kyosuke. Makoto was shocked upon discovering Kazuo had been the mastermind behind the Final Killing Game, but didn't seem to hold a grudge against him or view Kazuo as an enemy.

Great Gozu
Great Gozu admires Makoto for his optimism in the face of adversity and has thought that way ever since seeing him broadcasted in the Killing School Life for the first time. He sees Makoto as the type of hope that Future Foundation needs, and fiercely protected Makoto from Kyosuke for that reason.

Juzo Sakakura
Juzo has a strong hatred for Makoto and is often unable to look at or hear his name mentioned without showing disgust. His dislike was present long before Makoto had gone against protocol and sheltered the Remnants of Despair. In Danganronpa Gaiden: Killer Killer, Juzo is shown to hate Makoto so much that he requested the former Super High School Level Make-up Artist make a fake corpse in his image, which he used to infiltrate the Killing Festival and "murdered" in order to win over the crowd. When the Make-up Artist jokingly asked if Juzo was going to fight it, he answered that Makoto wasn't worth it.

Juzo despises the fact that Makoto is labeled a "hero," and mockingly refers to him as such. He doesn't believe that he deserves to be called a hero, after all of the lives his actions have directly or indirectly sacrificed. Additional reasons for his hatred include Makoto's conflicting ideals, and the trouble that Makoto has ultimately caused for Kyosuke. However, it was eventually discovered that Juzo hated Makoto due to the fact that he is able to stand up and defeat Junko, something that Juzo himself failed to do and blames himself on.

Juzo later saves brainwashed Makoto from suicide and confesses the reasons behind his hatred. Makoto tries to tell him that Kyosuke was tricked and that's why he attempted to kill him, and later convinces Kyosuke that Juzo still cares about him and he should go to him.

Ryota Mitarai
A fellow member of the Future Foundation. Ryota greatly admired and respected Makoto for his bravery during the Killing School Life, although the two don't share any close relationship in particular.

Quotes
DR1ExtraDRAEDR2DR3DRV3Novel
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"Before we go any farther, I guess I should introduce myself. My name's Makoto Naegi. As you can see, I'm nothing but a hopelessly average high school student. Average on the outside, average on the inside. I really don't have much going for me when it comes to grades, special abilities, even personality. I mean yeah, I have hobbies and stuff I like to do, but it's not like I'm a psychic or mutant or whatever. Like, if you asked me what my favorite song was, or my favorite movie or TV show... They'd all just be whatever's most popular at that particular moment. Even among the average, I'm completely average. So I can't even say I'm your "everyday hero" type. That's just who I am. Anyway, I figure it's always good to introduce yourself right off the bat. But you know, if I have any kind of "strong point," so to speak... I'd say I'm a little more gung-ho than other people. I mean look at me. I'm completely ordinary, but still... Here I am, standing in front of the anything but ordinary Hope's Peak Academy. I still can't believe I'm standing here. I wonder if someone like me can survive in a place like this..."
"Reading that made me realize how totally powerless I was. It was the country's finest, top to bottom. I felt like a tame little house cat who'd wandered into a pride of lions."
"That was how it all began... And how life as I knew it came to an end. At that point, I should have realized... The reason I was brought to Hope's Peak Academy wasn't because I had ultimate good luck. It was so I could experience ultimate despair..."
"I'm still totally lost, but I think it's best to just focus on getting to know each other for now. So I guess this is as good a chance as I'm gonna get."
"So many dreams are getting crushed today..." (In response to Junko's cover photos secret)
"I'd better be careful around him. One wrong word and I could wake up at the bottom of the sea..."
"That smile is beyond deceptive, I'd better watch myself around her..."
"Hmm... Even though they're all ultimate," they each have their own individual sort of...um...something."
"We don't have a choice. We have to go."
"Total silence... For whatever reason, she's the only one managing to stay calm. Or maybe I'm just imagining that..."
"Explosions might happen all the time in movies or whatever, but when it's in real life... I'd never seen anything like it."
"I realized the true terror hidden within the rules Monokuma had laid out. "You must kill someone if you want to leave." Those words had planted vicious thoughts deep within each of us. Each of us became suspicious of everyone else. We were forced to wonder, "Is somebody going to betray us? And that was how my new school life began... This school, which had come out of nowhere to raise my hopes so high... It's *not* a school of hope. It's... ...a school of despair."
Chapter 1:

"S-Stop it! We shouldn't fight!" (to Mondo and Byakuya)
"Now that I think about it, maybe I'd kinda forgotten... ...the kind of people I'd been trapped here with. My common sense had just...stopped functioning. Being around all these "ultimates" had blown my fuses. So I guess I shouldn't be surprised it led to something as absurd as this. But I'd just...lost track of that sense of reality."
"Well, that's true. But there were lots of students in our grade, right? Plus, I've never been the type of person to ever really stand out. I'm average at everything, and all my hobbies are totally normal. Even "normal" would call me boring." (to Sayaka)
"That somehow mysterious smile of hers made my heart grow calmer. Her smile was the nicest smile I'd ever seen..."
"I'm nothing at all compared to all you "ultimates."
"Is this really where I'll be staying for the foreseeable future?"
"There's no easy way to just accept the situation we've suddenly been dropped into. Would it be too much to hope that when I woke up, I'd realize it was all a dream? It's kind of lame as far as endings go, but I'd be fine with that. Actually, that'd be the best..."
"A vending machine. It's always nice to have a drink while your laundry gets done."
"I really wanna smash that camera. But if I break *it* Monokuma will break *me*. So I'll just have to try and ignore it..."
"Kyoko seems kind of...how should I put it? Taciturn? Or maybe she just plays things cool."
"Even in this crappy situation, when I see that meat I start to get kinda excited..."
"I can't even be sure if that clock is right. I don't know what to believe anymore..."
"What's the point of having stairs if you're just gonna block 'em off...?"
"They're like water and oil, anyway. It'd be weird if they *did* get along." (About Toko and Aoi)
"H-Hey, don't worry about it! It's not like you need it right away, right? Plus, if anything *were* to happen... When the time comes...I'll protect you."
"That mysterious smile... I can tell it comes from the heart. It makes me feel at ease... When I look at her, I honestly feel like I can do anything."
"I mean, if there's nothing to talk about, then we can just not talk, right? You don't have to force yourself to talk. We can just, I dunno...stare off into space or whatever."
"She worked so hard, sacrificed so much, to get where she is. She must be terrified of losing it."
"Trapped here this way, the dream she put so much effort into is on the verge of disappearing forever. And that isn't something that can be fixed with a few kind words. The weight she's carrying... I can't even imagine it."
"Even if I understand where her desperation is coming from, I can't share in it. The pressure she's under is way different from anything a normal high schooler like me goes through. She didn't just stumble into this school the way I did. So I can't say I feel things the way she does. Compared to her...no, compared to everyone else here... ...there's no doubt I just don't match up. I guess that might explain my own frustration."
"There's nothing you can say that'll make us start killing each other..."
"I understand. I know how you feel right now. When I think what might have happened to my family... But now more than ever we have to stay calm! That is exactly what they want. They *want* us to lose our composure and stop thinking rationally. So let's just calm down, okay? Otherwise, we've already lost."
"Be calm, okay? Just be calm... As long as we work together, I'm sure we can find some way out of here. And help might even come before that." (to Sayaka)
"I-If that happens. ...then I'll get you out of here myself! No matter what it takes!
"O-Of course I'll be there for you! No matter what, I'm always on your side. I mean... ...you *are* my assistant, after all."
"There's just so many problems. I can't even decide what the biggest problem is... That we're trapped in here? That what I saw in that video might be real? Monokuma? What the mastermind has in store for us? Or...are *we* our biggest problem? ... I want to get out of here. But I could never kill someone... Do others all feel the same? ... Yeah, that's definitely the biggest problem right now."
"We just have to do it... Everyone kept repeating that sentiment. They were using it like a mantra to give themselves strength. But they're right. We just have to do this. No matter how much we don't want to, we have no choice. If that's what it takes to survive, then that's what we have to do! I'm terrified to find out, but still...I have to know. Otherwise, I knew I'd never be able to accept her death. Which is why... ...I don't have any choice! I have to do this!"
"We have no choice but to push forward if we want to find out what happened... Somehow, I have to find out the truth. So that we can all survive... And for Sayaka... I have to find out how she was killed!"
"But I can't...I can't hesitate now... Why...? Why did Sayaka have to die? I have to uncover the truth... I have to find out what happened! I wanted to give up, I wanted to collapse. But that thought held me up and supported me."
"I wonder if there's a time limit on the investigation... Well, doesn't matter. Either way I need to move as fast as I can."
"No! I can't let myself get depressed again! I need to search for clues."
"There's no escape for any of us..."
"I need to uncover the truth of Sayaka's death... In Sayaka's honor... I swear I'll find out who the real killer is!"
"And so, the curtain on our first case opened... A deadly judgment... A deadly deception... A deadly betrayal... A deadly riddle, a deadly defense, a deadly faith... A deadly...class trial...!"
"It's about to begin—the debate to decide who we think the killer is... Anything I found, anything I noticed... I have to be ready to speak up about everything. Because this isn't just about me. Everyone's lives are on the line!"
"Say what you want, Leon. But all the questions have been answered, and the truth has been revealed."
"I can't give up now!"
"Once you're dead...that's that..."
"We shouldn't be fighting each other... We should be fighting against the one who put us in this situation! The mastermind!"
"I'm going to carry them with me the rest of my life. How could I possibly "move past" something like that? Leon...Sayaka... I'll carry them with me forever. I'll carry their memories with me whenever I go!"
"Oh, well... ... I'm psychic. Kidding... I just have pretty good intuition."
Chapter 2:

"It's a bad joke, a sickening dream... But I have to accept the reality of it all..."
"Plus... I've decided that I can't turn away from her death..."
"So don't waste your anger on yourself... Instead, direct is at the mastermind!"
"But...this is just the beginning... Our despair has only just begun...!"
"But...we shouldn't read other people's mail without their permission."
"All I can do now is hope someone else found something worthwhile..."
"Was this the mastermind's plan? To give us hope, just to turn around and betray that hope...?"
"I can't let myself turn away from Sayaka's death... For Sayaka...and for myself..."
"I knew there was more to her when I first met her... I'd hate to have her as an enemy. Seriously, man. She's one scary chick..."
"I guess everyone has a softer side."
"Still, don't stress out too much about having to get stronger." (to Chihiro)
"Yeah, man! If we keep helping each other out like this... ...we're bound to get outta this crappy place sooner or later! I mean...someday...I'm sure..."
"The gates of hell...!? That's not a good place to push someone!"
"I don't feel good about it either, but...we can't just ignore this."
"It's definitely something I'd rather people not know, but... ...we'd never kill over something like that!"
"There's no way anyone would kill over stuff like that. At least, that's what I thought. But maybe I was just being optimistic. Which is probably why, without too much of a struggle..."
"They killed her. How could it *not* be brutal?"
"I hate this, but...if I want to survive... Me and everyone else... We have to do it. We don't have any other choice! No matter what, I gotta do what I gotta do..."
"This is beyond believing or not believing. Byakuya is actually starting to scare me more than the actual mastermind..."
"So I'm part of another totally unbelievable story... But this one is way more unbelievable than anything else up till now. Or...maybe it really isn't. I dunno, I feel like my mind has gone dumb..."
"I need to find out everything I can..."
"We have no choice, right? We have to do this..."
"And so, the curtain opened once again... A deadly judgment... A deadly deception... A deadly betrayal... A deadly riddle, a deadly defense, a deadly faith... A deadly...class trial...!"
"Anyway, let's discuss this all as a group one more time. We still have time to make our decision."
"I mean...I don't want to believe it either. But... But I found something that proves it beyond a shadow of a doubt..."
"Another murder...and another execution... I want to feel again... Everyone's lives are taken so lightly here... I feel like I might be going mad... Maybe I'll just...let it happen..."
"Monokuma's laughter pealed across the courtroom, and the curtain closed on the case of Chihiro and Mondo. But I knew that wasn't the end. The killing game would still continue... Because the mastermind wouldn't let it end. For those of us who were still alive, our worst fear and despair kept on multiplying... It was the kind of despair that felt like a blind puppy in hell had more of a future than us... All of our courage, our effort, our friendship... It felt like it amounted to nothing at all. ...It was the worst kind of despair."
Chapter 3:

"Assuming I make it out of here alive, I'll never look at surveillance cameras the same way again..."
"To go out of your way to say something you know will hurt someone who's already suffering... God damn you!"
"There was an undeniable strength in her voice when she said that. She was totally confident she would be okay. That confidence was somewhat similar to Byakuya's tone, but at the same time different... Yeah, it had an entirely different feel, for sure... Like...someone who'd been dropped onto a battlefield, versus someone who'd been born on a battlefield. I felt like that was the fundamental difference..."
"Celeste didn't hesitate coming up with the ruse, and her poker face didn't even flinch."
"Whether it's ten million, or any other amount of money... No, not even just money. From now on, no matter what you do... ...we won't kill our friends!"
"Even if the reason for it seems completely nonsensical, a murder can still happen. That's the lesson we learned. But this time... This time, it's different. I'm sure of it..."
"It's still morning, but because of everything that's happened...I'm tired already. Well anyway, I have to just pull myself together."
"I'm kind of nervous, but...there's no way I can't check it out now."
"We'd finally discovered some small measure of hope. But even that... ...was taken away from us. And we couldn't even put up a fight. We were given hope, and then when that hope was taken away...despair. It's just like... Just like what the mastermind is doing to us... Then...could it really be true? Whoever stole Alter Ego... Could they really be working for the mastermind? If that's true... No! It can't be! There's no way! I didn't even realize I'd yelled that out loud. The scary thing isn't the idea of someone spying on us. What's really scary is... ...the idea that we're starting to doubt each other again. That scares me more than anything."
"Anything can happen here, and you can't consider it "strange." Not really..."
"Everyone stop fighting! Right now we need to hurry back!"
"No matter how many more of Hina's tears splashed his face... ...there was no second miracle. Reality set in again."
"I have no choice but to go through with this. To make sure everyone survives... ...I just have to do it!"
"A handbook may play a role...? I...don't think I understand. But if Kyoko thinks it's important, I'd better keep it in mind..."
"There was no going back... Until we settled all this, we couldn't go anywhere."
"And so, the curtain opened once again... A deadly judgment... A deadly deception... A deadly betrayal... A deadly riddle, a deadly defense, a deadly faith... A deadly...class trial...!"
"Wow...I've never had anyone sound so nice while being so mean. But maybe I can change her mind..."
"The contradictions hidden in what happened to Taka... In order to uncover the truth of this case, I have to find them, no matter what!"
"Let me go over the case again, from the beginning, and shed light on all your crimes. And that'll bring everything to an end!"
"Celeste! Sorry, you lose!"
"Celeste smiled then... And when she did, it looked to me like a poor effort to force it. She claimed she could fool her own feelings. But that statement itself...must have been her final lie. And that weak, fake smile...is what betrayed her."
"Celestia killed my friends, so I can't pity her. But... I also can't deny that, at one point, I considered *her* a friend, too."
"Don't talk like you're not responsible... How long are you gonna make us keep going through this!? What do you want from us!?"
"Monokuma disappeared, leaving us all depressed and in despair... Although...it wasn't *all* despair. There was...one small hope."
"I...I believe in you. Isn't it obvious? People believe in their friends, right? That's why I want you to tell me! And I want you...to believe in me, too. Because we're friends."
"What do I know? What *don't* I know?"
Chapter 4:

"She's right... We have to plan ahead and think about the future!"
"That goes for me too, of course. I could never kill any of my friends! I felt like those words of encouragement were helping us come together as one. After so much sacrifice and hardship...we'd finally become united."
"We were untied for the time being, but within that bond hid weakness and fragility."
"Maybe this time, we'll find some kind of clue... No! This time I HAVE to find it!"
"Even an ultimate can't destroy this plate, unless they had ultimate superhero powers..."
"You're right that there shouldn't be any secrets between friends, but... There's nothing worse than expressing doubt about your friend when you don't have evidence for it..."
"I haven't found conclusive evidence yet... If I talk about it now, it could just make things that much worse."
"They're smiling the way you'd expect any normal teenager to smile... Just a normal group of high schoolers, living a normal school life... I can't possibly believe they were able to smile like that in a world of despair like this." (About Sayaka, Celestia, and Hifumi normal school life photo)
"That's it." A simple phrase that held so much meaning..."
"But you know...what's the difference between us and that program, really? I started thinking about how you could differentiate a person and an AI. Alter Ego isn't human, I know that. It's just a program running on a computer. But at the same time, I couldn't help but think of him as our friend."
"All these mysteries make me worried. But I still have to try and unravel them, bit by bit. I'm sure the road will be long, and tough, but I don't have any other choice."
"She's right... Even if the road is long... If we don't keep on moving forward, we'll never reach our goal!"
"It takes a lot of courage to stand face-to-face with Sakura and accuse her of something..."
"Finally, I understood what he had been talking about. An eye for an eye, a fang for a fang... In other words... Betrayal would be met with betrayal."
"Being in such an awful mood... ...we were honestly glad the day was over."
"No matter what, we're gonna get out of here! You and all the rest of us, as friends!"
"Finding out who killed Sakura... It's not a matter of hoping we can do it... If we want to survive, we *have* to do it. It's a kind of...hopeless hope. We have no choice but to just do it...!"
"It'sdefinitely a tough mystery... I need to concentrate and investigate as much as I can. For Sakura, if nothing else..."
"He's not even trying to hide how much he despises me. I'd better go before he crushes my soul completely..."
"It's impossible not to have regrets, I know..."
"I really don't know what is this about, but... ...what choice do I have? I'd better just do it."
"At this point, whatever happens will have to happen at the class trial...! No...not whatever happens. I have to MAKE something happen!"
"Come on, it's time to put an end to this..."
"No matter how many times I go through this, it never gets any easier..."
"And so, the curtain opened for the fourth time... A deadly judgment... A deadly deception... A deadly betrayal... A deadly riddle, a deadly defense, a deadly faith.... A deadly...class trial...!"
"Sakura's death wasn't a waste! Because she made us remember... We're not enemies that hate each other. We're friends, who need to work together!" (to Monokuma)
"Whether or not there was a spy never really mattered. Because the one we need to destroy... ...is you! Nobody else!"
"Alter Ego wanted to fight for us... He wanted to help, at the risk of his own life... And for that...he was killed."
"No...his death wasn't meaningless, either. Everybody who's died so far... The deaths of each and every one of our friends... They all make us stronger! I swear to God...someday, you WILL pay for this!"
"I guess it's not so easy for everyone to act like friends... Well, that's just how it is for now..."
Chapter 5:

"Anyway, there's no time to be depressed. For the sake of everyone we've lost, we have to do our best."
"Everything will be okay. As long as we work together, I'm sure we'll make it out of this...! No, not "I'm sure"... We absolutely WILL make it out, no matter what it takes!"
"At that moment, I finally realized... ...I had never seen the slightest hint of fear or despair in Kyoko Kirigiri's eyes. Her gaze was firmly fixed on the mystery ahead, the enemy standing before us. And with that in view... ...she just smiled."
"No...everything's gonna be fine, I know it...! Because it's Kyoko..."
"No, she'll be fine. It's Kyoko, after all. I'm sure she's fine...right?"
"You can't move forward by always avoiding danger... Even if it's dangerous, we have to overcome the challenges in front of us...!"
"Like a boat tossing in the ocean, my mind had begun to creak and groan."
"Reality was incomprehensible, the truth hopelessly out of reach. All we were left with...was despair."
"I have no choice... I have to investigate. I have to uncover the truth for myself... No matter what, I have to find out what happened. Or we're all dead...!"
"And so, the curtain opened for the fifth time... A deadly judgment... A deadly deception... A deadly betrayal... A deadly riddle, a deadly defense, a deadly faith... A deadly...class trial...!"
"No! Running away isn't gonna solve anything!"
"So I can't give up now! For myself, and for my friend!"
"I feel like I'm blocked in on all sides. But that's still not enough reason to give up. Because...! Because I'm still alive! As long as I'm alive, I'll never give up!"
"Your intuition was right, though. There's no way an ordinary kid like me could've been the mastermind."
Chapter 6:

"Finally... We were finally free. But there wasn't even time to take a breath of relief. Because the real fight had just begun..."
"If we can't defeat the mastermind, it'll cost us our lives...! There is no option except to win!"
"Maybe, but this time the trial is different. We know who our enemy is now. So if we work together and search as hard as we can, I'm sure we'll solve all those mysteries!"
"And I have to do what I can, too...! That's the only way forward!"
"There's only one thing I can do for everyone who's died... And that's...defeat the mastermind! And to do that, I have to continue my investigation. I don't have any other option."
"No...I HAVE to clear all this up!"
"Because all I can do is keep moving forward. That's pretty much all I'm good at, ya know?"
"But no matter what happens, I *won't* lose hope. Even if it's the worst truth in the world... ...I can't afford to lose!"
"It's only natural that they wouldn't believe it... But no matter how much they refuse, if that's the absolute truth, they have no choice...! We can't move forward until they accept it!"
"So if I want to shut him up... ...I need to expose the inconsistency and slam him with it!"
"N-No, of course not! There's no way I'd give up that easy!"
"Damn straight! That's exactly what we're going to do. We're going to solve all these mysteries... And then...we'll have our victory!"
"Still...we have to answer somehow. If we don't, everything ends right here!"
"I don't want to believe... I want it to be impossible... But if it's the truth... ...then we have to accept it!"
"W-Well...even if it's all true... I refuse to give in! I refuse to lose to you! For the sake of everyone you've killed...!"
"No...! This isn't just some game to us! It's murder, plain and simple! You stole our memories, invented reasons for us to do it... You pushed us all into a corner...! It's all your fault!"
"No one... Nobody's gonna give in to despair! We're not gonna lose to you!"
"The final vote... This is it... The ultimate confrontation... I have to show everyone... I have to make them remember! I have to convince them not to give up. To live in despair... That's not really living at all!"
"We won't give up...! As long as there's hope, we'll never give up!"
"If I don't do something, everyone's gonna be consumed by despair...!
"If I don't do something, everyone's gonna be consumed by despair...! You claim there's no hope left in the world. But if despair is contagious like you say... ...the so is hope! I'll use my own hope to plant seeds of hope inside everyone else!"
"I'm not any kind of elite anything. Hope isn't a talent you develop, but... But still... But I still...!"
"I refuse to give up. I refuse to get bored! I refuse to throw it all away! I refuse to despair! Because all I have going for me is the desire to keep moving forward!"
Epilogue:

"A lie... Peaceful as we remember... Well, no matter what it looks like, it's still our world. It's where we're meant to live. And...how do I put this? Unlike this school, the world is really big, right? Since it's so big, I'm sure there must be some despair no matter what. But there also has to be lots of hope...right?"
"But what can we do...? There's so few of us, and we're so small. So what can we do...? ...No, we can probably do anything. Yeah! We can do anything!"
"It looks like hope is spreading. As long as I never give up... I have to push even harder...! I'm going to keep moving forward, with hope in my heart. Since I have hope, I can show courage. Since I have hope... ...I can move ahead. The world...can move ahead."
"The door began to open. With my hands... With *our* hands... Hope and despair mingled together...opening the door to the future..."
Class Trial Interjections:

"NO, THAT'S WRONG!"
"I'VE GOT IT!"
"NOW I UNDERSTAND!"
"HERE'S MY ANSWER!"
"THIS SHOULD PROVE IT!"
"THE KILLER IS... YOU!"
"HERE'S EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED!"
"DON'T LOSE HOPE NOW!"
"HOPE KEEPS ON GOING!"
"I REFUSE TO GIVE UP YET!"
Creation and development
Makoto Naegi Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
Makoto's beta design.

From the planning stages it was decided that Makoto should not have much individuality, which made him difficult for character designer Rui Komatsuzaki to design compared to the other characters whose designs were more unique and distinct. Because the game was initially planned to be played from a third-person perspective from behind Makoto, he was designed wearing a hoodie with a distinctive decal on the hood to give players something to look at. His ahoge was added to give his hair some character, and he was deliberately made shorter than the other male characters in order to give him a 'herbivore man'-type image. His color scheme, though plain, were chosen because they were colors that Komatsuzaki particularly liked.

Trivia
Naegi means "seedlings" in Japanese, and Makoto means "faithfulness".
This could reference how he spreads hope to everyone, similar to how Junko tried to plant "seeds of despair".
Makoto's hobbies include watching TV and playing video games.
In Chapter 2, it was revealed that Makoto's secret for Monokuma's motive was that he wet his bed until 5th grade.
According to Makoto Naegi Secret File, it is revealed that Makoto wasn't the first chosen for his year to be Ultimate Lucky Student, but rather events pertaining to his bad luck led to another draw occurring.
In DISTRUST he is not shown to have a name. Instead 主人公(Protagonist) is used as a placeholder.
The "gas mask symbol" on the back of his hood has some meanings:
It represents protection, referring to how he did not get killed and how Alter Ego saved him from his execution.
It acts like a reference to "Zero" from the game, "999". Another existing reference to "999" was mentioned by Makoto in the end of the fourth Class Trial.
Makoto is the one of the few characters to survive more than one killing game. The others are Aoi, Kyoko and Hajime/Izuru.
Byakuya and Makoto are the only characters to appear in every canon games and anime of the Hope's Peak Academy Saga.
The official reload artbook reveals that A Man's Fantasy is his favorite Free Time present. A Man's Fantasy is an Easter egg present which allows Makoto and the other male cast members to peek at the girls taking a bath.
Makoto Naegi Report Card (Talent Reveal)
In the first game, after being given the title "Ultimate Hope" near the end of the game, his e-Handbook profile lists his title as "Ultimate Despair". This is not a translation error, as it was the same way in the Japanese text.
In the non-canon Danganronpa V3 bonus mode, Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Celestia challenged him and Nagito to mahjong to test their luck. She then suggested they add the headmaster, Jin Kirigiri, to even things out. This is likely a reference to an official art from Danganronpa 1.2 Reload where the same event happened.
Makoto appears as a guest character in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent. His Max ATK is 7220 while his Max HP is 7380. His weapon is despair bat and its ability is doubled attack power. His deathblow is "Refuted", which causes small damage to all enemies within reach.
Makoto is also included in the collaboration of Danganronpa 3 x Hōkai Gakuen.
05-22
Makoto in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent.
Girls Gun 2 x Danganronpa Game Makoto Naegi
Makoto in the Danganronpa 3 x Hōkai Gakuen collaboration.

Makoto's MC sprite
Makoto appears in Mystery Chronicle: One Way Heroics as the Ultimate Student class, being one of three designs available for it alongside Komaru and Monokuma.
The profile for the Ultimate Students states, You are the Ult. student. You may be the best, but you're just a student...You're not very good at close range combat. Master the various Truth Bullet (TB) skills and survive in this harsh world.
Makoto and Nagito share voice actors in both the Japanese and English dub. This is because Nagito's character is based on Makoto and he acts as his darker parallel.
Makoto is the only character to retain his original voice actor from the game for the English dub of Danganronpa anime adaptation.
Makoto and his sister Komaru (voiced by Megumi Ogata and Aya Uchida) perform Danganronpa Another Episode's ending theme Progressive -Zan Shin- together.



Aoi Asahina (朝日奈 葵 Asahina Aoi), also known as Hina, is a student in Hope's Peak Academy's Class 78th, and a participant of the Killing School Life featured in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc. Her title is Ultimate Swimming Pro (超高校級の「スイマー」chō kōkō kyū no "suimā." lit. Super High School Level Swimmer).

Years later, she is a participant of the Final Killing Game featured in Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School with the Future Foundation heads.

Aoi is around 19 years old in the first game, though she believed herself to be 17 because of the memory loss. By the end of Danganronpa 3, she is a few years older and in her early twenties, around 21 at least.

She has tanned skin, blue eyes, and a rather curvaceous body that is usually the subject of Toko Fukawa/Genocide Jack's harassment. She wears her brown hair in a ponytail, which becomes spikier when she gets upset and droops when she's sad.

During the daily life, Aoi wears blue athletic shorts, a red track suit jacket over a white tank top, white knee high socks, and green sneakers. In one of her official artworks, she wears a blue bathing suit with a white box logo on the front with some Japanese characters that spell her last name and a single white stripe on the right side of her bust.

As a member of the Future Foundation, Aoi wears a modified version of the standard female business suit, featuring a green tie and shorts instead of a skirt. Under her suit jacket and dress shirt, she wears a white tank top similar to the one she wore back in Hope's Peak Academy. Her ponytail is set further down on her head and seems slightly longer than before.


Aoi's appearance in Danganronpa 1.
Danganronpa 3 Aoi Asahina Fullbody
Aoi's Future Foundation attire in Danganronpa 3.

Personality 
Aoi is a friendly girl to the other classmates during the Killing School Life, being the first person to offer to introduce themselves to Makoto Naegi. She quickly forms a good friendship with Sakura and tries to get Toko and Chihiro Fujisaki involved in their activities, even if they don't want to be involved.

She can be quite air-headed, such as trying to write down Makoto's name on her hand despite lacking a pen. Although not unintelligent by any means, she has a tendency to jump to conclusions and take things at face value, which leaves her vulnerable to misdirection in Class Trials. For instance, Aoi easily fell for Celestia Ludenberg's trap, tricking her into believing Yasuhiro Hagakure killed Kiyotaka Ishimaru and Hifumi Yamada.

Prone to getting emotional, Aoi has a strong sense of belief in her friends, giving her a powerful desire to protect them. This is especially seen especially regarding the issue of death; she cried over the death of Hifumi while holding his head in her chest, and had difficulty accepting Kyoko Kirigiri's supposed death in Danganronpa 3. She can be quite temperamental at times, such as being disgusted when Celeste revealed her motive for killing Kiyotaka and Hifumi. In Chapter 4, she tried to have everyone killed, including herself, after the death of Sakura, after being tricked by the Mastermind into believing she killed herself in a fit of despair; due to the note she read, she believed everyone, including herself, to be responsible for the Ultimate Martial Artist's death.

Despite being an athlete, she also really enjoys sweet foods, such as obsessing over donuts and monopolizing the sweet jar in Chapter 4. She is often hungry and at one time threatened to hit Makoto when hungry in one of her Free Time events. However, she is worried about her weight and about getting fat.

She often quotes famous sports people and their inspirational quotes before Free Time Events. Her final Free Time sequence reveals Aoi's insecurity about not being feminine enough due to her being an athlete. She is also secretly a fan of Jason Statham.

In Danganronpa 3, Aoi is the mood-maker. She has grown into a reliable young woman, though she still gets a little wrapped up in her wrong impressions.While still a bit air-headed, she has also retained her positive outlook. She is seen very willing to take action to help her friends, like carrying Makoto and trying to fight threats. She is also very affectionate towards her friends, as she is seen hugging Kyoko.

Talent and Abilities 
Ultimate Swimming Pro 
Danganronpa 1 Aoi Asahina English Game IntroductionAoi sees herself as to have to keep moving in order to survive, showing her impatience with inactivity. This goes to the extent of joining six sports teams, with her primary and favorite sport being swimming. She is quite competitive, preferring competition to winning in sports, and is aiming for the Gold Medal in the Olympics. Her younger brother Yuta, a very powerful athlete himself, admits that Aoi is a better swimmer than him.
In other 
Aoi's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

Ultimate Swimming Pro
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「スイマー」	Super High School Level Swimmer
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"游泳選手"	Super High School Level Swimmer
中文超高校级的"游泳选手"	Super High School Level Swimmer(DRtA)
DeutschSuper-Schwimmerin	Super-Swimmer (DRtA)
Français La Nageuse Ultime	Ultimate Swimmer (DRV3)
ItalianoSuper Nuotatrice Liceale	Super High School Level Swimmer(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Nadadora	Super High School Student Level: Swimmer (DRtA)
Combat Ability 
While she is not as strong as more experienced fighters, Aoi is perfectly capable of holding her own in a fight. This was shown when she and Juzo Sakakura engaged in a fight with weapons; she managed to dodge most of his attacks, and even pinned his weapon to the ground.

Though it is worth noting that Juzo's fighting abilities were limited due to his NG code and he didn't possess much skill in weapon combat.

Physical Ability 
Due to her athletic background, Aoi is much stronger than her petite frame suggests. She has been shown to run at top speed for extended periods of time while carrying Makoto around on her back, and she easily moved a large piece of furniture that Makoto and Ryota Mitarai couldn't even budge when working together.


Prior to the 
Ever since elementary school, Aoi has broken records for every swimming contest she had entered. She was very close to her younger brother, Yuta.

While attending Asunaro High School, Aoi was scouted by Hope's Peak Academy as part of the 78th Class.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc 
Episode 05 - The Beginning of the End 
Aoi's picture can be briefly seen on the pile of student registration forms that Jin Kirigiri places on his desk, along with Kyoko, Kiyotaka Ishimaru, and Celestia Ludenberg.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Sheltering the schoolAoi is seen briefly in the episode, picking out some tools with Kyoko as the rest of the students of Class 78th continue barricading the old school building.
During the 
During the Tragedy, Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of the Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction outside. His plan was agreed upon by the class, and they sealed the building together and lived peacefully inside it for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.

The true Ultimate Despair took away the 78th Class' school memories so they could participate in the Killing School Life.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy 
Danganronpa 1 CG - Students at the School EntranceWhen they reunited at the school entrance, none of the students recognized each other and they reintroduced themselves. Aoi quickly adapted to the others and started to befriend Sakura.
Prologue - Welcome to 
When Makoto goes to meet Aoi, she immediately forgets his name. After Makoto states it, she writes it three times on her hand but asks what characters are used to spell Makoto's last name. She then states she forgot how "Naegi" is spelled and promises to look it up later.

Chapter 1 - To 
Aoi is scared after she watched the DVD that Monokuma gives to the students, so she asks Sakura to stay in her room at one night. Aoi and Sakura played the key role of witness in the first trial, as they had seen Sayaka Maizono, the victim of the murder case, enter the kitchen while they were hanging out in the cafeteria. They helped Makoto deduce that Sayaka herself was the one who took the knife from the kitchen, not her killer.

Chapter 2 - Boy's Life of 
After Monokuma opened the shelters to the third floor, Aoi seemed pretty excited when she found out about the swimming pool. However, nobody wanted to accompany her to go swimming.

Chapter 3 - A Next Generation Legend!
Danganronpa 1 CG - Aoi Asahina upset over the deathsOn the night after the conclusion of the second trial, a depressed Aoi wandered out of her room in search of donuts in the Cafeteria. However, she heard weird sounds coming from the changing room near the bath. When she approached one of the lockers in the room, she saw someone who looked similar to the recently deceased Chihiro. In fear, she screamed and returned to her room.
The next morning, Aoi was temporarily absent from the usual meeting under the excuse of not feeling well. When she went to the Cafeteria to eat donuts, the others just happened to return from their investigation. Concerned, they asked why she was absent during the morning meeting. To their surprise, Aoi said that she had seen Chihiro's 'spirit' wandering in the changing room. When they went to the aforementioned place to confirm Aoi's claim, they discovered that the ghost whom Aoi saw was Alter Ego, the Artificial Intelligence that was made by Chihiro.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Aoi Asahina cradling a dying Hifumi Yamada (1)After searching for some time, Aoi and the others finally found Taka and Hifumi's bodies in the art room. Devastated by the sudden death of her two friends, Aoi put Hifumi's head on her lap and cried for him. Surprisingly, Hifumi regained his consciousness with enough time to speak the last name (Yasuhiro) of the culprit. However, he died due to his severe wounds.
Chapter 4 - All●Star●
Following the conclusion of the third trial, Monokuma revealed Sakura's identity as the mole in their group. Shocked by the sudden turn of events, Aoi immediately came to Sakura's side to protect her from Byakuya Togami, Toko, and Yasuhiro's accusation. However, this would only serve to widen the gap between them.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Aoi Asahina striking Byakuya TogamiAs time went by, Aoi gradually became more emotional, even getting into a fight with Byakuya and Toko. When Sakura found out about this, she decided to make a plan to meet up with Byakuya, Toko, and Yasuhiro in the game room to clear things up. Aoi was against the plan, but Sakura insisted on it. Sakura also sent a letter to Aoi, which explained that she would commit suicide in order to cease the dispute between the students. Unfortunately for Sakura, Monokuma swapped the letter with a fake, intending to sow further chaos among the students by claiming that Sakura had taken her life out of despair.
Finding herself worried about Sakura's well-being, Aoi immediately went to the game room, only to find that Sakura was badly wounded in her head due to Yasuhiro's and Toko's assault. Even though she was not in a condition to speak, Sakura shrugged off Aoi's worry and requested Aoi to get protein powder from the laboratory to treat her wound. Unknown to Aoi, Sakura was planning to commit suicide that time.

Upon arriving at the laboratory and seeing spilled poison on the floor, Aoi finally realized what Sakura was attempting to do and immediately returned to the game room to check up on Sakura's condition. However, the door could not be opened because a chair prevented the door handle from moving. From the outside, Aoi could see Sakura sitting on the chair, lifeless.

After Kyoko and Makoto confirmed Sakura's death, Aoi was at a loss. Internally, she blamed the others, since she had found a letter from Sakura which claimed that she had committed suicide due to the hostility among the students. Filled with despair and fury borne of grief, Aoi immediately resolved to deliberately misdirect the investigation, hoping to get all of them executed by identifying the wrong person as the culprit.

In the trial, Aoi became very aggressive and quick to blame others as Sakura's murderer, alerting everyone that she knew something they didn't. When the truth about Sakura's suicide finally came out, she insisted that she was the one who killed Sakura. However, Makoto managed to solve the mysteries surrounding Sakura’s death and foiled Aoi's plan.

When the trial was over, Monokuma revealed that he had switched the suicide letter with the fake one. He then went on to read the contents of the true letter. Most of the students, especially Aoi, were surprised to find out that Sakura sacrificed herself for their sake. She briefly feared that the others would turn on her for nearly getting them all killed, but the students decided to reconcile and unite their strength in order to take down the Mastermind.

Chapter 5 - 100 Mile Dash; Pain of a Junk Food 
Chapter 6 - Ultimate Pain, Ultimate Suffering, Ultimate Despair, Ultimate Execution, Ultimate 
As the true perpetrator was revealed to be Junko Enoshima, Aoi was one of the students who was shocked that the 'Junko Enoshima' they met was actually Junko's twin sister, Mukuro Ikusaba, and remained stunned over the state of the world. In particular, Aoi was crippled by the knowledge that her fellow students were longtime friends before having their memories removed; coupled with the knowledge that they were essentially killing each other over nothing, she was teetering on the verge of despair.

Aoi was motivated by Makoto's words that hope is still alive, causing her to recall Sakura's quote as if she was still alive: "Strength is only obtained through unshaken bravery". Realizing that Sakura would want her to move on in memory of the fallen, she decided to believe in Makoto.

Along with the rest of her friends, Aoi witnessed Makoto - the newly-minted "Ultimate Hope" - managing to defeat Junko, leading to her executing herself in a special punishment. With Junko dead, the School Killing Life was finally over, and the survivors found an escape switch that would allow them to leave the academy.

Epilogue - Goodbye Despair 
Danganronpa ep 13 Makoto pressing the Graduation buttonConsidering their torments are finally over, Aoi would begin to wonder if a donut shop would appear when she returned to the real world before she bade farewell to her fellow friends. She became one of the six survivors to escape the school.
Joining the Future 
Aoi and the others survived together in the apocalyptic world until they were found by the Future Foundation. They decided to join Future Foundation to fight against despair and Future Foundation helped them to recover their school memories. Aoi became a member of the 13th Branch.

Danganronpa Gaiden: Killer 
Chapter 3 - Bessatsu Shounen Zetsubou 
Aoi was seen in the explanation of the Tragedy, along with the survivors of the Killing School Life as one of the people integral in stopping the Tragedy's mastermind, Junko Enoshima.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Aoi appears in the anime sequel, Danganronpa 3 - Future Arc, along with Makoto, Kyoko, and Yasuhiro.

Aoi is allowed to attend Makoto's trial as a proxy for the 13th Branch Leader, and thus gets herself roped into the "Final Killing Game" with the other Branch Leaders.

Her NG Code is "be hit with a punch or kick."

Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
Aoi, along with Kyoko and Yasuhiro greeted Makoto as he arrived at the off-shore facility. After the group arrived at the boardroom, Aoi protested Kyosuke Munakata who immediately ordered Juzo Sakakura to handcuff Makoto without any discussion first. She attempts to defend Makoto from the physical abuse but is silenced when a kunai is thrown in her direction by Sonosuke Izayoi. Ruruka threatens her, saying that next time she would order him not to miss.

In the meeting's recess, Aoi and Kyoko go to the bathroom just down the hall from the meeting place. She was upset that she and Kyoko weren't permitted to visit Makoto, and questions why. Kyoko explained that it was because that was how much they suspected the two of them, excluding Aoi from the problem. Aoi protested, saying that just because she was in a different Division doesn't mean that she wasn't going to continue to stick with Kyoko and Makoto.

During the attack on the facility, the building began quaking and Aoi grabbed the bathroom stall handle to try and balance herself. She opens the door and is horrified to discover the bodies of three dead security guards crammed inside. Aoi rushes into the boardroom to tell the other leaders about the dead bodies and is overcome by sleeping gas soon after.

Episode 02 - Hang the 
After Monokuma told them the rules of the new killing game, Aoi jumped to Makoto's defense countless of times when the others accused him of being the traitor. Shortly after Daisaku Bandai's demise: Kyoko created a diversion and Aoi, Great Gozu and Miaya Gekkogahara helped Makoto escape harm from Juzo and Kyosuke.

As Aoi ran in front of Makoto, repeatedly telling him to hurry up, he reveals to her that his NG code states that he cannot run in the hallway. Seeing no other option, Aoi carries him on her back and runs to safety. When they hit a dead end and Great Gozu comes smashing through the wall thanks to Kyosuke, Aoi throws a broken extinguisher at Kyosuke so Great Gozu can cut off his defense, giving time for Great Gozu to body slam into the ground for him, Makoto, Aoi, and Miaya to escape the ruthless Kyosuke.

As Great Gozu barricades the door so no one can get in, Aoi and Makoto share a heart warming moment just as they're about to fall asleep, as they do Aoi thanks Makoto for being there for her.

As Makoto wakes up, he finds blood on his hands, causing him to look over to see Aoi, apparently dead with a knife lodged in her chest.

Episode 03 - Cruel Violence and Hollow Words 
Makoto and Miaya (via Monomi) panic over seeing Aoi's "dead" body, but as the sleeping drug wore off, Aoi woke up with a yawn, surprised to see herself covered in "blood". As it turned out the knife was a toy and the blood was tomato sauce. As Aoi looked up, she saw Great Gozu's body, looking very shocked.

After Great Gozu's body is taken down, Aoi commented on the fact that the attacker somehow got into the room, and is saddened that Great Gozu was killed. She took off her jacket and covers Great Gozu's body with it as a sign of respect. Aoi is determined that the group will survive and find the killer and stated that they will find the killer by using Makoto.

When Makoto said that he would like to talk to everyone, Miaya suggested him to use the building's intercom system. Aoi questioned what the building is and Miaya explained that this was going to be an overseas version of Hope's Peak Academy, but when the Tragedy struck Kyosuke made it his base.

After finding the intercom system, Aoi walked with Makoto and Miaya when Makoto asks if Miaya can't turn right. After Makoto showed Miaya his NG Code, Aoi showed the group hers, apologized that she was sorry for not protecting him during the vote. After Makoto forgives her and tells her not to do anything risky, Aoi agreed with Miaya calling them "Soul Mates".

When Makoto is about to speak, Aoi silenced him saying she heard someone. She told Makoto she will draw them away, telling him to head to the Monitoring room. Aoi quickly ran off, with Miaya following behind her, drawing Seiko Kimura, who was wandering the hallways to follow them. After Seiko followed the two of them, Aoi and Miaya hide behind some rubble and listen to Makoto's speech.

Episode 04 - Who is a 
Aoi and Miaya escaped from their hiding place after they heard an explosion. On the way, they met with Kazuo Tengan's group and Aoi gladly reunited with Kyoko. She also thanked Ryota Mitarai for saving her life before from being hit by Juzo. Proceeding with a new plan, Aoi and Miaya escorted Kazuo to negotiate with Kyosuke.

Arriving at the scene, Kazuo tried to distract Kyosuke while Aoi came down to untie Makoto and brought him back and escaped from Kyosuke to hide in a safe place. Aoi believed that the three of them had run far enough from Kyosuke and decided to take a breath. Miaya noticed that someone has been following them and offered to stop them. Aoi didn't want her to go alone but eventually agreed to stay by Makoto's side, promising her to eat donuts together after everything came to an end.

Episode 05 - Dreams of Distant 
After Juzo knocked down Miaya, Aoi and Makoto encounter him. Makoto insists for her to escape, but not taking Makoto's advice, she instead grabs a metal pipe to fight Juzo. She mocks the former Ultimate Boxer for using a weapon to fight her instead of his bare fists.

Aoi was in the middle of her fight with Juzo when Seiko and the reactivated Miaya came and interrupted it. Seeing that as a chance to escape, Aoi brought Makoto on her back and fled from the scene.

Episode 06 - No Man is an Island 
Aoi was worried about Makoto who was having nightmare after the third time limit hit. Aoi and Makoto using Miaya's computer search for the third victim and found that Chairman Kazuo died at Kyosuke's hands. Aoi comforted Makoto to share his burden with her when they discovered Kazuo's dying letter. She stated that if it's not for her NG Code, she could find a way to put an end to the "game."

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair 
It was revealed by Monaca Towa, the controller of Miaya that she was the one who faked Aoi's death only to see Makoto's reaction to her fake death.

Episode 08 - Who Killed Cock Robin 
Aoi overhears Makoto's last segment of conversation with Komaru Naegi on the Miaya Monitoring screen, in which they took about Monaca's recent explanation that someone from 'Big-Sis Junko's Killing Game' will die because of Makoto.

After the connection is cut short, Aoi expressed that Makoto is a good brother to Komaru, which reminded her of her deceased brother. As Miaya entered auto-remote activity mode, Aoi leads him out a whole in the wall to safety, reminding him that he can run as it's not a specific hallway. But upon their escape, they run into Kyosuke who seeks to eradicate both of them, considering them despair. Miaya immediately comes to their aid, battling Kyosuke and keeping him occupied as Aoi questions Makoto on what they should do to which he answers that they should escape while they can. Aoi boosts Makoto up onto her shoulders, running in the opposite direction to Kyosuke. Makoto tells Aoi that they need to find Kyoko before Byakuya came to rescue them.

Episode 09 - You are My Reason to Die 
They eventually find Kyoko who is explaining to Ryota about how Makoto is her savior, Aoi and Makoto shows up behind her and Aoi giggles at the awkward situation. Aoi, Makoto, Kyoko, and Ryota eat and drink in an unknown room, before Kyoko gives her comforting words to Makoto showing her support, Aoi smiles at this. Eventually, they decide to barricade the doors to the room before the time limit is up, Makoto and Ryota both struggle to push a large object in the way of the door so Aoi helps them and has no trouble. After they fall unconscious from sleeping drug they wake up to find Kyoko dead, Aoi breaks down in tears and becomes even more shocked at Munakata's message over the intercom explaining that Kyoko's NG code proves how useless Makoto's platitudes are.

Episode 10 - Death, Destruction, Despair 
Aoi continued to cry over Kyoko's death. Seeing that, Makoto asked Ryota to stay with Aoi explaining that he will go and speak with Kyosuke. Ryota protested as to why Makoto is recovering from the trauma so quickly, after only just finding out about Kyoko's death. Aoi stopped crying as Makoto explained that Kyoko entrusted her hope to him and since this is the case he has to stop Kyosuke. Aoi rested her hand on Makoto's shoulder, stating that she 'believes in him' to which Makoto replies that he'll 'be back soon'.

Aoi leans against the doorway before heading back to where Kyoko is lying, as she looked at her once more she noticed the notebook Kyoko has left for them, hiding underneath her body.

Aoi and Ryota are able to find Makoto and Kyosuke in another room and Aoi rushed over to Makoto asking if he is alright, before staring at Kyosuke angrily, she proclaimed that the killing stops now, expressing that she knows who the attacker is, Aoi held up Kyoko's notebook.

Episode 11 - All Good Things 
A flashback is shown, revealing the point in time when the Future Foundation is observing the end of the Killing School Life. The vault door of Hope's Peak Academy is opened, Aoi and the remainder of the 78th class survey the despair laying around them, she has an expression of shock.

Back to present time, Makoto requested Kyosuke listen to Aoi, to which he agreed. She began to show Makoto the pages of Kyoko's notebook.

After discovering the participants commit suicide when they look at the monitor, Makoto requested Kyosuke tie him up facing one. Aoi became worried for Makoto after his request is followed out, she is afraid he may die and that he is doing something rash because of what happened to Kyoko. Makoto explaining to her that he won't die because Kyoko didn't give up on hope so he can't either and that he promised Komaru he'd come and get her after this was all over, Aoi became slightly reassured by this.

Aoi waited for the time limit in a nearby room free of monitors with Ryota and Kyosuke. Clasping her hands, the timer goes off with Aoi still thinking of Makoto before falling unconscious from the sleeping drug.

After everyone is awake, Makoto proceeds to the nearby room accommodating Aoi, Kyosuke, and Ryota. He confirmed with Aoi and the rest of the participants that the monitors broadcast a video of despair; shattering the monitor, Aoi discovered a knife hidden inside. She is surprised to hear from Kyosuke that other than himself, Kazuo has authority to install equipment through the building, leading her to believe that Kazuo may be the mastermind behind the Final Killing Game.

Juzo made his way to the power room, turning all switches off to free Aoi and the rest of the surviving participants from the game and cut the power to the monitors, Aoi acknowledged this. When Ryota revealed that Junko was using his anime technique, Aoi shocked by this wants him to explain further but is interrupted when Ryota receives a message from the deceased Tengan on his mobile phone.

Episode 12 - It is Always Darkest 
Aoi and Makoto noticed Ryota has received a video message from the deceased Kazuo. Upon watching, they discovered Kazuo may have been a Remnant of Despair as he admitted to setting up the Final Killing Game. Ryota collapsed to the floor, in anguish over being betrayed but Aoi tried to be optimistic, saying the wristbands are removed so they are free of the game, now they can look to the future. Ryota expressed that he couldn't run away, not as he did back when Junko used him for his techniques to create the Despair Video. This time, he had to fight by showing everyone the opposite video of Despair Video, the Hope Video. As he began to walk away, Aoi rushed in front of him, convincing him to reconsider his choices, as Makoto and she felt that a hope video would only force people to believe in hope rather than changing their attitude by themselves.

Ryota reached for his phone and showed Aoi his Hope Video, brainwashing her to follow his command, he told her to restrain Makoto and willingly ordered his command, and to Makoto's anger, Ryota is able to get away. The Future Foundation's rescue squad have also been put into a brainwashed state under Ryota's control and immediately find Aoi and Makoto. They are set ready to fire at them both, Makoto telling Aoi to run although she continues to restrain him. Kyosuke then comes to their rescue, knocking the soldiers to the ground.

Aoi is able to break free of her brainwashed state upon Kyosuke's return and they all then hatched a plan to stop Ryota before it is too late. Kyosuke draws away the rescue squad's attention as Aoi and Makoto continuing to run the halls in search of Ryota. However, Aoi was shot in the leg, forcing both of Aoi and Makoto to take shelter in a nearby room where they cannot be seen.

After Makoto bandaged up Aoi's leg, she explained to Makoto that he needed to stop Ryota and that she will be fine, although she is still grimacing in pain. Makoto reluctantly leaves her and heads off to stop Ryota, saying he will return for her. Before too long, Makoto is cornered by the rescue squad and Aoi is discovered by them, unconscious.

Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Yasuhiro and Byakuya are able to find Aoi and come to her aid. Yasuhiro began tying fresh bandages around Aoi's leg before expressing that Togami got buried in rubble laughingly to Aoi's shock, although Byakuya explained to her that they were saved by the Class 77-B. She then asked after Makoto, Byakuya reassuring her that he is being escorted by half of his operatives.

Makoto later met up with Aoi, Yasuhiro and Byakuya underneath a tent, they all greet him warmly, relieved he is unharmed. Noticing a video on Byakuya's laptop, Aoi and the rest of the group surrounded the screen, Byakuya explained that the Class 77-B broadcasted a message of 'despair', proclaiming they set up the Final Killing Game in order for the Future Foundation to still look favorable.

The Class 77-B set off for Jabberwock island by boat, Aoi and Yasuhiro both wave them off warmly.

Several months after the Final Killing Game was over, Makoto became the principal of a newly built Hope's Peak Academy and is working alongside Kyoko. Aoi and Toko both helped move boxes of materials, Komaru offering them each a drink, to which they offer their thanks.


Water Illusion Show - Aoi is put in a water tank. From above, Monokuma, dressed as a magician, appears and waves his staff. A curtain falls, raising again with a drum roll. Many sharks can be seen in the tank, surrounding Aoi. Once again, Monokuma waves his staff and the curtain falls. As the drum rolls and the curtain rises, Aoi isn't in the tank anymore, because she had been eaten by the sharks. This execution is described in the Danganronpa Visual Fanbook.



Yuta Asahina 
Yuta is Aoi's little brother and the person closest to her. This is confirmed when Yuta become Aoi's Captive when Monokuma attempts to motivate her to kill. The two are both exceptional swimmers, although Yuta claims Aoi was always better. Aoi is aware that her brother was killed in Towa City, and shows great sadness over his death. Makoto and Komaru's relationship reminded her of Yuta, and she seemed somewhat upset as the two talked.

Class 78
Sakura 
Sakura was Aoi's best friend during her time at Hope's Peak Academy. The two shared very similar interests, such as drinking protein beverages and first bonded over their love for sports. They were rarely ever seen apart since their high school days. Sakura was always the first person Aoi would turn to, especially during the Killing School Life, and she affectionately addressed her friend as Sakura-chan. On the other hand, Sakura was extremely protective of Aoi and usually tried to keep her from trouble.

During the Killing School Life, when Sakura was revealed to be the mole, Aoi had the most trouble believing this and still believed in Sakura even after she confirmed this in which she still respects her. When the some of the other students refused to accept her friend, Aoi was the only one who acted angrily when she defended Sakura by going too far as slapping Byakuya for badmouthing her and physically fight Toko/Genocide Jack. However, her actions only made Sakura more worried about Aoi's safety.

When Sakura committed suicide, Aoi was left devastated, and wailed and shed tears over her death. Upon reading Monokuma's falsified suicide note, she was left to believe that Sakura had committed suicide in despair and that she and the other students were to blame. As a result, she attempted to get herself and the remaining students executed, her plans were ultimately thwarted by Makoto and Kyoko.

Upon discovering the truth about Sakura's reason for killing herself, Aoi broke down into tears and demanded that Monokuma give her Sakura's actual letter, however, this request is obviously denied. Although depressed about Sakura's demise, Aoi decided to continue to move forward and remembers Sakura throughout the rest of the killing game. When Aoi nearly fell into despair, her memories of Sakura, along with encouragement from Makoto, were what gave her hope when she decided to break out of Hope's Peak Academy and avenge her friend's death.

In Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Sakura and Aoi agree to go to the Olympics together. With Sakura as master of the land and Aoi as master of the water.

Makoto 
Although not sharing any kind of close relationship with Aoi when they first met, Makoto becomes close friends with her during their time together at Hope's Peak. During one of her Free Time events, Aoi requests that Makoto act as her fake boyfriend so she can practice when she gets a real one. Their closeness is also shown when Aoi is shown feeling guilty about having executed Makoto and she seems happy when he forgives her.

As members of the Future Foundation, the two have grown considerably closer. Makoto makes sure Aoi doesn't overdo things while Aoi frequently tells him that everything is okay. When Makoto is arrested for betraying the Future Foundation, Aoi (along with Kyoko) help defend him, and she also helps him escape from Kyosuke when the latter tries to kill him. Makoto gives Aoi hope after she despairs at the fact that they must start a new round of killing.

Aoi remains with Makoto throughout most of the Final Killing Game, and she helps him escape from Kyosuke and Juzo numerous times. Makoto constantly relies on her and is thankful for the help she has given him. Despite this, Makoto worries for her safety, particularly when she attempts to fight Juzo despite being at a disadvantage due to her NG code. However, Aoi has been shown to be perfectly willing to risk her life if it guaranteed her friend's safety.

Aoi and Makoto have been shown to understand one another when deaths or murders occur, even since the Killing School Life. Makoto's understanding of Aoi's emotional side is ultimately what allowed him to thwart her plans to have them executed in Chapter 4. During the Final Killing Game, when Kyoko supposedly dies, Aoi fears that Makoto would become reckless and hurt himself, despite Makoto assuring her that he wouldn't let their friend's sacrifice go to waste.

The two also comfort each other when these events occur. When Kazuo is murdered by Kyosuke, Aoi gives Makoto support and gives him hope just as he did her. After his conversation with Komaru, Makoto realizes that they may have reminded Aoi of Yuta. He appeared to want to comfort his friend, he was unable to do so as they were interuppted by Miaya revealing her robotic nature.

During the Final Killing Game, some of Aoi's expressions indicate that she knows Makoto and Kyoko like each other, and she appears silently very happy for them.

After the events of The Tragedy have been resolved, Makoto, Aoi, and their fellow survivors decide to rebuild Hope's Peak Academy together.

Kyoko 
Aoi becomes close friends to Kyoko after joining the Future Foundation with her and the other survivors. Aoi helps Kyoko protect Makoto, despite her protests and warning that she may be treated as a co-conspirator by doing so.

In Danganronpa 3, Aoi addresses Kyoko as Kyoko-chan, showing how strong their friendship has gotten. They also hug each other when they find out the other is alright during the Final Killing Game. Some of Aoi's expressions indicate that she knows Kyoko and Makoto like each other, and she appears silently very happy for them. Aoi sheds tears and wails loudly over Kyoko's supposed death.

When Kyoko is revealed to actually have survived, the two help run Hope's Peak Academy together with their fellow survivors.

Byakuya 
Aoi disliked Byakuya at the very start of Killing School Life because of his claims that he will get all the students killed for his survival. Their relationship only worsened when Sakura was revealed to be Monokuma's mole and Byakuya started insulting her. Aoi immediately stepped up to defend her best friend, and Aoi even slapped Byakuya and threatened to kill him in fury. Byakuya thought of Aoi as an annoyance and the two had many arguments until they escaped the school together.

As members of the Future Foundation, the two become friends instead and put their life of Killing School Life behind them.

Toko Fukawa/Genocide 
Aoi was disliked by both Toko and Jack. Despite this Aoi was the only one who actually tried to talk with Toko. Toko is often jealous of Aoi's physical attributes, attributes she herself did not possess and proceeds to call her names throughout which meant Aoi could never truly develop a friendship with Toko as positive feelings from her were always one-sided. Toko was very furious when Aoi slapped Byakuya and began to argue with her the next day about Sakura. Jack injured Aoi's shoulder causing a further rift between the two and it was at this point where Aoi started to develop feelings of hatred for Toko despite before reaching out to her in friendship.

In Danganronpa Another Episode, she was envied by Toko because she became a formal member of the Future Foundation. However, the two later managed to put their past behind them and appear to become friends.

Yasuhiro 
A fellow survivor of the Killing School Life and member of the Future Foundation. Aoi is weirded out the most by Yasuhiro's eccentric behavior out of all her classmates and often times find his remarks tiresome. Aoi is never hesitant to point out Yasuhiro's lack of understanding in certain matters and is often contradictory to his point of view, not necessarily caring about how he will react. However upon joining the Future Foundation after their Killing School Life both seem to have developed a friendship, waving the Class 77-B off together as they left for Jabberwock Island once more.

Hifumi 
Aoi does not interact with Hifumi often and can become uncomfortable around him due to his obsessive behavior over his various desires, Aoi and Hifumi never strike a considerable friendship. When Hifumi is found near death in a storage room, Aoi holds his head in her lap and sheds tears over his passing. Showing such a sheer amount of emotion over Hifumi's death in comparison to all other victims perhaps shows that nevertheless finding her classmates odd or strange, they are still companions to her and she still cares very much about their well being.

Future Foundation 
Miaya 
Miaya and Aoi weren't on good terms when Aoi first arrived, the two barely interacting. After Aoi escaped with Makoto, Miaya helped the two escape, but when Aoi tried to pat Miaya on the head, she flinched away. However, Aoi stated that she was worried about Miaya before she flinched away.

After being barricaded in the room by Great Gozu, Miaya and Aoi grow closer as Miaya (through Usami) freaks out over Aoi's faked death. When Makoto, Aoi and Miaya leave the room, Aoi agreed with Miaya when she called them "Soul Mates" and both her and Miaya run ahead so Makoto could easily reach the Monitoring Room. The two later hide together from Seiko.

However, it is eventually revealed that the real Miaya was murdered a certain time before the events of the Final Killing Game. The Miaya accompanying Aoi and Makoto was nothing more than a robotic puppet controlled by Monaca and sent to infiltrate the Future Foundation as a lurker. As such, there is no real personal relationship between Miaya and Aoi.


Komaru 
Aoi likes Makoto's younger sister, referring to her as Komaru-chan. They appear to have become friends, although it's unknown whether Aoi was informed of Komaru's connection to her little brother.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Aoi Asahina & School Mode/Aoi Asahina
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Aoi in order to learn more about her. If he gives Aoi a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Aoi will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Aoi's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

1234567
Aoi Asahina Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Yoga	Towel treatment	Bamboo beatdown
Swimming	Bouldering	Going home
Churros	Cookies	Donuts
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 12 Flotation Donut DR1 Present 16 Kitten Hairclip DR1 Present 26 G Sick DR1 Present 36 Waterlover DR1 Present 38 Astral Boy Doll


Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Aoi grants the following skills:

Extraordinary Focus	Increases the Focus Gauge by 2.
Effective during Class Trials.	2 SP
Ambidextrousness	Lock on to two statements at once.
Effective during Bullet Time Battle.	4 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Aoi AsahinaMakoto is able to see inside Aoi's dorm room during Free Time events. Her room reflects her passion for fitness, including exercise routine charts, a medicine ball, resistance bands, a dumbbell, a step machine, her bathing suit, gym bag and running shoes. She also has a large first aid kit, due to being very accident prone.

DR1ExtraDR3
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"Everyone just calm down! Listen, why don't we all go around and introduce ourselves?"
"Heya! I'm Aoi Asahina! But my friends just call me Hina. 'Sup?"
"You don't know? If you wanna remember someone's name, you gotta write it on your hand three times!"
Chapter 1:

"Well for now, let's forget all that silly junk about murderers or whatever. Now that we know the rules, let's start exploring the school!"
"I feel like I could just cry... But no, I have to hold it in! I have to manage my hydration...!"
"We're picking up where we left off yesterday. I'm really hopin' we find something today! If we do, I'll be sure to let everyone know ASAP!"
"It's okay! Everything's absolutely, positively, one hundred percent without a doubt gonna be okay! Cuz help's gonna be here, I'm sure of it!"
"We just hafta do it, I guess... What other choice do we have?"
"I-I'm still pretty freaked out, but...I'll try."
"I hate this...but still, we don't have a choice. We have to figure out who did it. Or else we're all dead..."
"On the other hand, two people becoming good friends, then one killing the other is a classic drama setup. So when you consider everything together... ...I honestly have no idea."
Chapter 2:

"M-Makoto... Hey, cheer up! Getting depressed isn't gonna help anything, right? If we all work together, I'm sure we'll find a way out of here! So everyone just...try and cheer up and get back on track!"
"B-But...if we work together against the mastermind, nobody'll have any reason to do something like that!"
"Ahh, I'm beyond excited right now! I can't wait to dive in! In fact, I'm gettin' kinda mad thinking about it!"
"How come! When you're in a funk, there's nothing better than a good swim to pull you out of it!"
"Sakura's really awesome, ya know? If she really wanted to... ...she could tear this door to shreds!"
"There's something totally messed up with you if you can laugh at a time like this!"
"Do we really gotta do another investigation...? Examining the corpse of one of our friends... Having to suspect all our *other* friends... I hate this... I can't take it anymore!"
"Huh? You're gonna talk to her, Byakuya? Wow, I guess you can be nice when you want to!"
"There's two things I'm sure God created—outer space, and donuts!"
"Maybe she was used to guys spoiling her. The law says you can't judge a book by its cover, right?"
"Our lives are all on the line..."
"Yeah, all we need right now is any kinda new info."
"You're completely insane, you know that? A game? One of our friends is dead! Do you realize that!?"
Chapter 3:

"I know I shouldn't cry... But... I've had enough. I can't take it anymore. Getting out of here...anytime soon... ... It's...impossible. I can't let myself think about...how much I want to get out of here. If I keep thinking like that, I might decide to... ....Donuts. I need to eat some donuts...! That'll cheer me up! Glazed donuts, twisty donuts, jelly donuts, cream-filled, donut holes, malasadas...! O god of donuts! I'm praying for a wonderful encounter!"
"Please, forgive me for breaking the nighttime rule... But right now, for me...donuts are absolutely necessary...!"
"Y-Yeah... I ate a few donuts, and that really helped a lot."
"Don't compare what happened to me to one of your stupid delusions!"
"I can't even imagine how it must feel to lose your "other self"..." (After Alter Ego learned his Master's death)
"Isn't it awesome!? I ended up doing something totally awesome, right!?" (About her being the one who discover Alter Ego)
"So when you wanna say something mean, *then* you can talk, huh?"
"Yeah, that's right! We're not gonna lose to you ever again!"
"B-But... There's no way we'd kill each other for money!"
"Th-There's nothing to worry about, right? Nobody would kill a friend...for money, right?"
"Okay, then we can do something in the rec room! I'm not good at much, but I do know how to play Othello! I'm not very good at that either, though. I don't like to think when I'm playing, so..."
"I can't take this anymore... I don't want anyone else to die!"
"H-Hold on... How can you be so...so calm...? I mean, they're *dead*, ya know!? Dead! Gone forever! They're never coming back! Awful... This is all just too awful! Wh-Who would do this...? Why...? WHYYY!?" (About Kiyotaka and Hifumi)
"Even if that's true, you must be one dumb fish to bite every piece of bait that floats in front of you."
"How can human life mean so little to you...?"
"Good luck, Makoto! Girls like her are total pushovers when you show a little backbone!"
Chapter 4:

"Okay! In that case, let's eat till we pass out! Well, cuz look how scary everyone looks! It's gotta be cuz you're all fighting on empty stomachs, right? If you fill your belly, I'm sure you'll all cheer up! So, let's eat! Let's fry up some fish and donuts and eat till we can't stand up!"
"Yeah, yeah! Think happy thoughts! Not deathy thoughts!"
"I can't tell if you're for the occult or against it. You stink of stupidity..."
"This is amazing! It's a gold mine! Ahh, my prayers have finally been answered! Time to load up some more prayers, then!"
"It's fine! It's not the end of the world if you beg a little."
"You're usually like, totally normal. But when the time comes, BAM! You bust out your special power. I mean, even before yesterday, when stuff comes up, it's like...you always do something about it. With your power, and Sakura's, and everyone else...I'm sure we'll get outta here... Now that we've got that fighting spirit, let's go get some grub!"
"You're the type who takes the stairs of love three steps at a time, aren't you!?"
"Watch out, Sakura! Makoto's transformed into a wild beast! Prime Minister Wild Beast of Beastopia!"
"That's true, protein is good for all kinds of stuff!"
"You disgust me! You're...you're a monster! To say something like that... It should've been you. You should've been the one to die!"
"If you let jerk buttholes get to you all the time, you'll never have time left to live your life."
"It's my own fault. But I just...couldn't take it anymore. Because... Because...! Because she was saying all these terrible things about my friend, ya know!?"
"Because everyone...evenme...we all killed her. We all have to pay for our crimes..."
"Don't stand there and call it a misunderstanding! She believed in you...and you wouldn't even listen to what she had to say. Without asking a single question, you tried to kill her... Do you have any idea how desperate she was, seeing you act like that!?"
"She had weaknesses, just like any other person. If she got cut, she bled. If someone hurt her, she felt it. That's weakness... That's normal...! And yet... You all blamed her... I tried to protect her, and I suffered for it. And that just added to the weight she had to carry...! We killed her... All of us. We pushed her into a corner...and we murdered her. People like us shouldn't be allowed to live!"
"Sakura died hating all of us. I wanted to free her of her regrets. But even that got found out. In the end, I wasn't able to do anything for her... I could never face her after this..."
Chapter 5:

"Hey! Don't be a sourpuss! We gotta think positive! Besides, even if one more person dies, we can still field a basketball team" (to Yasuhiro)
"Even if it's hard, we still gotta do it!"
"Well you don't have to worry. They say idiots never catch cold, ya know."
"Hey! Get it together! You're a man, aren't ya?!"
"God, you're like the world's most spineless worm of the century!"
"Yeah. I mean, I don't wanna hafta kill each other, or anyone else. But we have a chance now..."
"Sakura...if you can hear me, lend me your strength..."
"Sakura's gonna be watching over us... So we're definitely gonna find something to help us bring this to an end!"
"We don't have any choice... We're desperate!"
"If anyone doesn't know women, it's you!"
"Killing a living thing just do something like that is awful! They should have at least eaten it!"
Chapter 6:

"But still, I know I've mostly been totally useless. So I figure, at least here at the end, maybe I can find something that'll help us all get out of here. So I'm gonna go off and do it all on my own!"
"Hey, no fair! You can't just go around restricting whatever you feel like!"
"You can't get out of this, so don't even try!"
"I've been thinking about all this... And I was thinking...at a time like this, what would Sakura do? You only get stronger by taking adversity by the horns! Confront that thorny path with enthusiasm! That sounds like something she'd say, right? No, I think that's definitely what she'd say! Which is why I...I...! Yeah! I've made up my mind!"
"Say whatever you want, I've made my decision!"
"Because we've decided to enter the outside world with hope!"
Epilogue:

"Well *my* first stop is gonna be the closest donut shop! I can figure out the rest from there!"
"Well, I guess this is goodbye. ...And goodbye...to Sakura. But hey! If we gotta say goodbye, we may as well do it with a smile on our face!"
Bullet Time Battle:

"You're a liar!"
"What are you saying!?"
"Wrong... You're wrong!"
"I'm telling you, I did it!"
"Just let it end already!"
"Stop talking!"
"I don't wanna hear it!"
"I hate you!"
"Do you have any kind of proof Sakura took the poison!?" (Final Argument)
Creation and 
Aoi Asahina Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
Aoi's initial design brief was as a little sister-type character, very different from her final design, and with a much younger appearance. Character designer Rui Komatsuzaki designed her with "the sports loving girl with brown skin" in mind - although her talent is in swimming, her design brief states she's actually good at all sports in general. Because of her athletic nature Aoi was originally planned to wear sweatpants, but producer Yoshinori Terasawa requested they give her shorts. Aoi is the only female character in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc whose clothing doesn't have a clear school uniform element because her element was indended to be the school PE kit sweatpants - instead her shoes and shorts show the Monokuma eye symbol present on the Hope's Peak Academy school crest.

Her first name has the kanji for "hollyhock", a type of flower, while Asahina is a combination of "morning", "sun", and "pseudocydonia". Her name is also a homonym for aoi (青い), "blue".
Aoi is referred to as "Hina" by characters in the localized version of Danganronpa.
In the English dub of Side: Hope, Komaru also addresses Aoi as "Hina."
According to her school profile in Danganronpa 3, Aoi dislikes calculating, implying that she dislikes math just like her brother, Yuta.
She practices a self-healing technique known as Kanpu masatsu, in which one rubs their body with a dry towel to keep illnesses such as the flu away.
She shares the same birth date with Mahiru Koizumi.
Along with swimming, Aoi plays baseball, basketball, volleyball, tennis, and track and field.
Aoi wears shorts during all seasons, including winter.
In the bad ending, Aoi is shown to be the mother of Makoto's, Yasuhiro's and presumably Byakuya's children.
Along with Makoto, Kyoko and Hajime Hinata/Izuru Kamukura, Aoi is one of four people to have survived multiple killing games, surviving the Killing School Life and the Final Killing Game.
Danganronpa Another Episode Asahina Vending Machine
In Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls, there is an "Asahina" branded vending machine with a silhouette of Aoi's head on it. This is a pun on the beer and soft drink brand, Asahi.
Aoi's English voice actress in the game, Cassandra Lee Morris, also voices Aiko Umesawa in Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School.
According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Aoi is one of the series' characters with the strongest resistance towards the heat.

Byakuya Togami (十神 白夜 Togami Byakuya), is a student in Hope's Peak Academy's Class 78th, and a participant of the Killing School Life featured in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc. His title is Ultimate Affluent Progeny (超高校級の「御曹司」chō kōkō kyū no "onzōshi." lit. Super High School Level Heir).

Years later, he returns in Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School as a member of the Future Foundation.

Byakuya is a young man around 17-19 years old in the first game, though he believed himself to be 15-17 because of the memory loss. By the end of Danganronpa 3, he is a few years older and around 19-21 at least.

He has a tall, slim figure, and usually dons a black suit. He wears a white shirt underneath and a green criss-cross tie. In promotional material, he is often seen wearing a vest and necktie. Due to the style of his suit, he often appears less thin than he truly is. He has short, dirty blond hair, blue eyes, and he wears white framed glasses. Byakuya is usually seen with his arms crossed, which is a personal quirk in line with his arrogance. When he joins the Future Foundation, the only noticeable change to his appearance is that he wears a necktie.

He wears high-class black underwear with golden waist and large white symbol on the front. It is made by the "Governor" brand and considered proof of a true monarch that is impossible to imitate by the nouveau riche and thus it is loved by the elites. On top of that, the underwear are Togami family custom-ordered.


Byakuya's normal outfit.
Byakuyafuture
Byakuya's Future Foundation attire.


Byakuya is an arrogant and serious young adult who originally saw himself to be more superior then the others due to being the heir to an extremely successful family business. He is extremely reluctant to admit to any mistakes he might have committed, and constantly refers to the other students as "amoebas" and "plebeians". He has a deviously manipulative tendency, as he often expressed irritation from Toko Fukawa and Genocide Jack's obsessive behavior towards him, but often used it to his benefit by ordering them around. He has also betrayed their trust more than once for his own personal gain.

He is often cold, blunt, and reserved, preferring to work alone and mocking the others' attempts to be cooperative, even bluntly stating that they are not friends. However, he does not appear to be as actively mean as he seems. Usually when he answers to the other students with cruel words, it is because they bothered him when he wanted to be left alone. It also appears that he was taught strict manners by his family, as he refuses to use swear words and is completely disgusted by vulgar words and behavior, and anything he considers barbaric. Notably, his overly serious personality often makes him quite comical, especially if he is with Toko or Genocide Jack. For example, he has used the word "effin" in order to avoid swearing, and once ran away to escape Toko in a comical manner. Moreover, due to his upbringing, he has poor knowledge on certain things that are considered common knowledge. He is confused by the idea of people making their own food, as his food is always prepared by a chef, and he doesn't know what toy vending machines are.

Competition, challenge and victory are a key part of Byakuya's life, and he even stopped making millions in a day simply because it was too easy and just killing time. He is shown to be very confident in his abilities and does not seem to consider failure even an option. In his Free Time Events, it's revealed that he had to work really hard and earn his current status, and thus he is very angered and offended whenever people assume that he got his title simply by being fortunate enough to be born into a rich family. He also appears to have genuine respect for the half-siblings he had to beat in order to reach his status, and is motivated to persist out of respect for those he defeated. However, because he was raised in highly competitive environment, he thinks people only think about themselves and he dismisses emotional ties as petty and unimportant.

Throughout the story, Byakuya was one of the group's most sensible students and had proven to be a competent investigator, despite his prudish behavior. He displays a high level of intellect, showing himself to be one of the most competent and insightful investigators in the group. However, he also frequently antagonized the others, said he would be the one to emerge unscathed with any means necessary, and often referred to their situation a "game" much to the others' disturbance. He is quick to zero in on suspects without alibis, or those who seem to be most suspicious, as shown in the fifth school trial when Kyoko Kirigiri did not have credible alibis to support her absence. However, he was unable to figure out the true cause of Sakura Ogami's death and even after learning the truth he had a hard time understanding that someone would give their life for the sake of other people. This also caused him to be bewildered at how he failed to solve the mystery. As the story progressed, Byakuya began to genuinely care about his classmates (though he wouldn't admit it), to the point of even announcing that he would no longer take part in the killings. Ironically, he never did commit a murder despite all his talk.

Byakuya greatly revered his family, often speaking of the vast power of the Togami Corporation. When Junko Enoshima revealed the state - or rather, cessation of existence - of the entire Togami Corporation, he initially didn't take it well; though he would later recover from the shock to announce that they would rebuild the family from the ground up.

After escaping Hope's Peak Academy and joining the Future Foundation, Byakuya appears considerably nicer, as he is genuinely protective of others and even ready to risk his life for them. He is also occasionally seen smiling in a genuine, friendly manner. According to his Danganronpa 3 profile, the killing game made him value relationships with people just a bit more, and he even referred to the others as his comrades at one point. It also should be noted that the Future Foundation returned his memories. Nevertheless, he continues to treat Toko in a harsh manner, as she continues to flirt with him, despite the fact that he has vocalised his disinterest. Still, he seems to insult her and other people less, although he can still be serious at times and lacks any sense of humor.

Talent 
Ultimate Affluent Progeny 
Danganronpa 1 Byakuya Togami English Game IntroductionByakuya's talent offered him a range of different skills. He is incredibly intelligent, as he was the first one who deduced that one of the group members had been betrayed. He also beat out all of his siblings and ran multiple branches of the Togami Empire, as well as acquiring a massive fortune for himself.
His talent helped in his role as a high ranking member of the Future Foundation's 14th branch. Despite serving under Kyoko Kirigiri, Byakuya was always ready to take the lead when the situation called for it.

In other 
Byakuya's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc and Danganronpa: Another Episode.

Ultimate Affluent Progeny
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「御曹司」	Super High School Level Heir
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"名門子弟"	Super High School Level Noble Son
中文超高校级的"名门子弟"	Super High School Level Noble Son(DRtA)
Français L'Héritier Ultime	Ultimate Heir (DRV3)
DeutschSuper-Erbe	Super-Heir (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Rampollo Liceale	Super High School Level Noble Son(DRtA)
한국어초 고교급 상속자	Super High School Class Heir(DR:AE)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Vástago	Super High School Student Level: Scion (DRtA)

Prior to The 
Byakuya is the heir to the financial giant that is the Togami family.

As a tradition, the head of the family did not have a single, dedicated wife, but instead had many, many children with "a number of the highest quality women" all across the world. At some point, all of the potential successors were made to compete against one another, with the victor being named heir of the Togami Corporation.

In Byakuya's generation there were fifteen candidates of various genders. The candidates all fought for the position and in the end, he, the youngest, came out on top. It was the first time in the family's history that the youngest had ever "taken the crown". The losing siblings were exiled from the family, but Byakuya harshly described them as being "killed" because, according to him, "[to be in] exile is pretty much the same as death".

According to the rumors, Byakuya had already held several management positions at a company and had managed to acquire a considerable amount of fortune on his own. Furthermore, all of the schools he enrolled into were exclusive ones, his former high school being Green Hills High School.

The closest person to him was his butler, named Aloysius Pennyworth, who referred to him as "Young Master".

Byakuya attended Hope's Peak Academy's 78th class as the Ultimate Affluent Progeny, making him exceptional even among the Ultimates.

During The 
One year later, the Tragedy occurred. During the Tragedy, Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of the Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. His plan was agreed to by the class, and they sealed the building together and lived peacefully inside it for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.

The true Ultimate Despair took away the 78th Class' school memories so they could participate in the Killing School Life.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy 
As the events progressed, Byakuya emerged as one of the prime investigators of murders, alongside Makoto and Kyoko, and tended to make swift logical conclusions based on facts they learned through investigations, instead of thinking about abstract theories like Kyoko did. In Class Trials, Byakuya was usually the first to spot weaknesses and apparent logical fallacies within others' statements.

Later on, Byakuya became more and more arrogant and began considering himself and his opinions to be superior over everyone else. Sakura's death prompted him to announce that he would abandon the "game" and focus his efforts on finding the mastermind, although it did little else to defeat his confidence; it was only during the farcical trial to Mukuro Ikusaba's death that he would finally realize his own limits.

Prologue - Welcome to 
Byakuya and the others find themselves locked in the Hope's Peak Academy, with no memory of what happened.

At first, Byakuya showed his dislike towards everyone by stating that he will never cooperate with them. He considered the Mutual Killing to be a "game" of sorts, and kept to his own devices.

Chapter 1 - To 
When Sayaka Maizono asks about rule 6, about the part where it says "unless they are discovered", Byakuya explains that it means you have to kill someone without anyone else discovering. When the students prepare to explore, Byakuya says he is going alone, stating that someone might be thinking about murder and berated the others for not considering it to be a possibly. Mondo Owada said that he wasn't going to let him go around doing whatever he wants. Byakuya called him a plankton, stating that he was insignificant and when Mondo threatened to hurt him, Makoto attempted to calm him down, resulting in Mondo knocking him out in a fit of rage.

The next day, Byakuya arrives later than the others and when asked if he had seen Sayaka, who was the only other person not to arrive. This made Makoto nervous, so he went to go check his room, and noticed that Sayaka was murdered.

After Monokuma woke up, Byakuya told Makoto that Sayaka was dead and berated him for trying to run, stating that no matter how many times he checked, Sayaka would be dead. He then asked Monokuma, if the murderer would leave, to which Monokuma explained the graduation rule and the Class Trial. He then witnessed the death of Junko Enoshima, and agreed to participate in the investigation.

During the Class Trial, he initially suspected Makoto, due to him and Sayaka trading rooms, it was later revealed that Leon Kuwata was the killer after Sayaka tried to kill him, he was seemingly not shocked when Leon was executed.

Chapter 2 - Boy's Life of 
Whilst exploring the new floor, Kyoko came upon a dusty letter, which she concluded was from a while ago due to the dust, stating that Hope's Peak Academy was forced to shut down. Byakuya stated that it may be a fake, but believed that if it was real, then the mastermind may have placed them in a different school, citing that the mastermind was powerful enough to build a trial ground and a place for execution.

The next day, Byakuya didn't appear for the morning meeting, leading the others to become worried about him and they then began looking for him. They find him in the Library, reading. He mentioned performing something original for his plot, should he become the villain in the game. Mondo was disgusted at him calling it a game, but Byakuya stated that this was a game, a game of life or death with only one winner, to which Celestia Ludenberg called a zero-sum game, where one persons loss is another ones gain and that the game was based of people gaining the limited resource of "blackened" to which Byakuya coldly called fun. Celeste says that the concept of losing has never come to Byakuya, to which he agreed, and he told Aoi Asahina that he wouldn't die.

Mondo gets angry at him again, to which Byakuya expresses his amazement at him remaining alive for this long. Mondo threatens to kill him with Byakuya replying that he can't die. Chihiro Fujisaki says that "she" doesn't like the concept of killing and stated that friends shouldn't fight, something which Byakuya criticized, stating that they weren't friends causing "her" to become quiet and afraid. Mondo threatened to kill him for picking on those who couldn't fight back, but Byakuya said he wouldn't cooperate with anyone anymore.

Byakuya remained in the Library, refusing to talk to anyone. Later when Toko and Makoto went to see Byakuya, he told them to get out and told Toko to take a bath, commenting on her smell. This caused Toko to misinterpret it as him caring about her and she quickly developed feelings for him.

Before Monokuma's second motive, Toko told him her secret, that she was Genocide Jack. Later he appeared for Monokuma's second motive, and berated Hina for waiting for help, since none had arrived. Monokuma explained the second motive which was everyone's dark secrets and threatened to disclose them in 24 hours if there wasn't another murder.

Whilst at the library, before going back to his room, he noticed Mondo leaving the girl's changing room, Byakuya had a look inside, and noticed the dead body of Chihiro Fujisaki. In order to reveal Genocide Jack and advance his own motives, he crucified the body using an extension cord, intentionally so someone could lead it back to him, and wrote "Blood Lust" on the wall.

The next morning, the others had learned that someone had been murdered, so Byakuya led Makoto into the girl's changing room, which had been unlocked by Monokuma. After Kiyotaka Ishimaru appeared and saw Chihiro's corpse, Byakuya told him to get the others. During the investigation he agreed to co-operate with Makoto for a while. Makoto asked about the card readers, Monokuma explaining how they worked and that it was forbidden to loan out their e-Handbooks to others. Byakuya realizes the loophole between lending and borrowing, since you can borrow your e-Handbook from a dead person. They then went to the main hall and discovered three e-Handbooks from those who had previously died (excluding Chihiro). Junko's and Sayaka's worked, but Leon's didn't, which they believed was due to his execution destroying it.However, Monokuma stated that it wouldn't break from force, but it did have one weakness.

Afterwards Hina appears, telling them that an emergency has happened, as Toko blocked herself in her room. After Makoto convinced Byakuya to try and talk to her, she apologized for not keeping her promise to Byakuya. After leaving Toko, they headed to the library, where Byakuya showed Makoto the Genocide Jack case file, to which Byakuya explained. Byakuya let Makoto have a look at the files where he learned that Genocide Jack having a case of Dissociative Identity Disorder. He told him that all Genocide Jack killings had "Blood Lust" written besides them and top-secret information from police records stated that all victims were crucified. He then split up from Makoto.

During the Class Trial, he quickly exposed Toko as Genocide Jack, shocking the others. He then explained that he knew since Toko told him, afterwards Toko fainted and turned into her Genocide Jack personality. After suspicion, it was revealed that Genocide Jack didn't kill Chihiro since all of Genocide Jack's victims were male, everyone assumed that Chihiro was female at this point, and that a dumbbell rather than her Genoscissors were used in the crucifixion, something which Genocide Jack always used.

The blame quickly shifted onto Byakuya himself, since he had access to the police files and the extension cord was used, something which Byakuya had used before. However Byakuya seemed unmoved and encouraged Makoto, there it was also revealed that Chihiro was killed in the boy's changing room and that Chihiro was actually male, both facts surprising Byakuya and from this it was determined that Byakuya wasn't the killer, which he admitted to only modifying the crime scene. When asked about his motives, he called them irrelevant, but said they should look for the real killer. Later Mondo was found as the killer and was executed.

When Kyoko asked why Byakuya covered for Mondo, he responds saying that it made things more interesting. When Yasuhiro Hagakure states that Byakuya would have been executed as well, he said that he would have spoken up should that have happened, and he was annoyed at Makoto for figuring out he was involved, revealing that he was also looking for who to watch out for, claiming for he would use this information when it was his turn to be the villain.

Chapter 3 - A Next Generation Legend!
Byakuya and Toko are waiting in the gym when everyone arrives after being summoned by Monokuma. Byakuya is annoyed that they were late, and explains that Toko returns to normal after sneezing, when they notice she is no longer Genocide Jack. Monokuma shows up and unveils his third motive: ten million dollars to the one who graduates. Due to his abundance of wealth, Byakuya notes it is not nearly enough to persuade him to kill someone. When Hina believed no one will kill for money, Byakuya reminded her that the last two kills have confirmed you can't judge anyone by your own standards.

The next morning, Genocide Jack and Byakuya show up to the cafeteria at the same time. Byakuya indirectly confirms that Jack has been stalking him, and also said he knew the others are keeping something from him. They refused to tell him, and he casually brushes it off. He asked why Taka is acting different, and Celeste says he has become useless. Byakuya wonders if the stress finally got to Taka, and advises the others not to rely on false comraderie, before noting he is not welcome, and saying he will leave. Jack says she will come with him, and Byakuya says she doesn't have to come with him. Jack persists that he doesn't have to play hard to get; he just has to "play hard". Byakuya says that that doesn't make any sense and soon runs out of the room with Jack chasing after him.

Chapter 4 - All●Star●
Chapter 5 - 100 Mile Dash; Pain of a Junk Food 
Chapter 6 - Ultimate Pain, Ultimate Suffering, Ultimate Despair, Ultimate Execution, Ultimate 
As the retrial progressed, Junko was eventually revealed as the true perpetrator of the Mutual Killing Game. Byakuya was shocked when Junko illustrated his family's current situation - or, lack of a situation, given that his family had apparently been completely wiped out - and was rendered completely speechless for the first time since the start of the murders.

As Byakuya obtained motivation through Makoto's speech of hope to grasp past the shock caused by Junko, he defiantly reminded Junko that his sole reason to support Makoto was to destroy the culprit that had been responsible for the deaths of his former classmates (a vow taken at the conclusion of Sakura's Class Trial), and that he did not plan to fall into despair any time soon. Byakuya further added that, as long as he were alive, the Togami Family would never truly die; Byakuya Togami is still alive, and he vowed to rebuild his family no matter what opposed him once he entered the outside world.

Supporting Makoto, Byakuya and the remaining students voted for Hope - causing Junko to fall into one last episode of despair shortly before she executed herself in The Ultimate Punishment.

Epilogue - Goodbye Despair 
Their torments were finally over, Byakuya remained arrogant to his peers, but also finally admitted that, without anyone's help, he wouldn't have survived through this gruesome journey. Byakuya repeated his vow to rebuild his family with his own hands, and declared that it would be far greater than before.

With that, Byakuya emerged from Hope's Peak Academy as one of the survivors at the end of the game.

Joining the Future 
Byakuya and the others survived together in the apocalyptic world until they were found by Koichi Kizakura, a member of Future Foundation. They decided to join Future Foundation to fight against despair and Future Foundation helped them recover their school memories. Byakuya became a very respected member of the 14th Division.

Danganronpa Gaiden: Killer 
Chapter 3 - Bessatsu Shounen Zetsubou 
Byakuya was seen in the explanation of the Tragedy, along with the other survivors of the Killing School Life as one of the people integral in stopping the Tragedy's mastermind, Junko Enoshima.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Prologue - The Warriors of 
Byakuya, as a Future Foundation agent, made his first appearance by saving Komaru Naegi after she was almost killed by a Monokuma unit. He had a conversation with Komaru, during which he figured out that he and his group were lured to Komaru's captive location on purpose. However, the two of them were interrupted by a large number of Monokuma units coming to dispatch them. Byakuya quickly gave her a Megaphone Hacking Gun to defend herself and told her to escape the building, leaving him to deal with the Monokumas. He was then captured and taken as a hostage.

Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair 
After the Big Bang Monokuma was defeated, Toko said that before they left they needed to save Byakuya. He was later revealed to be fine, and he was shown eavesdropping on Toko and Komaru's conversation about staying in Towa City. Toko said it didn't matter how far away she and Byakuya were and that their relationship would never change. Byakuya agreed: no matter how far away they were, he would never have feelings for her.

Byakuya was last seen talking with Makoto about a woman who had good information. He showed Makoto the video message left by his sister, then ended the call with a genuine smile, saying that he owed Komaru and Toko.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
Byakuya, Makoto and Kyoko arrived into the Neo World Program to save the remaining Remnants of Despair by activating the Forced Shutdown.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
After defeating Alter Ego Junko and exiting the Neo World, Byakuya leaves Jabberwock Island with Makoto and Kyoko while Hajime Hinata watches from the island.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 06 - No Man is an island 
Makoto and Hina make contact with Byakuya, who is surprised after he learned that there was another killing game has occurred. Byakuya said he hasn't received any broadcast. He informed Makoto that one of his men has reported that Kyosuke Munakata has sent some of his troops to Jabberwock Island to deal with the Remnants of Despair. Byakuya said he has sent his forces to the island and he will come to them. Makoto thanked Byakuya, who gave him a back handed compliment to make him feel hopeful before he ended the transmission.

Byakuya mobilized his troops to go with him to the Future Foundation's headquarters. One of Byakuya's men asks why he didn't tell them that they discovered Miaya Gekkogahara's body, which means the Miaya Gekkogahara that was with Makoto was a fake. Byakuya said if they had told Makoto and Hina the truth, then the fake could've have done something to them. Byakuya suspects Monaca Towa is behind the killing game, and contacts Toko and Komaru, who are still in Towa City, to go after her.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair 
Byakuya winced as he "sensed" that a pervert is fantasizing about him. The men report that all the divisions have reported no activity of the Remnants of Despair. Byakuya looked at Monaca's file as he told his men to hurry to the location. He said that as long as he is alive, he won't allow the Future Foundation to fall. Later, Byakuya contacted by Toko who informed him that one of their former classmates is fated to die because of Makoto.

Episode 08 - Who Killed Cock Robin 
Byakuya arrived at the Future Foundation's headquarters in time to save Hiro from being shot by another helicopter. After he landed, Byakuya had Hiro and his men planted explosives to blow open the sealed entrance. After the entrance is unblocked, Hiro went to rush in, but Byakuya grabbed him and told him to stay outside. As Byakuya and his men investigated the lobby, one of his men approached an unconscious woman. Byakuya warned him to be careful of what he touches, but the woman, who turned out to be a robot, made her eyes spring open and triggered the alarm which sounds throughout the building, and making it destroyed after a big explosion occurred.

Episode 12 - It is Always 
Byakuya and his men showed up inside the Future Foundation Headquarters and rescued Makoto with Hiro. He ordered his men to restrain a group of soldiers that had been brainwashed by Ryota Mitarai.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Byakuya and Hiro are able to find Hina and come to her aid. Hiro began tying fresh bandages around Hina's leg before expressing that Byakuya got buried in rubble laughingly, to Hina's shock although Byakuya explained to her that they were saved by the Class 77-B. She then asked after Makoto, Byakuya reassuring her that he was being escorted by half of his operatives.

Makoto later met up with Byakuya, Hiro, and Hina underneath a tent, they all greet him warmly. Noticing a video on Byakuya's laptop, Makoto and the rest of the group surrounded the screen, Byakuya explained that the Class 77-B broadcasted a message of 'despair', proclaiming that they set up the Final Killing Game. Hiro doesn't understand, clutching his head in confusion as to why they were saved by the Class 77-B when they were still Remnants of Despair. Byakuya commanded him to be quiet, prompting Hiro to cover his mouth while Byakuya explained that the Class 77-B lied in order for the Future Foundation to still look favorable. He then thanked Makoto, for giving the Class 77-B the chance for redemption and stopping Ryota Mitarai, expressing that hope was infectious even though it came at a heavy price.

Makoto began a speech, prompting a scene where Byakuya is conversing with one of his operatives after watching the broadcast of the Class-77-B. He is later found several months later, several months after the Final Killing Game, Makoto became the principal of a newly built Hope's Peak Academy and is working alongside Kyoko. Hiro is seen outside on the school grounds, trying to receive a reading upon his crystal ball as Byakuya watched over him.


Human★Disqualification - If executed, Byakuya would have been dropped in a garbage can which would fall into a place that looks like Hell. Monokuma, dressed like an elementary student, would appear and throw stones at him for looking like a dirty hobo. Byakuya would try to escape, but he would come out into a cold and snowy place. He would eventually die from his wounds and hypothermia. This execution is only described in the Danganronpa Visual Fanbook.


Family:
Byakuya takes pride in his family's success, often openly bragging about it and putting a great deal of confidence in their stength.

Shinobu 
Shinobu is Byakuya's older sister. The details of their relationship is unknown, although it appears to be more business-like rather than a normal sibling connection.

Underling:
Aloysius 
Aloysius is one of the few people that Byakuya is willing to open up to, making him more of an indispensable asset to the Togami family. His capture as a Captive during the events of Danganronpa is the evidence how important he is for Byakuya.

Class 78th:
Toko Fukawa/Genocide 
Both Toko and her alter, Jack, possess an extreme obsession with Byakuya, who regards their crush as disturbing.

Toko finds Byakuya attractive. She can often be seen blushing when he address her, and misinterprets his disgusted remarks about her "stench" to be concern. She hopes to one day assume an affectionate relationship with them, but is content with him constantly insulting her for now, seeing his genuine dislike of her as mere "lovers' quarrels". The two are frequently either seen together or noted to be absent from the group, although this is largely due to Toko's tendency to stalk Byakuya.

On the other hand, Jack insulted Byakuya at first, whom was very surprised as a result. However, Jack found Byakuya attractive as well, and declared in a Free Time Event that Byakuya was the only cute "boy" she wouldn't kill as she wanted more than just a "physical" relationship with him.

Like Toko, Jack is usually seen stalking Byakuya and following him everywhere. Byakuya generally harbors animosity toward her in return, but this side to their relationship eventually evens out into simple apathy. While Byakuya actively avoids Jack by hiding in the boys' changing room and insisting they aren't together, he usually does not put in the same effort with Toko and will simply tell her to go away if he doesn't want her nearby. Toko and Byakuya even managed to have several conversations that could be classified as normal, despite Jack's existence. After Sakura's trial where he learned to not underestimate or treat other people's feelings lightly, he compliments Toko on finding a knife.

In the Bad Ending for the first game, it is suggested that Byakuya may come around to care for Toko with time or that he might harbour some feelings for her, as he is holding her portrait to include her in the image and is smiling as he does so. However, given his aversion to these sorts of feelings, it is unlikely he would be open to these sorts of feelings for a long time.

In the second game, Kyoko mentioned that "someone" was waiting for him to go back, meaning Toko is still obsessed with him.

He seems to have a secret sense that tells him when either Toko or Jack is having a perverted fantasy about him. He also maintains contact with Komaru and Toko after Ultra Despair Girls and is able to call them in their hotel room.

In an interview, it was revealed that Byakuya would have gone with Makoto to collect Komaru and Toko from Towa City.

In the Danganronpa V3 Bonus Mode, her attraction to him is so psychotic, she, very openly, stated that was turned on by the thought of being his doormat.

Makoto 
The first time they meet each other was during the Killing School Life, Byakuya saw Makoto under the impression that he was only an ordinary highschooler unworthy of his time. However, as the story progressed, Byakuya began to admire Makoto's investigative skills, although he would never openly voice it. Byakuya often demanded Makoto accompany him on investigations so he could judge whether Makoto would be a threat to him winning the competition. At times he shows little regard for Makoto's well-being, telling him to go die on more than one occasion and volunteering him to open a door after Aoi suggests that the door might explode if they try to open it.

In the second game, Makoto, Byakuya, and Kyoko become companions and he supports Makoto's plan to save the remaining students from the will of the Future Foundation's higher-ups. This new bond is reinforced in Danganronpa 3 when Byakuya is willing to come and rescue them after they were forced to take part in the Final Killing Game. He also gives Makoto a backhanded compliment when they first make contact. Later, he and his men save Makoto from being gunned down brainwashed Future Foundation soldiers.

Kyoko 
Byakuya and Kyoko do not have a good relationship. During their killing school life, Byakuya had always been suspicious of Kyoko, and even went as far as to taking her room key because she couldn't tell him what her reason for selection at Hope's Peak Academy was in chapter 5. Kyoko disliked him because of his lack of respect for human emotions, which she said would come back to bite him, with Byakuya shaking the remark off.

Eventually, it seems they learned to work with each other during their time at the Future Foundation, possibly because they both had their memories returned. This can be seen that, despite his background and title, he is willing to be the vice head, working under Kyoko. When Kyoko was thought to have been killed during the Final Killing Game, Byakuya refers to her presumed death as a "great cost" for hope to finally triump over despair.

Aoi 
Byakuya is shown not to get along with Hina starting Chapter 4. This begins when Byakuya insults Sakura Ogami and Hina defends her best friend. This worsens when Hina threatens to kill Byakuya, and even slaps his face in anger. Even before these events, Hina disliked Byakuya because of his arrogance, and Byakuya believed himself to be superior to the other students.

After the two escape the school with the other survivors, Byakuya and Hina seem to be friends, having put their life of killing behind them.

Yasuhiro 
A fellow survivor of the Killing School Life and member of the Future Foundation. Byakuya is constantly annoyed by Hiro, and dislikes the way Hiro nicknames him, although he is shown smiling after demanding that Hiro show him some respect. Byakuya tends to push the hard work off to Hiro at times, and is seen ignoring Hiro when he asks Byakuya for help. Despite this, the two appear to be friends.

Mondo 
Byakuya enjoys teasing Mondo while Mondo finds him irritating and annoying. In Chapter 1, Mondo threatens to beat Byakuya up, however, was stopped by Makoto who tries to calm Mondo down which resulted in a punch by Mondo. Mondo continues to get teased by Byakuya trying to piss Mondo off. Byakuya mocks Mondo and makes fun of him for standing up for a weak person like Chihiro.

In Chapter 2, Byakuya witnessed Mondo killing Chihiro when Byakuya went outside and states how stupid Mondo could be.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Byakuya Togami & School Mode/Byakuya Togami
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Byakuya in order to learn more about him. If he gives Byakuya a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Byakuya will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Byakuya's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

123456
Byakuya Togami Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Trading cards	Day trading	Trademarks
5.5 million dollars?	I don't wanna do the math	550,000 dollars?
--	--	--
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 3 Civet Coffee DR1 Present 22 Scarab Brooch DR1 Present 52 Golden Gun DR1 Present 57 Old Timey Radio DR1 Present 60 Crystal Skull DR1 Present 61 Golden Airplane DR1 Present 62 Prince Shotoku's Globe DR1 Present 66 Millennium Prize Problems


Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Byakuya grants the following skills:

Cool and Composed	Steadies your aim a little.
Effective during the Nonstop Debate and the Hangman's Gambit.	2 SP
Envious Influence	Increases the Influence Gauge by 5.
Effective during the Class Trial.	4 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Byakuya TogamiMakoto is able to see inside Byakuya's dorm room during Free Time events. The most prominent items in Byakuya's room are a red carpet leading from the entrance, paintings, an ornate dining chair and light fixture, a tablecloth, and a yellow rose in a vase. He has a large glasses stand with 10 pairs of his trademark glasses. He has an a violin, metronome, sheet music, and a music stand. What seems to be a coin collection is in a case behind his bed.

DR1ExtraDRAEDRAE Chapter RatingsDR2Novel
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"Name's Byakuya Togami."
"Okay, time to get down to business. This is no time to stand around making friends like a bunch of dull-eyed baboons."
"Right now it doesn't really matter if it's real or fake. What matters is... Is there anyone here who's seriously considering all this...?"
Chapter 1:

"Frankly, I don't want to hear anything from someone who waits for others to decide what to do for them."
"Someone here might already have started thinking about murdering one of us. Are you saying we should stand around with them in our midst and make it that much easier for them?"
"Don't bother saying it couldn't happen. You can't deny the possibility. That's why you all seized up with fear when that graduation rule was made clear to you. Am I wrong? So, I'm simply acting in accordance with what I think is best for me."
"One tiny bit of plankton, drifting across the sea. So miniscule, so insignificant, they couldn't possibly have any kind of influence on the boundless ocean."
"If I'd uncovered anything, naturally I would have more to say. But I didn't. So I don't."
"I'm only here to get breakfast. I have neither need nor desire to talkt o you. Now withdraw."
"You can check once, twice, a thousand times. Sayaka is completely and irrevocably dead."
"You're like a child lost in the woods, you know that? A total waste of space."
"I don't know... I'm not sure our softhearted Makoto is capable of that kind of cutthroat behavior."
Chapter 2:

"We were "working together" and yet someone was still murdered. Anyone could betray us at this point. Now that it's happened once, it's a question of when, not if, the next one takes place."
"Keep telling yourself that. I'll be over here in the real world. Working together, fighting a common enemy... Like it or not, it's not that simple."
"Anyone who truly does want to escape...will just have to follow the rules. In which case, the only option is to deceive those around you, and win the game."
"If I decide to fight, of course I'll come up with something original. Otherwise, this game of ours will be totally boring, right? It's not often you get to take part in such a high-stakes, high-tension activity. So if you're going to do it, you have to make sure it's entertaining. Mhmhmhm..."
"But it *is* a game. It's a game of life or death, which can have only one winner. That's all there is to it."
"So, this game was designed from the beginning to force one of us to try and defeat all the others."
"But why would I want to stop playing? It's so much fun..."
"You know, I still just can't believe it... That an uneducated, brain-dead, useless piece of garbage like you has survived this long."
"Like I said. I won't die."
"Anyway, let me just say this to all of you. You all need to try harder. If an opponent isn't going to give it their best, where's the fun for me?"
"Friends? Who decided that? We're not friends. No, quite the opposite. We're in competition—we're enemies." (to Chihiro)
"But what? Stop trying to force your contradictions on me and just accept what I'm telling you."
"Yes? If you have something to say, say it. Otherwise, keep your mouth closed."
"So, you're back to pretending to be friends, huh? And how long do you think that's going to last?"
"Is that all you can say? It's unfortunate you would waste your breath on such empty gibberish."
"Anyway...I don't have any intention of working with the rest of you any longer. To cooperate during an elimination game is... Well, frankly, it's a waste of time. And I hate wasting my time. Engaging in "friendly" group meals is out of the question. Someone could easily poison our food. And I'd rather not become part of the Last Supper just yet. All I'm saying is that, ultimately, you are all free to do whatever you want on your own. Goodbye."
"I don't want to kill anyone. But I also don't want to stay here, living in blind denial day after day. I was just admiring how you could live like that and still keep your sanity."
"To judge someone else's values based on your own outlook... Do you realize how dangerous that is?"
"Did you already forget? This isn't a co-op game. It's every man for himself. What good does it do me to go out of my way to help you?"
"Unlike with Sayaka, this murder was not a crime of passion or necessity. It's almost as if whoever did this...did it for fun. You see what I mean, don't you?"
"Before you start screaming your head off, go round everyone up. It seems another game has begun. Another life-or-death game to uncover a killer..."
"Just accept it already. After all, blood is just a liquid. A dead body is a simple object."
"Of course. Life without purpose is quite dull, you know?"
"I'm purchasing your talent. The same talent which allowed you to solve Sayaka's case. You seem to have some limited use. Which is why I've chosen you. You have the honor of contributing to my investigation."
"New clues won't magically appear by standing around here. We need to check every aspect of this case."
"Good lord you're so simple."
"If I say I don't know, that means I don't know. Just let Hina take care of her."
"That's your guys' problem. Anything that doesn't fit into your preconceived reality, you label it a lie."
"I suppose it goes to show just how much Hope's Peak truly wields. Or perhaps... ...the mastermind may have wanted to provide us with enough entertainment to keep us from getting bored."
"What do you mean, usually? Usual? Normal, ordinary, simple? Those things don't exist anywhere in the real world. If you don't understand what they actually represent, you don't understand the nature of anything."
"And I have within me the bloodline that will allow me to one day bend the world to my will... But to become such a ruler, I must know all levels of this world backwards and forwards."
"Take responsibility for yourself and do something useful. Move the investigation forward on your own."
"I gave you plenty to work with. Show us how far your logic can take you."
"Don't waste our time with stupid questions. Let's get this over with." (to Monokuma)
"You have only yourself to blame—you came to me with your tragic little story. I didn't ask you to. This is the real world, not some romantic fantasy fairytale."
"What kind of question is that? Even in the world of disappointments, this is a true letdown."
"My reasons hardly matter right now. Uncovering the culprit is much more important, wouldn't you say?"
"How many times must I repeat myself? To judge others by your own standard is the height of folly. Even if you can't comprehend it, he obviously an. That's all there is to it."
"Why...? Isn't it obvious? Because it made things more interesting."
"I mean, what a waste of time to have the answer revealed right at the beginning. Which is why I decide to...lend a little helping hand." (About him tampering Chihiro's murder crime scene)
"Hmph. Whatever, it doesn't matter. In the end, I'm going to stand alone as the victor. And then everything will be revealed to me."
"Shut up. I would never stoop to the level of a childish criminal like you. Let me just say this... After I have achieved complete victory...you're up next. I'm going to find you and kill you. Understand? In the name of the Togami family, for which victory is a foregone conclusion... I swear, whatever it takes...I will kill you!"
Chapter 3:

"To be kept waiting by the likes of you. Rest assured, if we had access to firearms, you'd all be dead."
"Did you forget how to walk? Is that why you're late? It's simple—right foot, left foot. Right foot..."
"Have you so quickly forgotten the lesson from last time? You can't judge others by your own standard."
"Don't worry. Either way, whatever's going to happen will happen without warning. That is the nature of this game."
"But isn't this is a democracy? Or would you exclude those who don't fit into your tyrannical majority?"
"Did his spirit collapse or something? Was he unable to withstand this environment? Those men who clothe themselves in the cheap fabric of justice are often the first to fall... But perhaps things all the more interesting..."
"Let me leave you with a bit of advice. Don't come to rely on false camaraderie... ...or you'll reap its bitter reward."
"It seems I am unwelcome here. Then I will grant your desire and remove myself..."
"Taka... He seems to be even worse off than I'd heard. Well, maybe it's a good thing. Maybe he's finally starting to grow a personality."
"I'll lead the hunting party. That seems much more interesting."
"That annoying little insect that clings to me wherever I go... We'd be better off without her."
"This isn't some stereotypical fantasy world. Tears can't restore a person's vitality."
"You're just angry. Going out of his way to return, just to leave us with those unnecessary dying words. Now this game has become exceedingly boring."
"Anyway, it's about time we tracked down the culprit in our little life-or-death game here. Although...this time it's not all that life-or-death. The trial will conclude without much trouble."
"Maybe he thought that no matter what happened, he'd be safe as long as his face was covered. Because he's the fool of century, you see."
"Don't talk to me as if we're friends. But...you have my appreciation. Thanks to you, I might have some fun with this after all."
"If you have time to yell and carry on, you have time to search for your evidence. Right?"
"All things have a proper order."
"...I'm surprised. It seems there's some semblance of a brain knocking around that skull of yours, after all."
"Each piece isn't much by itself, but start putting them together and the picture gets very ugly indeed."
Chapter 4:

"It looks like you guys have stopped playing nice. You all have the same sunken look on your faces. You were all so ugly before. You shouldn't let them sink any lower. When I look at you, it makes me think of a frog sinking into a pile of manure."
"That's true enough. Your problems aren't mine. We are, and always will be, completely separate. So whatever's causing your faces to turn so ugly has absolutely nothing to do with me. And if I happened to discover a vital clue, it wouldn't concern you in the slightest. I don't mind telling you. Perhaps forcing your lazy brains to get to work might do you some good."
"I'm just impressed by your level of dismay. You finally see just how low on the totem pole of life you really are."
"Which means Sakura isn't our enemy. She's a friend who we can trust without question. Is that it? Ridiculous. Do you live in some sort of alternate reality fairy tale? She was the mastermind's tool. You absolutely cannot trust someone like that."
"Don't make that stupid face. We have to protect ourselves against the mastermind's tool."
"The game should be fair to all players. The existence of a spy for the mastermind upsets that balance."
"If Sakura were to die, that's one less person for the mastermind to control. I have no problem with that. In fact, if she did die, that would settle this entire issue, wouldn't it? It would put the whole problem to rest!"
"Sorry, I don't have time for your squabbling. The next game has already begun... If you want to be angry at someone, be angry at whoever killed Sakura."
"You're always a thorn in my side. This time just stand by and watch quietly. Consider that an order."
"Don't be stupid. Our lives are in just as much danger as yours! We have every right to investigate."
"What, you think studying science and mathematics has no practical application in the real world? The words of a lifelong loser. Which, I suppose, suits you well."
"Either way, the truth will be revealed soon enough. Because there can be no doubt, one of us is the culprit."
"And remember, this girl examines dead bodies as a hobby. Personally, I'm inclined to believe her."
"Could someone tighten the screws on his brain? I think they've become loose..."
"Just go away and die your meaningless death alone. Don't drag me into it."
"You're not about to claim she wouldn't kill a close friend, are you? You still don't get it, do you? The game we're playing here isn't so kind. Honeyed words lie friendship doesn't matter here. What matters is outwitting the opponent, defeating them... Not a person alive would sacrifice themselves for another. In the end, we're all in it for ourselves. Just like how this girl sacrificed Sakura...to save herself."
"How can you know what I don't know!?"
"But...Makoto, how did you—? How did you manage to—? How were you able to uncover the truth...that even I couldn't discern!?"
"Hina...why did you try to cover up what happened? If the truth hadn't come to light, you would have died along with the rest of us. And yet you...! Why did you do that!?"
"This is a life-or-death elimination match. The only way to survive...is to win. There can be no doubt that those are the rules of the game. Which is why...I am bowing out of the game. Sakura and Hina were both willing to sacrifice their own lives to deny the reality of the game. Thanks to them, it would appear the others have cast aside their fear for this game. There's no point in participating in a game which has lost that sense of excitement. Which is why I will no longer be participating in it. Now I have only one thing to look forward to. And that is to heap the harshest possible punishment onto the one who thinks they can control me!"
"Don't misunderstand. I haven't been moved by some thoughtless sentimentalism, if that's what you're thinking."
"Hmph. Dial back that ego a bit, girl. The kind of mystery someone like you could pose is absolutely no threat. I would never have lost to that kind of challenge. How many times do you plan to apologize? How about you make that the last one. I haven't reached a point where I need someone apologizing to me more than once..."
Chapter 5:

"If you want to keep up with me, you must refrain from pointless small talk."
"Regardless, if you want to defeat the mastermind, you need to follow my lead. They creep around the school like a mouse, but the mastermind's pride is as bloated as a cow's udder. And no matter what it takes, I *will* rid this world of them..."
"We're going to begin our search. Stop running your mouths and start moving your legs."
"Don't bother thinking about something that can't be understood no matter how much you think about it. Your tiny brains can only do so much, so focus on utilizing them efficiently."
"Sorry, I can still hear you. The sound of you breathing, of your heart beating...it grates on me."
"This is a battle, a fight to the death between us and the mastermind. We don't have time to deliberate."
"Everything comes down to this moment. Anything can happen, so prepare yourselves."
"We've come this far, we can't back down now. We agreed this is what we have to do. So we have to do it."
"No problem is solved by running away. Find your stones and be a man."
"Be ever so careful. There's no telling what you might find."
"You declared for the whole world to hear that you would never again inhale a single molecule of oxygen."
"Whether you believe it or not doesn't matter. The truth is the truth! If you refuse to believe, it's your responsibility to uncover the truth for yourself."
"So I'm going to begin my search. If you value your lives, you'll put everything you have into this. That is how this game works, after all..."
"God must have really hated you, to make you so dull."
"I demand an explanation! Why did you waste my time and make me wait like that!?"
"There's a limit to how much ridiculousness I can tolerate..." (About Yasuhiro's idiotic remarks)
"...Fine. Uncovering the identity of the mastermind will have to wait. But remember this... No matter what happens, we *will* find out who you really are. I stake my family name on it!"
Chapter 6:

"Jeez... You're like a stubborn little cockroach, you know that?"
"Not too many people can say they had their lives saved by a computer program. I imagine it was a learning experience for you."
"At this point, I can rely only on myself, on the Togami blood flowing through my veins. I have no time to worry about the rest of you. Each of you must uphold your responsibility."
"Well, don't put too much faith in her. The cost of that faith might be more than you can afford."
"I have nothing to talk to you about. Don't talk to me as if we're friends."
"Indeed. We only have one path in front of us."
"Rather than wasting time bickering, we should put our minds to work solving this mystery."
"Makoto's nit-picky nature seems to have surfaced with perfect timing..."
"I knew you couldn't be just some ordinary person. You're some kind of...abnormality."
"TH-They couldn't possibly be gone! The Togami family is destined to guide the world!"
"What's the matter? You're not actually trying to encourage me, are you? Hmph. Ridiculous. It never even crossed my mind that I might give in to despair. But don't misunderstand me. I couldn't care in the slightest what happens to you. I just have to keep my word. I swore I would end the life of the mastermind. Besides, the Togami family *isn't* dead. Because I'm still alive... So until I can restore the Togami family, and bring it greater glory than it's ever known...!"
"I already said I would claim the mastermind's life, by whatever means necessary."
"Let me tell you this right now. We no longer fear despair."
Epilogue:

"To rebuild the world, we must first rebuid the Togami dynasty."
"You know how much I hate being annoyed. But if something does come up, you may as well let me know. I can't guarantee I'll actually bother listening, but you know..."
Creation and 
Byakuya Togami Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
Byakuya's was intended to be a cool character from the beginning, but because character designer Rui Komatsuzaki was not confident in drawing bishoujo/bishounen characters he ended up being the character that had the most retakes. After initially reading the game plot Rui imagined Byakuya as a cool dark hero so he gave him a biker-type design, but was told to make him look more clearly like the heir to a fortune so he ended up with a basic suit. In the beginning he was planned to be the protagonists real rival, but after Genocide Jack appeared he lost his bite and became her foil.

His first name is Japanese for "white night", an occurrence in the Arctic or Antarctic circles, and his last name translates as "Ten Gods".
Byakuya claims to have a personal fund of 400 billion yen, or 4 billion dollars in the English localization.
He appears to be fluent in French, as he was easily able to read Mukuro's Fenrir Mercenary Corps profile that was written entirely in French.
He enjoys reading, watching movies and pool games.
He dislikes most comics, though he admits that a few have received worldwide acclaim.
He knows how to play all the standard instruments, as its part of a typical education of a Togami family member.
Byakuya and Makoto are the only characters to appear in every canon games and anime of the Hope's Peak Academy Saga.
Byakuya's official artwork for Danganronpa features him wearing a necktie, when in the game he wears a cross tie.
07-21
Byakuya in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent.

Byakuya's former high school, Green Hills High School, is a reference to Green Hill Zone, a level in the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise.
Byakuya appears as a guest character in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent. His Max ATK is 7080 while his Max HP is 4700. His weapon is the Megaphone Hacking Gun and its ability is doubled attack power. His deathblow is "Envy of an Influential Voice". Shortly after the deathblow is used, the allies' attack power increases, but so does the amount of received damage.
Interestingly, he has the least amount of HP and attack power out of all the Danganronpa guest characters.
Byakuya's voice actor, Jason Wishnov, also provides the voice for the Ultimate Imposter (when they are in their Byakuya disguise) in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair and Monodam in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Grand Bois Chéri Ludenberg Hit List PhotoLittle is known about Celestia's family life, due to her constant lying it is hard to perceive what is and what is not real about her family. She described her father as being of French nobility and her mother being part of a German family of musicians however Makoto Naegi presumed this to be false. She stated being given the name 'Celestia Ludenberg' by her parents however this is later discovered to be an untruth so it is likely that her parents descendancy is also a falsehood. However Makoto does believe that she came from the capital of Tochigi Prefecture, Utsunomiya where she came to love her favorite food gyoza despite stating it to be 'vulgar' and 'malodorous' which could possibly insinuate her hatred of the unsophisticated lifestyle she was born into in Japan.
It is discovered that while growing up she had a cat named Grand Bois Chéri Ludenberg who she loved dearly and made sure to spoil and pamper. She was eventually able to get him to enjoy her favorite food, gyoza, and this then became his own favorite showing the close bond between the two during her childhood. He became a captive for Monokuma's first motive during the Killing School Life which shows her cat was the closest thing to her rather than any of her living family members. The reason for this is unknown however it is possible that Grand Bois Chéri Ludenberg was the only known relative she had while growing up or it may be the case that she had a cold and distant relationship with the rest of her family due to her search for sophistication and her developed pretentious demeanor during childhood which caused her to abandon them completely for her own dreams.

Celestia's Childhood Aspirations

Danganronpa 1 CG - Celestia Ludenberg's dream lifeSome time during her childhood she began aspiring to be like European royalty, such as wearing Lolita clothing, using an old English accent (English localization only) and changing her name to a fake one that had connotations of European royalty. Her other mannerisms and strict, spoiled nature emphasizes this. She seems to have lived a life of fake stories surrounding her past due to the nature of her profession, as a gambler she is known to lie and conceal which is likely why she reveals so little about her real life past. Her goal in life throughout her childhood was to live in a big fancy European castle with handsome male servants dressed as vampires to become her own personal secret service and butlers. She wants to live in an idealistic world based off of aesthetic decadence which is an unusual aspiration given the contemporary society in which she was born into. It is unknown why she yearns to follow traditional Victorian morality, but she appears to hate her real self, as she dislikes ordinary and common things and changing her real name which was most likely given to her by her parents is testament to her dislike of her real identity.
Gambling Life 
It seems likely that she grew up without the support of her family members, as her dream to acquire a European Castle was only made possible through winning large sums of money via gambling. This was likely her only source of income and during this time she may have lived alone with only her cat until being scouted by Hope's Peak Academy. Notable occasions where Celestia put her life on the line for large sums of money in order to acquire her dream was when playing Russian roulette mahjong in the basement of a large mansion, her opponents being an old man who was a billionaire and a silver-haired boy who possessed a considerable amount of luck himself. She defeated them both at once and the crowd that had been invited to watch were in shock, she stated this to be one of her "fonder memories" which could possibly show her lack of a childhood as gambling is mostly all she has ever known. Makoto stated that he couldn't comprehend Celestia's "fearsome past" however Celestia's desire to gamble was one of the many enjoyments during her early life due to the risks of success for claiming her dream. She was renowned for managing to rob any who challenged her of all their money. Due to her nature, she was given the title "Queen of Liars".

Acceptance to Hope's Peak Academy 
Celestia's previous high school is unknown before she was scouted by Hope's Peak Academy as part of the Class 78th under the title the Ultimate Gambler by Koichi Kizakura after she made an name for herself in the underground gambling circuit. The reason for her accepting the offer of being educated at Hope's Peak Academy was due to being able to have unlimited success for the rest of her life and this would have sped up the process of achieving her dream which had always been her life goal.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Class Photo of Celestia, Hifumi, and SayakaIn photos found by Makoto, it showed Celestia playfully attacking Hifumi Yamada while aggravated. This was just one of her many moments during High School at Hope's Peak Academy.

The 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc #11
Celeste during the tragedyDuring The Tragedy, Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. The students of Class 78th agreed to his plan, and they sealed the building together. Celestia is seen casually drinking tea at a small table while her classmates work to seal up the school. The students lived peacefully inside the school building for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.
Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Celestia was among those who were chosen to attend Hope's Peak Academy as part of Class 78th. She, along with her fellow classmates, ended up being trapped inside the school, not knowing at the time that they had already been memory-wiped of their two years of school life together. Celestia is around 19 years old, though she believed that she was only 17 because of the memory loss.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Students at the School Entrance When Makoto introduced himself, he immediately questioned Celestia's name and identity, not believing it to be real however she forcefully reassured him that it was indeed her real name. He chose to be careful around her, relating to a thread that he had read online, he discovered her to be an excellent gambler and he could easily perceive her deception and lying sentiment.
The students soon became forced into the mutual killing incident. As an incentive to murder in order to escape, the students were each given a DVD featuring a video from Monokuma which implied that their loved ones were in danger. Celestia's video featured her most beloved relative, her pet cat Grand Bois Chéri Ludenberg.

After the students discovered there was no way out of Hope's Peak Academy on the 1st floor, Celestia was pleased to announce to everyone that they now had to adapt to their new lives at the school and thus nobody would get hurt. Taking leadership of the group, she issued a rule that nobody should be allowed to go out of their dormitory at nighttime, something that the school rules did not specify that she wished to make official. The class agreed to comply to Celestia's rule in order to limit the chances of a murder occurring and remove anxious thoughts.

The DVDs gave Sayaka Maizono the incentive to attempt to murder Leon Kuwata, but her plan backfired and Sayaka was killed by Leon. It was then after the death of Junko Enoshima that Celestia callously stated that those unwilling to adapt deserved to die and showed no mercy to those who did not follow the school rules put in place.

Boy's Life of 
Following the events of the first Class Trial, the next morning the class reconvened in the Dining Hall to discuss their plan of action. Celestia explained that the game they were all involved in was incredibly intricate and that the mastermind must likely be very powerful to create highly advanced technology such as Monokuma and take over a well defended Hope's Peak Academy, stating that defying the mastermind was simply too great a risk.

Monokuma then revealed that other areas of the school were now open to explore and so Celestia, along with the remainder of the class, started their search however they found no exit. Celestia was pleased to gain new and interesting facilities, stating she'd be happy to have class trials more often.

Danganronpa the Animation (Episode 04) - Male Bonding (051)The next morning after again meeting in the Dining Hall, Celestia stated being thirsty and demanded some milk tea. She was able to manipulate Hifumi to make her some however she lost her temper and shouted at him when he failed to make it correctly the first time, as he had added the milk after the brewing process rather than during which was not what she was used to ordering. She forced him to make it again properly, the other students stating after that they had never seen that side of her personality before.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Celestia Ludenberg seeing Chihiro Fujisaki in the supply roomAfter Chihiro Fujisaki's murder and during the following class trial Celestia was able to play a part in revealing Mondo Owada as the culprit, having encountered Chihiro in the storage room prior to his death. During their encounter, Celestia noticed Chihiro was holding a duffle bag with a blue tracksuit partially hanging out, which he stuffed back inside before going off in a hurry so she wouldn't be able to notice. Kyoko Kirigiri was able to force a slip of the tongue from Mondo when explaining that Chihiro had picked out a tracksuit that matched the culprits. Mondo became concerned and stated having a black tracksuit rather than Chihiro's blue tracksuit however Chihiro's tracksuit color was not specified by Celestia during her testimony and she was then able to reveal after that it was in fact blue.
Celestia's 
Danganronpa 1 CG - Monokuma's money motiveAfter Mondo's execution Monokuma revealed his next motive to prompt another murder, 10 million dollars in cash for whoever graduated from Hope's Peak Academy. Celestia wishing to achieve her dream of owning a large European castle with many male servants saw the perfect opportunity to win the money and escape the school. From a young age she had bet her life on gambling in order to win vast amounts of money that could help her achieve her dream and while she was successful, the amount of money she earned wasn't enough.
When the opportunity arose she crafted her plan of action by kidnapping Alter Ego and hiding them in a locker. She then approached Hifumi, who had grown attached to the AI that Chihiro had made before his death and was continuously in conflict with Kiyotaka Ishimaru over who it deserved to spend time with more.

Danganronpa 1 Hifumi becoming Celestias Accomplice She explained to Hifumi that Kiyotaka had abused her physically and threatened her to steal Alter Ego for him by taking obscene photos of her that he could use as blackmail. She further stated that in order to keep Alter Ego for himself he was planning to murder Hifumi too. Hifumi, believing the lie, became enraged with Kiyotaka and was manipulated into helping Celestia's plot to escape the school.

Once Hifumi had become convinced the two began to conspire, Celestia and Hifumi were able to trick Yasuhiro Hagakure into coming to the Rec Room and were then able to force him unconscious with chloroform. Once unconscious they put him into the Robo Justice suit, a large robotic model made of cardboard which Hifumi had made in order to cover any persons face and body as Celestia had specified Hifumi then positioned himself to look as though he was being attacked by Robo Justice and Celestia began taking pictures on a digital camera in order to prove this as fact and to lay suspicion on Yasuhiro. Once Yasuhiro was of no further use they shoved him into the Pool Room Locker to be discovered by the students later.

The next phase of the plan was to murder Kiyotaka, who was lured to the equipment room where he was to be killed through a fake note made by Celestia explaining she may have discovered an exit to the school. Hifumi, using the 4th of four "Justice Hammers" he made out of painted mallets from the Art Room, killed Kiyotaka with a blow to head and left the 4th Justice Hammer at the scene of the crime.

Celestia injured Hifumi and Celestia then both faked being attacked by Robo Justice with Justice Hammer 1 (in the Rec Room) and Justice Hammer 2 (in the Library). Shortly after, Hifumi faked another attack with Justice Hammer 3 in the Nurse's Office, which resulted in his supposed "death".
He was able to fake his death by covering himself in transfusion blood from the Nurse's office and laying on the floor. The class presume he is dead due to the body discovery announcement being sounded however this was only for members of the class discovering Kiyotaka's body.

A previously planned scream from Celestia allowed Hifumi to sneak out of the Nurse's office due to the attention being drawn away from him and this gave him time to move Kiyotaka's body to the Art Room with a dolly. The class being notified that Hifumi had disappeared left for the Nurse's office once again which meant Hifumi could move freely around the 3rd floor. Once Hifumi had moved Kiyotaka's body, Celestia met with him in the Art Room to discuss their plan of action next. Celestia had convinced Hifumi that she was planning to kill someone of her own in order to remove suspicion on him however this was yet another lie and their meeting in the Art Room ended in Hifumi's death. As he was celebrating his success, Celestia attacked him with a normal mallet from the Repository and left him for dead after giving him a blow to the head, joining the rest of her class.

Celestia's 
Class Trial

Celestia Ludenberg Halfbody Sprite (11) During the subsequent Class Trial, Celestia urged the students to declare Yasuhiro as the culprit to both the murder of Kiyotaka and Hifumi given the fact that Robo Justice matched Yasuhiro's exact height and because the blueprints and suit parts for the model was found in his room. Hifumi's dying words also stated "Yasuhiro" was the one who had attacked him. However despite this incriminating evidence, Makoto wasn't so easily convinced, and with the help of Kyoko and Byakuya Togami was able to reveal the culprit due to two major factors.
Celestia had at often times been the only one to see Robo Justice's movements, such as when it attacked her with one of the Justice hammers, when she spotted it heading for the 2nd floor and when she let out a scream to bring the students to the physics lab on the 3rd floor. It was at that point it became clear that Celestia had manipulated the situation for the purpose of allowing her accomplice Hifumi to move freely and put her plan into action. Her scream on the 3rd floor moved the class away from Hifumi's position, allowing him to scream from the Nurse's office and fake his death which meant the class split into two groups which Celestia herself had suggested. Once Makoto, Aoi Asahina, and Celestia had discovered Hifumi's supposed dead body, Aoi felt sick and was taken to the bathroom by Celestia while Makoto left to tell the others on the 3rd floor who had discovered Kiyotaka's body that Hifumi was dead. This gave Hifumi the opportunity to leave the Nurse's office and wait for the class to come back from the 3rd floor before leaving for the physics lab where he could move Kiyotaka's body.

When Byakuya and Sakura Ogami had returned to Nurse's office, Celestia stated the murderer was enjoying themselves seeing the class helpless and that they would all die just like "those guys" did. This slip of the tongue proved Celestia knew about Kiyotaka's murder beforehand, as she mentioned two people and referred to both of them as male.

Celestia denies being guilty Celestia tried to convince the class that Robo Justice did have a hand in the murders in order to take the suspicions off of her, referring to the picture she took of Hifumi being dragged away however the suit itself didn't move at the waist meaning it was impossible that it could have dragged Hifumi away, rather it was balanced on his back. This proved that Celestia and Hifumi had partnered up when taking part in the murders. At this point Celestia had changed from being polite, presenting unusually rude mannerisms. Celestia reiterated Hifumi's dying words where he referred to Yasuhiro being his killer however Makoto wasn't convince that Hifumi was mentioning Yasuhiro as Hifumi would always refer to those around him with their last name. While the name Hifumi mentioned didn't fit anyone else's description, Makoto requested Celestia reveal her e-Handbook profile which she was unable to do. She admitted to murdering Hifumi and involving him in her plan to make the case much more difficult to piece together.
Class Trial Verdict 
Monokuma revealed her real name to be Taeko Yasuhiro (安広 多恵子), following her guilty verdict. Celestia did not show any remorse for the deaths of Hifumi or Kiyotaka as she stated following her dream to the very end was what was most important. Aoi and Yasuhiro did not understand why she wanted to commit murder when she was the one who preached having to "adapt" to their new lives. However Celestia admitted she wanted to leave the Academy more than anyone and that she was simply lying, this was due to never being able to achieve her dream if she had to be trapped in Hope's Peak Academy forever.

Celestia and Kyoko shake hands She stated wanting to die "gracefully" and be reincarnated as Marie Antoinette, not afraid to be executed however Makoto saw through her smile and realized she was indeed afraid, despite her natural façade in deceiving her own emotions. Before being executed, Celestia approached Kyoko for a final goodbye, giving her the key to the locker she had hid Alter Ego in and stating she was unsure what kind of hope it could have given them. She then bid her classmates farewell, willingly accepting her execution.
Execution 
Celestia is executed by being stood in front of a large crowd of Monokuma's, standing stationary on a large pile of flammable wood. Her execution, The Burning of the Versailles Witch, shares the same similarities to that of a Witch-hunt, something that seems to be preferred by Celestia given her love of the Gothic. A Monokuma lights the flammable wood with a flaming torch causing the fire to spread and surround Celestia, her choosing not to run. However while the fire is enveloped around her, a fire truck appears from the distance and mounts a ramp in order to crash into her and kill her instantly.

Danganronpa 1 Chapter 3 Execution
Danganronpa 1 Chapter 3 Execution

Post-Killing School 
Makoto's 
Main Article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc #11
Celes, Oogami, and Yamada's death Celestia is seen alongside her deceased classmates in Makoto's hallucination. Celestia is later seen on fire while next to her other deceased classmates Sakura and Hifumi as all the deceased of Class 78th morph into how they looked when they died during the Killing School Life.
Creation and 
Celestia Ludenberg Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
Celestia's basic design did not undergo a drastic change between DISTRUST and Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc, most examples of in-development art of Celestia showcase her usual gothic lolita-style outfit, being consistently goth-Lolita since the planning stages. The character designer, Rui Komatsuzaki, has a personal interest in goth-lolita fashion, so the design advanced to its final stage without much deviation. However, Celestia was a bother to draw due to the goth-lolita style's many ornaments and embellishments, as well as her clip-on twin tails. Her designed outfit consists of the same black jacket, white blouse with a Peter-Pan collar with white ribbons in her hair. However different styles of her hair were trialed from her two large twin-drill pigtails. Versions including shorter pigtails, her hair left without clip-ons, her hair consisting of pigtails however far less curly and straggled pigtails.

Her uniform remained mostly unchanged, however changes between DISTRUST and Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc did include what was originally red ribbons in her hair rather than white including a red ribbon placed on her blouse which was then replaced for a white ribbon with a red tie underneath. She was also originally designed to wear earrings resembling the cross which related to her love of the gothic however this was converted to simple gold circular earrings. Her knee high socks were originally white striped black however the final design instead kept the socks fully black with white frills at the opening. Her body was originally designed to be of a much thinner build with a far more softer looking face resembling a more realistic appearance of a doll, Celestia was made to look more doll-like than the other characters, so her skin's saturation lowered considerably. She is noted to be relatively tall because she's of average height but wears high heels. She was also designed wearing a crown, relating to her desire to own a castle and be of royalty, with another design of her holding a bunny mannequin doll, again representing her love for the gothic.


Celestia's name in the Japanese release, "セレスティア・ルーデンベルク" is romanized as "Seresutia Rūdenberuku", making the original anglicized version Celestia Ludenberck.

The name "Celestia" is a given name of Latin origin which means "heavenly", unsurprisingly so given Celestia chose this name for herself to represent her fine decadence. Celestia's self-styled last name, "Ludenberg", is most probably a combination of the Latin verb "ludere", meaning "to play", with the common suffix for last names of German or Dutch origin "-berg", meaning "mountain" - thus making the last name Celestia came up with for herself consistent with both her title and her false claim that she is of German ancestry. While Celestia is her full fake name, she also doesn't mind being referred to as "Celes" by other characters in the Japanese version of the game, while in the localization the characters call her "Celeste." It might also be that Celestia's last name is a combination of Erich Ludendorff and Paul Von Hindenburg last names, both men being of German ancestry which Celestia herself aspired towards. Celestia's made-up surname also matches the name of a district in Dusseldorf, further befitting her false claims of German ancestry. It is clear the last name Ludenberg is of heavy German descent.

The Chinese transliteration of her name is 賽蕾絲蒂亞・魯丹貝洛克 (Sàilěisīdìyà Lǔdānbèiluòkè). A few of the characters present in the transliteration have some interesting meanings that relate to Celestia's appearance and talent. 賽 (sài) means "competition, contest", which relates to her talent in gambling and how it is a contest of sorts. 丹 (dān) means "red", which could be referencing Celestia's eye color. 貝 (bèi) means "seashell" in modern Chinese, but in classical Chinese, bèi was a word that meant "money, currency", as shells were used as currency in ancient China. This meaning of money relates to gambling, which is playing games of chance for financial gain.

Celestia's actual given name, "Taeko" (多恵子), roughly means 'many miracles " - making it somewhat fitting for Celestia, who considers her luck extraordinary and even admits at one point that her great success as a gambler is partially due to sheer luck. Celestia's actual last name, "Yasuhiro" (安広), literally means "peaceful and spacious". It could also hint at an unfortunate background, as another meaning for the character 安 is "cheap" or "low" - making it quite clear why Celestia, who strives to appear as a cultured woman, claimed to be the daughter of a European aristocrat (clearly a lie), as she is embarrassed of her last name and its representation of her character.

Alternate 
Sonia-Nevermind-Pixel-for-Jpn-Template	The section below is based on non-localized content only available in Japanese.
As such, this information is based on fan-contributed translation.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Everyone escapes (Another End) (2)The Danganronpa 3 box set included a feature detailing an alternate ending of Danganronpa called Danganronpa Another End which ultimately never made it out of the development phase. In this ending, all of the students escape, at the cost of giving up their talent forever. In Celestia's ending, while she is downhearted about losing her quick and easy way to make money through gambling, she now wishes to sell her own handmade clothing, presumably of luxurious material, as she wants to sell these clothes at an expensive price for making them with "her love".
Celestia also escapes Hope's Peak alive, with the rest of her classmates, in the novel Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc IF.


Danganronpa 1 Character Design Profile Celestia Celestia is 5'5" and weighs 101 lbs. She has a slim figure and pale skin. She has black hair in two large twin-drill pigtails. However, these appear to be clip-ons, as mentioned in the art book and evidenced in the event of the girls bathing in Chapter 2, as she is seen without them. She has red eyes and gold circular earrings which have an image depicting the cross engraved into them with a red gem placed in the center in each. She also has long, black nails.
Celestia wears a gothic lolita-style outfit, consisting of a white blouse with a Peter-Pan collar, a black jacket that includes white ribbon lacing down the sleeves, fastened by a simple white ribbon across her chest to reveal her red tie (consisting of a butterfly pattern layered on top of various spears with skulls attached to it) and the waist of her skirt, which is many-tiered and features white lace.

Celestia wears knee-high stockings trimmed in ladder lace, red mary janes with a thick heel held on her feet by three grey buckles, a white lace Mob cap and a silver, Gunmetal plated ring (reminiscent of a Gunmetal Armour ring designed by Vivienne Westwood) layered in overlapping sections on her index finger which is likely her gambling lucky charm.

DR1 Present 112 Celeste's UndergarmentsThese are Celestia's favorite dark-hued undergarments. The tulle lace is of a regal quality, giving off the distinct vibe of a queen. Supposedly a C-rank human cannot stand gazing upon them, possibly due to the fact that they are of a lower status than Celeste and her fine clothing.

As an experienced gambler, Celestia appears collected, cold and cunning by nature. She possesses the ability to manipulate others to do her bidding and can lie with a straight face, this is shown when she is able to manipulate Hifumi to make her royal milk tea and further be her accomplice during Chapter 3. She is shown to be fairly intelligent, referencing several aspects of game theory such as Prisoner's Dilemma or Zero Sum Game and her manipulative and coercion skills are shown in Chapter 3, being able to deceive the majority of the students, including Byakuya up until the class trial. Her intelligence is also shown in previous cases in which she, alongside Kyoko, Byakuya, and Makoto are the ones to bring up crucial points and is also capable of keeping up with Byakuya and Kyoko's train of thought during the trials as well.

Celestia is a very ambitious person, as she declared that she will do anything it takes to win, and is ready to go as far as murdering someone or manipulating others in cold blood. She is extremely selfish and values her life over the lives of others, stating she has no problem sacrificing others in order to save herself. She also has a lot of pride, refusing to surrender no matter how far into a corner she's pushed, as long as the chance for victory remains.

Celestia believes in adaptability to be the key to survival, rather than strength or intellect, and she acts upon this by setting up measures such as the voluntarily imposed night-time curfew to protect the other students, as well as herself, from potential killers during the Killing School Life. She often reminds others to obey the curfew and is often annoyed when people such as Byakuya Togami, violate the curfew, showing her authoritative and commanding nature. After the death of Chihiro, she coldly remarks that people who disobey the rules pay the price. In reality she was lying about having to adapt and more than anyone wanted to leave the school, showing how easy it is for her to hide her emotions.

Her mannerisms are strict, refined and her spoiled nature emphasizes this due to her aspiring to be like European royalty. She even has a habit of ranking men between Rank A and Rank F, supposedly to test who is worthy of being one of her servants. She despises her real self as she dislikes ordinary and common things and considers her real identity and name to be one of "a loser". Celestia speaks softly and smiles often in order to imitate Victorian mannerisms and etiquette as a lady. She usually uses polite language whenever she talks to the others, but her short-temperedness surfaces when something fails to go as well as she expects it to, such as when Hifumi fails to make her royal milk tea as she likes it. Another example is during the third Class Trial when she accused of being the blackened, Celestia quickly lost her composure after being accused of murder. She shouted and denied accusations towards her with unusually rude mannerisms, often using vulgar language.

To further keep up her Western masquerade, Celestia often does things such as using the Japanese transliteration of the English "gambler" (ギャンブラー), instead of the Japanese term "shōbushi" (勝負師) and claiming her parents are of European ancestry.

As the Queen of Liars, Celestia claimed that she can even fool her own emotions, but this doesn't seem to be entirely the case. She appears to lack empathy and claims that she feels no guilt for the nefarious acts she committed in the gambling underworld. Despite her status as a consummate liar, before she was executed she presented a smile but Makoto was still able to recognize her fear within. Celestia has a habit of deceiving her own emotions and so even in defeat always keeps a constant poise.

Talents and 
Ultimate 
Danganronpa 1 Celestia Ludenberg English Game Introduction At a young age, she became a gambler and won countless games, even ones at the stake of her own life, but was able to win regardless. She states during a game of King of Liars, she spilled tea on her favorite dress and she had to end the game quickly to take it to the cleaners. She once even managed to accumulate over ten million dollars. She also won a Shogi tournament despite not really knowing how to play the game. Though her poker-face helped, she claims that the secret to her success is the luck she was born with. She was renowned for managing to rob any who challenged her of all their money and she gained the title "Queen of Liars". She kept earning money for her main goal in life - to live out the rest of her days in luxury in a big fancy European castle with handsome man servants from all around the world dressed as vampires.
In other 
Celestia's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

Ultimate Gambler
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「ギャンブラー」	Super High School Level Gambler
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"賭徒"	Super High School Level Gambler
中文超高校级的"赌徒"	Super High School Level Gambler(DRtA)
DeutschSuper-Zockerin	Super-Gambler (DRtA)
FrançaisLa Joueuse Ultime	Ultimate Player (DRV3)
ItalianoSuper Scommettitrice Liceale	Super High School Level Gambler(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Jugadora	Super High School Student Level: Player (DRtA)
Queen of Liars

She was renowned for managing to rob any who challenged her of all their money, taking part in life-risking gambling underworld tournaments and having the ability to lie when faced with difficult matches. Celestia is able to lie with ease about her character, convincing those around her that her real name is "Celestia Ludenberg" while referencing various manga stories when it came to her gambling exploits. She is also able to lie about her line of descent, though seemingly originating from Japan she states to be of German and French background and was able to lie about her parents associated ancestry. While Makoto suspected she was lying, she was very convincing when manipulating Hifumi into making her royal milk tea and murdering Kiyotaka, by lying that he had abused and threatened her to steal Alter Ego.

Superior Intelligence

Celestia is able to manipulate situations to her advantage by using Robo Justice as an object to convince everyone of Yasuhiro's supposed deceit. It is only during the class trial that the students begin to unravel the truth of Celestia's complicated plan that was successful through a various number of planned intricacies.

Celestia explained to Makoto during her Free Time Events that she once partook in a gambling match without understanding the rules of the game however was still able to overcome her opponent, presenting her quick thinking and intelligence under pressure.


Family:
Grand Bois Chéri 
Grand Bois Chéri Ludenberg is Celestia's pet cat. She enjoyed his company and pampered him, and most likely she was planning on having him with her in her dream mansion.

Grand Bois Chéri was also Celestia's Captive and closer to her than anyone else. This implies that she didn't care for any people, including possible blood family.

Class 78th:
Hifumi 
Hifumi and Celestia's relationship consists primarily of her bossing him around and using him as her servant. A prime example of this is when Hifumi makes Celestia tea, only for her to dash the cup to the ground, claiming that she only drinks royal milk tea. This is later taken to greater extents as Celestia manipulates him into murdering Kiyotaka with the premise of escaping the academy alongside her, using a photograph of Alter Ego in Kioytaka's room to provoke Hifumi's anger; however, she subsequently betrays him by murdering him in a similar fashion, then framing Yasuhiro.

Shortly after Celestia and Hifumi's deaths, the survivors found a picture of the two and Sayaka together. In it, Celestia seems to be angry with Hifumi, indicating that their relationship was the same during their time in high school. However it seems to be of a more friendly and playful nature as Hifumi is amused by Celestia's reaction rather than afraid, this is different from Hifumi's reactions to Celestia's bullying and manipulation during the Killing School Life. This shows that they may have had a friendship during high school at Hope's Peak Academy.

During Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's non-canon bonus mode, when Kokichi Oma lies to Celestia that Hifumi inflated himself and popped like a balloon, she barely reacts and only finds it inconvenient because he makes her tea. She knows Kokichi is just lying, but the situation likely reflects how little she truly cares about Hifumi.

Makoto 
Celestia seemed to be rather fond of Makoto and was curious to see if his luck as the Ultimate Lucky Student could beat her own luck as the Ultimate Gambler. When she does her personal ranking, she ranked him with C-rank, which is higher than any of her classmates. While Makoto considers Celestia a friend, he is intimidated by her luck and is afraid of her alternate personality when she becomes aggressive. He also doesn't know whether to believe if someone were of F-Rank that Celestia would have them personally killed, given her hatred of uninteresting people.

Makoto is the only person in the class who isn't convinced of Celestia's lying, not believing her name or ancestry to be real. During their Free Time Events together, Celestia opened up a little to her past childhood and stated she originated from Japan and liked the food gyoza, something which Makoto was more inclined to believe. It is likely Celestia revealed a small amount of her real self because she began to trust Makoto a lot more as a friend and at the end of her Free Time Events, told Makoto he was eligible to be her personal bodyguard, her "knight". Makoto stated he would think about it, at which Celestia became vexed, likely wanting him to agree right then and there.

Yasuhiro 
During the Killing School Life, Celestia planned to frame Yasuhiro in order to escape the school. The reason why is because Yasuhiro was the most "stupid" student in Celestia's mind, stating she pitied Yasuhiro's parents for having to put up with a son such as him. It is likely Yasuhiro, in Celestia's mind, was ranked lower than D-Rank as she was so willing to condemn him to murder with no remorse. However while clearly seeing him as insignificant to her and her own dreams, when Celestia stated she wanted to be reincarnated as "Marie Antoinette", Yasuhiro comically remarked that she would only die again, causing Celestia to laugh for her final words. While she may have still disliked Yasuhiro, it is possible she may have thought him less insignificant if she had taken the time to get to know him.

Kiyotaka 
During the Killing School Life, Celestia had a plan to manipulate Hifumi into killing Kiyotaka since she felt annoyed with him and Hifumi for fighting over Alter Ego and saw their negative feelings for each other as an opportunity for her to escape. Celestia lied to Hifumi that Kiyotaka stole Alter Ego and also lied about how Kiyotaka abused and threatened her, these largely shocking accusations show that Celestia and Kiyotaka had no friendship as she easily manipulated Hifumi into killing Kiyotaka and showed no remorse for his death. She put her own dreams above Kiyotaka's own life, showing that he was not impactful on her as a person in any sort of way.

In the bonus mode, she and Kiyotaka regularly play shogi, with Celestia usually winning and making Kiyotaka get her tea from the cafeteria. He then becomes determined to beat her. When Kiyotaka ties with her, she says it's luck, but he insists it's hard work. He later boasts about his dream world and Celestia bets against it.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Celestia Ludenberg & School Mode/Celestia Ludenberg
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Celestia in order to learn more about her. If he gives her a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Celestia will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Celestia's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

123456Dead
Celestia Ludenberg Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Utsunomiya	Ashikaga	Nikko
--	--	--
--	--	--
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 4 Rose Hip Tea DR1 Present 48 Rose Whip DR1 Present 18 Love Status Ring DR1 Present 59 Old Antique Doll DR1 Present 19 Zoles Diamond


Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Celestia grants the following skills:

Raise	Triples Monocoins found during School Life
Receive 10% more Monocoins after Class Trials.	Passive
Menacing Focus	Increases the Focus Gauge by 5.	4 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Celestia LudenbergMakoto is able to see inside Celestia's dorm room during Free Time events. Celestia's room reflects her love of gothic lolita style, even having an ornamental coffin. She has black lace tablecloth, and a candelabra. She displays tea sets, a crown and a victrola. She has a large case of beauty products and sewing supplies, and two outfits on mannequins - Celestia designs her own clothing. She has a gothic lolita themed cat plushie at the foot of her black bed which could be due to her love of cats including her own, Grand Bois Cheri Ludenberg.

DR1Extra
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"Maybe, but it may be good to at least find out who we all are before digging into the bigger problems here. I mean, how are we even supposed to talk to each other if we do not know each other's names?"
"I do not think we have been introduced. I am Celestia Ludenberg. Ludenberg. It is my name. But if you don't mind, I would prefer you to call me Celeste. Heh-heh. I don't know what you are talking about. Celestia Ludenberg *is* my real name. But as I mentioned, I would much rather you call me Celeste. I look forward to know you better. Heh-heh-heh..."
Chapter 1:

"Honestly, we are not exactly the types to go running around a school like a gaggle of junior detectives." (About Toko and Hifumi)
"I am just happy, that is all. It seems splitting up to investigate was a good idea, after all."
"Huh? Is it not crystal clear to you what is going on? It is perfectly obvious that we have been imprisoned in some secret location, with no way out."
"All we can do is adapt. Adapt to living our lives here from now on."
"A lack of adaptability...is a lack of survivability. Survival is not based on who is the strongest or the smartest. It comes down to who can adapt."
"As someone who has come out on top more than once, I have a suggestion. The way things are now, every time night comes we will all start to get worried and anxious. We will all be afraid someone might try and come kill us. If we have to worry about that night after night for who knows how long, it will wear us down in no time. However, unlike the other rules, nobody can be forced to comply. We all have to agree to follow it."
"If you can't stop yourself from showing weakness in front of others... ...you will die. I am not joking. Adaptability is survivability. Did I not say so? So you'd better hurry up and adapt to your new life here."
"In other words, the fear of invisible treachery becomes the greatest enemy of stability."
"It is amazing what some people are capable of."
"Continuing to think about and talk about the deceased certainly isn't going to help anything. How many times have I told you? Anyone who can't adapt...will die. Death is the only thing awaiting those who are unable or unwilling to adapt. If that happens, you only have yourself to blame."
"Your meaningless words tire me. Please stop wasting my time."
"You had any number of chances to stop what you were doing. But you chose not to. Is it not because you had an unclouded intent to commit murder?"
Chapter 2:

"Everything has been planned down to the last excruciating detail. This is not the work of your everyday psychopath. Defying them may be too great of a risk..."
"Whatever else is going on, I must admit things have been made much more comfortable for us. If things continue like this, the occasional class trial may not be so sad."
"A true gentleman will respect our space, yes?"
"If some man and some woman decided to share a room, there would be nothing to stop them."
"There is nothing I hate more than getting water on my face."
"Now, now. There is no point in taking your anger out on us. Adaptation is the key, yes? For now we must each find a way to enjoy our current situation."
"Adding milk or lemon right before you drink is like dousing your fries in ketchup—mere condiments!"
"It takes more time to prepare, surely, but... ...why even bother creating a menu if you are not going to offer the highest level of quality!?"
"That does not matter. Hurry up and bring me what I asked for, swine!"
"Hmm. I do so love coercion."
"Until my thirst is satisfied, I have no urge to do anything. If you are in a hurry, feel free to motivate Hifumi to move faster."
"He is right. It's a zero-sum game. It is a part of game theory, a mathematical model. In game theory, what we are going through now is called a "zero-sum game." In this type of game, in order for one person to gain something, another must necessarily lose something. In other words, it is a situation in which participants must compete for position or resources. Entrance exams, sports tournaments, job openings—most social interactions fall into this category. Everyone must scramble to obtain something which is limited. For you to succeed, someone else must fail. This also applies to the school life we have been subjected to here. In this case... ...our "limited resource" is that only one of us can successfully become the blackened. This is why adaptation is so crucial. If those who want to escape were to disappear, there would be no reason to continue playing the game."
"It sounds as if you do not acknowledge even the possibility that you may lose, am I right? You do not speak like the others. Exactly what I would expect from the Togami heir apparent."
"Do not bother arguing with him. For him, the concept of losing simply does not exist. He is the Ultimate Affluent Progeny, after all—a boy raised to succeed from the day he was born. He considers victory his destiny, and has lived his life accordingly. Tests and challenges are merely ways for him to stand victorious. Even if it is a life-and-death situation. ...Is that not so, Byakuya?"
"It is because I am the same as you. Games are meant to be won."
"How can you be so cold? You are like a piece of rock candy."
"Do you think so? It seems that is merely him displaying his passion... ...toward the production of this killing game."
"I said I don't wanna talk about it, you human bag of lard!"
"We have no time to stand around here. We must begin our investigation tout suite. If we do not solve the mystery of who killed Chihiro... ...then we will quickly follow her into the afterlife."
"If she hadn't broken our rule, none of this ever would have happened... You get what you deserve, I suppose."
"The rest of you had no idea, did you? That is why you're all making such ugly noises."
"And yet, this one does appear to be broken. As is Leon's, sitting useless in the main hall. For all your confidence, that is a remarkably high failure rate."
Chapter 3:

"We simply have to make the best of things—do our best to get along and live here together in peace. Forget about the outside world, and accept this new life. That is the only hope we have now. Here we have every convenience. We have food, clothes, our every need is seen ot. Why are you dissatisfied? In fact, let me ask you this? What is it about the outside world that you long for? Competition, discrimination, victimization and violence... As society grows, so does its perversion. In which case, is our current situation not—"
"The mastermind puts such base desire to their advantage, bending you to their will..."
"Hmm... There may well be a discovery waiting for us which may further enrich our life here."
"Life here would be that much nicer if he could add some new issues once in a while. How disappointing."
"It is rather unfortunate about the magazines, but still... I do believe our lives will improve significantly thanks to this little hideaway."
"There *is* one piece of good news. There just so happens to be a rec room up on the 3rd floor! I have no doubt that our student life here will be even more enjoyable because of it. Hmhm. Will someone join me in a game of Othello sometime?"
"It varies from person to person, but whenever someone lies, they tend to have a way of showing it. It is called a "tell"—something that you can't hide, no matter how hard you try. Whenever Hina lies, the tip of her nose gets just a little bit longer."
"Hmhm. If you are going to lie, at least try to lie convincingly."
"Let us hurry up and check the locker. The sooner we do that, the sooner we put this ridiculous story to rest."
"It is a simple computer program. It does not *have* feelings."
"Getting a chance to stretch out and relax after all this time was a true pleasure."
"Personally, I've earned over one million dollars from my gambling efforts. My life is...comfortable."
"For people wound as tight as he is, when you snap, you snap hard."
"Stop being vulgar. Let's eat breakfast."
"What good are you if you are too tired? You will be much more effective after a good night's sleep."
"You have no tears, do you? No blood in your veins, no calcium in your bones. At least you have your meat..."
"There is no shame in being wrong. Nobody expects much from you, anyway. We have all accepted the fact that you rarely understand what is going on around you."
"Ah, so I'm the suspicious individual no, am I? Hmhmhm. I really do hate this kind of joke..."
"The idea that I would choose to spend any amount of time interacting with him... That I would go within ten feet of that shit-for-brains! That lazy, worthless goddamn idiot! Ahem, pardonze-moi."
"Don't make me laugh, you idiot! What do you mean, checkmate!?"
"What the hell are you talking about!? I'll burn you alive!"
"To think you'd take your false accusations so far... I don't know whether to laugh or spit... Come on! Enough with your idiotic blather! Yasuhiro is a loser's name! Do I look like a loser to you!? Well!? Doooo I!? What!? I think I've earned the right to be a little on edge!"
"Even when I'm put in check, it's just my nature not to give up. Because... Because, because...because because because because because because—! Until the game's over, you never know what might happen!"
"I...lost? I lost...!? When was the last time...I was forced to utter such words? They hang heavy around my neck..."
"Hm. Heh... Listen to you, trying to take charge. As if you're my private instructor... I, Celestia Ludenberg—actually, no... Taeko Yasuhiro is fine..."
"I'm the kind of person, once I've lost, I don't like things to drag on."
"Okay, Monokuma. I'm ready to begin. Or, no... I suppose this is the end, isn't it?"
"I lost... Well, that sucks. I guess trying to work with someone else was a mistake, after all. Hifumi's ineptitude was beyond all my calculations."
"It was amazing how completely he bought it. Hmhm... I can't express how enjoyable that was."
"Hifumi agreed without a second thought. Hmhm. The effect that item had on him was...remarkable. The power of love... Even a love as twisted as that can still drive people mad, it would seem. (About his obsession toward Alter Ego)
"Because you're stupid. And in that regard, I made the right choice. I'm so glad your stupidity surpassed my every expectation. Life must have been tough on your parents, though."
"I just matched the lie to the level of the opponent. In fact, Hifumi ate it up. He believed the lie wholeheartedly, right up until the moment of his death."
"That's a non-issue. I simply did everything in my power to win."
"No, he derives his pleasure from the thrill of the hunt. In that aspect, we are nothing alike."
"From the moment our new life here began, my only thought has been escape."
"Obviously that was a lie! I couldn't take it! I hated it from day one! More than anyone anyone ANYONE else in here! I wanted to get out! Every day was fresh torture! And do you wanna know why? HUH!? Because...I had a dream. And accepting a life here would have meant nothing less than giving up on my dream forever... And there was no way...that I could ever do that. In the underground world of gambling, I risked my life to make a metaphorical killing. And it was all for that dream... To live in a European castle. And to gather handsome men from all over the world to serve as my butlers-slash-bodyguards. I was going to make them dress up like vampires and satisfy my every need. Once I obtained that, I would have created a perfectly aesthetic world of decadence... Living the rest of my life there was my only dream, my only goal... That's what life is all ABOUT! Combined with my own winnings, Monokuma's ten million dollars would have made that dream a reality. I got right to the edge, but... Unfortunately, my dream has been scattered to the wind. Still, I don't have any regrets. I pursued my dream till the very end, so why would I?"
"Are you asking me to feel guilty? That's a pointless endeavor. I think nothing of sacrificing others for my own ends. I feel nothing. That's all there is to me. That's what makes me...complete. Hmhm. Isn't it terrifying how different our values are? There's simply no room for understanding."
"Hmph. My ability to lie is unrivaled, and I take pride in that. It's not just other people—I can even fool my own emotions. The conscious deceives the unconscious."
"That's right. I don't fear death. Kill me however you like. But you know, if I could be reincarnated... If I had a choice, then... ...I think I would like to come back as Marie Antoinette. Hmhm. Hehe...hehehe."
"Will it really give you the hope you're looking for? I can't say I ever saw it that way... Which is why... Actually, it's not important. Well then...take care, everyone. Perhaps we'll meet again, in another life."
List of 
GamesAnimeLight NovelsMangaMusicStage Plays
DISTRUST (Scrapped)
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa: Unlimited Battle

In some Free Time Events, Celestia makes references to a few gambling-themed manga series:
She states that she played mahjong against a "crazy rich old man" and a "silver-haired boy", referencing the manga series Akagi.
She won a tournament of shogi against an "unusual maid", referencing the manga series 81diver.
She claims the most dangerous situation she ever found herself in was in a game of "The Liar King", in which she played against an unusual pair consisting of a "foolishly-honest girl" and a "master con artist", referencing the manga/drama series Liar Game.
In the non-canon Danganronpa V3 bonus mode, Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Celestia challenged Makoto and Nagito Komaeda to mahjong to test their luck. She then suggested they add the headmaster, Jin Kirigiri, to even things out. This is likely a reference to an official art from Danganronpa 1.2 Reload where the same event happened.
In a series of tweets from Kazutaka Kodaka during Valentine's Day of February 2013, he tweeted "in-character" as several of the Danganronpa cast, including Celestia.The tweet translates into this:
"Oh my. You actually ate that? Ehehehehehehehe. You should learn not to be so trusting of others–though it’s too late now."

Young Fujisaki HQWhen Chihiro was a child, he became the subject of harassment and bullying. He was always told to "be a man" and that he was "so weak despite being a boy", and because of that, Chihiro slowly but surely began to develop a "weakness complex". In order to escape the bullying, Chihiro began to dress as a girl so that people wouldn't bully him as a weak boy. This only served to worsen his complex, as it wasn't addressing the root of his problems, and he would get bullied even more if the truth was found out.

ChihirotaichiBecause he was too weak to play outside with his friends, Chihiro spent most of his time on the computer. His father, Taichi Fujisaki, was a software engineer that developed many major computer programs, and while using his computer Chihiro found an incomplete information retrieval system that utilized voice input. This led to him creating his own modifications to it, and he soon realized that he could write programs by himself. Chihiro's father praised him for his work and, as he finally found something he could take pride in, he became absorbed in programming.
As a teen genius, Chihiro became famous for creating cutting-edge programs, to the point that he started developing top-secret AI programs for an unnamed company. Due to him resembling a "timid little bunny" (and because he was believed to be a female), he gained several fans.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Class Photo of Mondo, Leon, and ChihiroChihiro attended St. Elbandia Academy and was later scouted to attend Hope's Peak Academy under the title of The Ultimate Programmer. Based on photos seen by Makoto Naegi, it appears that during his school life Chihiro was good friends with Mondo Owada and Leon Kuwata.
Prior to The 
Main article: Danganronpa Zero
Yūto Kamishiro mentions an underclassman at Hope's Peak Academy who is exceptionally good with computers and who occasionally monitors the school's servers for him. This student is implied to be Chihiro.

Chihiro found an unsigned email that was sent to the Reserve Course students, saying that 15 students had gone missing and 13 of them were dead. Yūto who seems to have put a great deal of trust in Chihiro, deduced that the sender was Junko Enoshima, but didn't divulge the information to Chihiro out of concern for his safety.

The 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc #11
Taka, Leon, Mondo, ChihiroDuring The Tragedy, Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. The students of Class 78th agreed to his plan, and they sealed the building together. Chihiro helped Mondo carry a piece of metal. The students lived peacefully inside the school building for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.
Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa 1 CG - Students at the School EntranceChihiro was among those who were chosen to attend  Hope's Peak Academy as part of Class 78th. Class 78th ended up being trapped inside the school, not knowing at the time that they had already been memory-wiped of their two years of school life together. Chihiro was around 19 years old, though he believed he was only 17 because of the memory loss.
Chihiro is first seen by Makoto when he entered the main hall. When attempting to ask if they're all new students, Chihiro agreed. Aoi Asahina suggested they all introduce themselves, and when Chihiro did so, he admitted he found it embarrassing. Chihiro seemed to recognize Makoto and asked if they had met before, but Makoto denied it. Chihiro apologized because he assumed Makoto was upset with him, but Makoto reassured him that he wasn't.

The students soon became forced into the Mutual Killing Game. As a motive to murder in order to escape, the students were each given a DVD featuring a video from Monokuma which implied that their loved ones were in danger. Chihiro's video featured his father. The DVDs gave Sayaka Maizono the incentive to attempt to murder Leon, but her plan backfired and Sayaka was killed by Leon. During the investigation, Chihiro stayed in the gym so that he wasn't alone. As a result, Chihiro never saw the crime scene. Makoto asks Chihiro about the numbers 11037, which Sayaka had seemingly written on the bathroom wall, but Chihiro explained that it isn't a programming term. When Leon was later executed after the class trial, Chihiro thought that he and the other students were no better than Leon, since they indirectly murdered Leon by voting him as the culprit.

Boy's Life of 
When Byakuya Togami was found in the library after his sudden disappearance, he began to bully Chihiro, causing Mondo to interject that it was unfair to bully the weak. Although well-intentioned, Mondo's statement greatly demoralized Chihiro.

The next morning, the students gathered in the Cafeteria. Chihiro, still feeling down due to the events that transpired the day before, began crying after Mondo's argument with Kiyotaka Ishimaru. Taken aback by Chihiro's reaction, Mondo immediately regretted his action and gave him "a man's promise" to protect him from any danger. This touched Chihiro's heart so much that it inspired him to take action and become stronger, in order not to become a burden on the others.

In order to become stronger, Chihiro said he would start working out. Sakura Ogami and Aoi asked him to go to the gym room to work out together. However, Chihiro declined their invitation in fear of having his secret revealed. He also brought the broken laptop that the group found in the library with him.

Chihiro's 
Fujisaki reading the letter HQMonokuma introduced his second motive, a set of envelopes containing each student's most embarrassing secrets. Chihiro's envelope contained the note "Even though he is a boy, Chihiro Fujisaki dresses as a girl". However, instead of feeling scared, he became even more determined to change and become stronger so that he could tell his secret. He concluded that he should share his secret with Mondo, whom Chihiro admired, by inviting him to go work out together at the gym. Danganronpa 1 CG - Celestia Ludenberg seeing Chihiro Fujisaki in the supply roomThat night, Chihiro went to the storage room, attempting to search for a jersey that he needed to wear for his first workout session. He was intercepted by Celestia Ludenberg, who happened to pass near the storage room. Startled by Celestia's sudden appearance, Chihiro quickly took off without mentioning where he intended to go off to.

Chihiro Class TrialChihiro met up with Mondo in the boy's changing room and revealed his secret to him. As Mondo was still feeling pressured by Monokuma's threat, the sudden revelation caused Mondo to be overcome by jealousy toward Chihiro; Mondo felt that by choosing not to run away from this problem and to actively trying to make his life better, Chihiro was stronger in character than himself, whereas Mondo felt hopelessly overwhelmed by survivor's guilt and intense, irrational feelings of weakness.
Ultimately, that intense jealousy turned into murderous anger, and Mondo hit Chihiro in the head with a dumbbell, killing him.

Mondo realized he had to move Chihiro out of the boys' locker room in order to guard Chihiro's secret, and so carried his body into the girl's locker room, which he opened using Sayaka's discarded e-Handbook. He then swapped the contents of the locker rooms so that it appeared Chihiro had been murdered in the girl's locker room. He then broke Chihiro's e-Handbook by throwing it into the sauna, so that if another student turned it on it wouldn't reveal Chihiro's true gender.

Danganronpa 1 Chapter 2 Body Discovery (English)
Danganronpa 1 Chapter 2 Body Discovery (English)

Unbeknownst to him, Byakuya Togami witnessed Mondo's exit from the girls' locker room. Wanting to "make the case more interesting", he tampered with the crime scene by hanging Chihiro in a crucifix position with the extension cord from the library's desk lamp, and writing "Bloodlust" on the wall using Chihiro's blood, emulating the M.O. of serial killer Genocide Jack. Despite both Byakuya and Mondo's tampering with the crime scene, Kyoko uncovered Chihiro's secret during her investigation of the crime scene, and the class revealed Mondo's murder during the class trial, leading to Mondo being executed.
Alter 
Alter Ego introducing himself ep 6After his death, Chihiro's classmates discovered that Chihiro had developed an artificial intelligence program named Alter Ego in an attempt to decrypt files about Hope's Peak Academy. Alter Ego used Chihiro as an avatar, using both Chihiro's likeness and voice, and was housed in a laptop taken from the Hope's Peak library. Chihiro hid the laptop in the bathhouse, which was one of the few areas in the school with no security cameras. The students became close to Alter Ego, particularly Makoto, who was strongly endeared by the fact it so strongly resembled their friend who had just died. That AI was the reason that Makoto survived his execution in Chapter 5, and the remaining students were able to later escape the academy.
Post-Killing School 
Chihiro's 
Main article: Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls
Taichi's DiaryChihiro's father, Taichi Fujisaki, was captured by the Ultimate Despair as part of Monokuma's first motive during Chihiro's Killing School Life. Taichi was later freed, only to become one of the people targeted by the Warriors of Hope. After becoming a target, he went into hiding. Taichi was found by Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa in Towa Tower, and he helped them hack the elevator system. After being attacked by a Beast Monokuma and becoming heavily injured, Taichi told Komaru and Toko that he had a child around their age and that his last regret is that he couldn't see that child again. Taichi died from his injuries, and afterward, Komaru found Taichi's diary near his body, which contained a photo of Taichi and Chihiro. Later in the game, if the player returns to the spot where Taichi appeared to die, his body is not there - unlike other characters, whose body remains where it fell. Where his body was is a note, which reads:
"What in the world is going on? There's not enough information out there to know for sure. But I know one thing: I have to make it out of this town. Until I know for sure that my wife and child are safe, I can't die. As a husband, as a father... I haven't done my job yet. If I die here, I can't give my wife and beautiful child the life they deserve."
Makoto's 
Main Article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc #11.
Oowada and Fujisaki's deathChihiro is seen alongside his deceased classmates in Makoto's hallucination. His body is seen suspended above the ground, with blood dripping down his legs when all of the deceased members of the 78th class morph into how they looked when they died.
Creation and 
Beta Chihiro DesignChihiro Fujisaki Beta Designs Visual Fanbook Chihiro's basic design did not undo a drastic change between DISTRUST and Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc, although most examples of the in-development art of Chihiro feature a more unisex bowl haircut, including the version shown in in-developmental DISTRUST artwork. More feminine haircuts were also trialed, including a version with ribboned pigtails. His uniform originally resembled a Little Lord Fauntleroy-style outfit - black buttoned jacket, black pants, large white collar and a cape. According to Kodaka, Chihiro was initially two characters, a "shota character" and a "lolita character" ("ショタキャラとロリキャラ"), however, the two characters were merged into Chihiro.
Befitting his talent's relation to numbers, Chihiro's birthday (March 14), when written in digits as 3.14, matches the first three digits of the mathematical constant pi (π) and is known as Pi Day. He shares his birthday with Chiaki. The two also have similar names in regards to meaning (both of them have numerals in both their first and last names, with the numerals in their first names both being 千 chi - meaning "thousand").


"Chihiro" (千尋) translates to "One Thousand Questions". "Fujisaki" (不二咲) means "Two Unblooming (Flowers)". Chihiro's last name may have been inspired by Nagihiko/Nadeshiko Fujisaki from the series Shugo Chara!, who, like Chihiro, is also biologically male yet chooses to present themselves as female.

Alternate 
Sonia-Nevermind-Pixel-for-Jpn-Template	The section below is based on non-localized content only available in Japanese.
As such, this information is based on fan-contributed translation.

In the Danganronpa Visual Fanbook, there is a description of executions for all of the characters who did not have one. Chihiro's execution is called Super Fujisaki Bros. (a reference to Super Mario Bros.) and described as the following:

"Fujisaki is put inside an 8-bit side-scrolling game. A group of huge pixelated Monokumas would appear behind him as he tries to run. Eventually, they would catch up to him, causing Fujisaki's sprite to pop out of existence."
The Danganronpa 3 box set included a feature detailing an alternate ending of Danganronpa called Danganronpa Another End which ultimately never made it out of the development phase. In this ending, all of the students escape, at the cost of giving up their talent forever. In Chihiro's ending, he explains that giving up his talent is a good opportunity because it means he can train his heart and body so he can become stronger, and expresses that he'd like to meet with his classmates again someday, but as his "real self".

Chihiro also escapes Hope's Peak alive before the Killing Game begins, with the rest of his classmates, in the novel Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc IF. In this alternate timeline, Chihiro created the program and software that was used to make Monokuma.


Danganronpa 1 Character Design Profile Chihiro 
Chihiro has a small, lithe stature and doll-like appearance with short, light brown, layered hair and hazel colored eyes. He wears a girls' winter school uniform set, featuring a long-sleeved dark green jacket, a white shirt with a large Peter Pan collar secured with a thin dark ribbon, suspenders, a box-pleated brown mid-thigh length brown skirt, knee-high black socks, and white, ribboned mary janes. The logo of his school, St. Elbandia Academy, is featured on his buttons and the sides of his socks.


Chihiro is very intelligent, but he also has a very meek and timid personality. He is very shy and apologizes a lot - it's easy to intimidate him to the point of tears. However, he also loves to talk about anything related to his work as a programmer and he becomes more lively whenever the topic is brought up.

Chihiro is one of the kindest and softest characters in Danganronpa, as he literally wouldn't hurt a mosquito because it's "hungry and might have a family". After Leon Kuwata's execution, he felt guilt-ridden, even though it wasn't his fault. When he was attempting to reason with Byakuya Togami in Chapter 2, he revealed a deep disdain for disputes occurring between friends.

Unfortunately, Chihiro also had a deep-rooted complex over being looked down on by others as being "weak". This happened as a result of memories and experiences from his childhood where he was frequently bullied and told to act tougher due to him being rather frail for a boy. To make the bullying stop, he started disguising himself as a girl to avoid the pressure of having to become stronger. However, this only made his insecurities even worse. Though he tried to hide it, he gets uncomfortable when others treated him as a girl, and he would rather spend time with other boys instead of girls. He greatly admired men who are physically strong and he wished he could be like them, turning down the suggestion of Sakura Ogami training him in the school mode since as a boy he specifically wished to have a strong boy as his role model. In the official artbook, it's also mentioned that he wishes to be strong so that he can protect others.

When Monokuma threatened to reveal everyone's secrets, including Chihiro's real gender, Kiyotaka Ishimaru came up with the idea that everyone should share the secret right away. Naturally, most of them declined the request. However, Chihiro was one of the very few who planned to reveal his secret out of his own will. Instead of falling into despair, he became very determined to overcome his weakness and planned to become stronger so he could be his true self. Sadly, he didn't realize that he was already showing a significant amount of strength, due to his determination and will to confront his own core insecurities.

In school mode, Chihiro states that he enjoys reading and baking, but is afraid of earthquakes, big crowds and singing in front of other people. He really likes rabbits and hamsters and would like to have a one as a pet.

Talent and 
Ultimate 
Danganronpa 1 Chihiro Fujisaki English Game IntroductionWhen Chihiro was a child, he was too weak to play outside with his friends, causing him to begin playing on the computer to make the time pass. His father, Taichi Fujisaki, was a software engineer that developed many major computer programs, and one day, Chihiro found an incomplete information retrieval system on his father's computer that utilized voice input. This led to him creating his own modifications to it, and he soon realized that he could write programs by himself.
Chihiro's father praised him for his work and, as he finally found something he could take pride in, he became absorbed in programming. He really wanted to help and be useful, but he thought he was useless without a computer. Chihiro's outstanding programming skills would later serve him in contributing to the creation of the Neo World Program.

In other 
Chihiro's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

Ultimate Programmer
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「プログラマー」	Super High School Level Programmer
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"程式設計師"	Super High School Level Programmer
中文超高校级的"程式设计师"	Super High School Level Programmer(DRtA)
Français Le Programmeur Ultime	Ultimate Programmer (DRV3)
DeutschSuper-Programmiererin	Super Programmer (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Programmatrice Liceale	Super High School Level Programmer(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Programadora	Super High School Student Level: Programmer (DRtA)

Chihiro was an expert at programming extremely sophisticated artificial intelligence programs.


Alter Ego

Main article: Alter Ego
Alter Ego is an artificial intelligence coded by Chihiro and housed in a laptop which Chihiro took from the Hope's Peak Academy library and hid in the un-monitored Hope's Peak bath-house locker room. Chihiro modeled the artificial intelligence in his own image and using his own voice. Alter Ego can have full conversations and ask and answer complex questions and is designed to learn new information from everyone they speak to. Alter Ego can change their appearance to resemble other people, including their voice, as long as they have enough data on that person. Alter Ego turning themselves into Mondo, who had recently died, left a lasting impression on Kiyotaka, and brought him out of his catatonic depressive state. Because Alter Ego has Chihiro's sweet and kind personality, Chihiro's classmates are endeared to them, with Hifumi falling in love with them, with Makoto treating them as an extension of Chihiro and calling them "his friend". With Makoto's help, Alter Ego uploads a virus into the school's computer network, which later interferes with Makoto's execution, and leads to the remaining students being able to escape.

Alter Ego also appears in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, now working for the Future Foundation. They exist inside the Neo World Program, working as its Master Program and Overseer. They are also capable of communicating with the outside world. After a virus invaded the Neo World Program, Alter Ego tried to fight it as much as they could.

Chiaki Nanami

Main article: Chiaki Nanami (Danganronpa 2)
Chiaki was an AI created by Alter Ego using his programming and memories of the real Chiaki.
Usami

Main article: Usami

Neo World Program

Main article: Neo World Program (Danganronpa 2)
Chihiro was one of the creators of the Neo World Program, along with Miaya Gekkogahara and Yasuke Matsuda.

Family:
Taichi 
Taichi is Chihiro's father and a gifted software engineer whose work inspired Chihiro to build his own A.I.s. The two had a close relationship, appearing smiling and happy in the photo that Komaru and Toko find in his diary. Taichi become's Chihiro's captive for Monokuma's first motive during the Killing School Life, in which the captives were all the student's most important loved ones. Taichi's final words to them before he appears to die are that his last regret is that he will never see his "beautiful child" Chihiro again. In a non-canon Danganronpa V3's Ultimate Talent Development Plan event with Hiyoko Saionji, Chihiro tells Hiyoko that he received a Christmas present from his father, and was embarrassed that it was brought directly to the school. Hiyoko scolds Chihiro, feeling jealous of Chihiro's close relationship with his father, and tells him to go accept the gift or throw it away. Chihiro agrees to accept it and says he will go and thank his father properly.

Class 78th:
Mondo 
Chihiro admired Mondo, thinking that he had a lot of strength, although he hadn't realized the emotional strain Mondo was under because of Monokuma's intention of revealing everyone's secret. Before then, Chihiro and Mondo had a good relationship with each other. Mondo defended Chihiro from Byakuya Togami, showing his dislike for bullying weak people. Soon after, Mondo showed another side of himself when he accidentally yelled at Chihiro, causing him to cry. Mondo immediately apologized and promised to never yell again, and swore by his honor as a man. Thanks to this, he was able to cheer Chihiro up.

Once Chihiro revealed his secret to Mondo, and that he wanted to change, jealousy of Chihiro's emotional strength made Mondo snap and killed him with a dumbbell in the boy's changing room. After realizing what he had done, Mondo attempted to keep Chihiro's secret for as long as possible by switching the crime scene and destroying his e-Handbook in the sauna. Mondo had immense guilt for killing Chihiro and felt that he had to atone for what he had done.

Shortly after Chihiro and Mondo's deaths, the remaining survivors found a picture of the two smiling and hugging each other along with Leon. This could mean that Chihiro and Mondo were friends in high school before the killing game. This is further reinforced in Danganronpa 3 when Chihiro is shown working with Mondo to help seal up the school.

In the non-canon Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Chihiro told Mondo about his real gender rather early on and Mondo appeared to take it well. The two trained together, with Mondo considering it "a promise between men". For a long time, Mondo was the only one who knew Chihiro's secret, as Chihiro told the other students about it around the time his school years ended.

Makoto 
Chihiro was good friends with Makoto and stated that talking to him made him feel better. Makoto, in turn, told Chihiro to become stronger and to feel better about himself. A reason why Chihiro chose Mondo as his "trainer" is that, in one of his Free Time Events, Makoto is the one who recommended that Chihiro train with Mondo to become stronger. Despite their closeness, Chihiro never told Makoto that he was a boy in the actual story. However, he does so in his ending in School Mode.

In the Danganronpa V3 Bonus Mode, during a Sports Festival Event, Makoto seeks out Chihiro to team up for a three-legged race because they are close in height. After finding and asking to team up, Makoto reassures a worried Chihiro that he is the only one he can count on to race.

Creations:
Alter 
Chihiro created Alter Ego from the old laptop found in the Hope's Peak library. Alter Ego holds the highest respect for Chihiro, referring to him as "Master". Chihiro hid Alter Ego in the bath-house locker room in hopes that it would help the other students escape from the school, a role that Alter Ego indirectly accomplished by preventing Makoto's execution. In a Danganronpa V3 bonus mode event, Chihiro notes that talking to Alter Ego is like talking to himself but acknowledges that Alter Ego is another entity entirely.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Chihiro Fujisaki & School Mode/Chihiro Fujisaki
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Chihiro in order to learn more about him. If he gives Chihiro a present that he likes and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Chihiro will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Chihiro's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles or an increase in Skill Points.

12345Dead
Chihiro Fujisaki Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Voice Recognition	Touchscreen	Telekinesis
Robotics	Artificial Intelligence	Virtual reality
Sakura	Byakuya	Mondo
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 21 Blueberry Perfume DR1 Present 42 Kirlian Camera DR1 Present 45 Unending Dandelion DR1 Present 70 Tips and Tips

Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him in Class Trials. Becoming close to Chihiro grants the following skills:

Algorithm	Increases the speed of memorizing a statement. Effective during the Nonstop Debate.	2 SP
Cheat Code	The time limit doesn't decrease, even if you shoot a statement with the silence. Effective during the Nonstop Debate.	2 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Chihiro FujisakiMakoto is able to see inside Chihiro's dorm room during Free Time events. The most prominent item in Chihiro's room is a large bank of computer monitors and an office chair. Chihiro has a telescope and several photographs of space. He has a DSLR camera, tripod, and camera case. On his bed are some grippers, reflecting Chihiro's drive to become strong.

DR1Extra
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"Hello, nice to meet you. I'm Chihiro Fujisaki... Sorry, I get kinda embarrassed whenever I introduce myself like this... Anyway, I hope we can get along..."
Chapter 1:

"There wasn't any hope of escape anywhere..."
"A weaponized toy that can just appear from nowhere... I can't tell if we're supposed to be afraid or not." (About Monokuma)
"Yeah, you're right. We all need to calm down..."
"Everyone's really upset... I mean, how could anyone be calm right now? Why...? How can something like that even exist? I just don't understand. I don't..."
Chapter 2:

"I don't want to live...if it means killing someone else to do it. I don't want to kill anyone else...! Leon died because we all voted for him, right? It's no different from us killing him ourselves!"
"Maybe I'll give it a try. I'd kind of like to get a little stronger..."
"Kyoko's so amazing... She's so cool. She's smart, and she seems really tough..."
"This...isn't a game. Our lives are on the line, you know... To kill your own friends is...is... It's horrific!" (to Byakuya)
"I...I hate how weak I am."
"But...I still don't like how I am right now. I have to get stronger... If I'm so weak anything can make me cry...that's not good."
"No...I *want* to get stronger. Maybe I should...start working out..."
"Um...s-sorry, I don't really want to talk about it right now. But I also don't want to leave things the way they are. So maybe I can talk about it later... After I try my best...to become strong... Then I can tell everyone."
"I'm...weak... Weak, weak, weak, weak, weak, weak, weak, weak...!"
"Now's my chance... I'm going to get stronger...and accept who I am... Strong enough so that when someone says "even though you're a boy" I'll be okay. I'll get better! Maybe talking to Mondo about it will help give me some courage..."
"...I want to change. I wrapped myself in lies. I'm weak. I want to destroy that version of me forever! I have to change. I don't want to be weak anymore. You're so strong, it can't hurt you, right? Whatever secret Monokuma might tell us..."
"N-No, I just...really admire you. I admire...your strength..."
List of 
GamesAnimeLight NovelsMangaStage Plays
DISTRUST (Scrapped)
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls (Mentioned)
Danganronpa: Unlimited Battle

Chihiro's introduction to Makoto at the beginning of Danganronpa has him ask if he and Makoto had met before. This is the first subtle hint of the students' memory loss at the hands of Ultimate Despair.
Chihiro is the only character whose "memorial" portrait was changed for the animated adaptation of Danganronpa; instead of his default sprite, it shows an image of him facing the "camera" and smiling.
Chihiro's former high school, St. Elbandia Academy, is a reference to another Spike Chunsoft game, Elvandia Story.
His English voice actress also voices Sayaka Maizono and Tsumugi Shirogane in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.
His Japanese voice actor also voices Taichi Fujisaki, Chihiro's father.
In the School Mode, he makes a reference to Usami and Four Dark Devas of Destruction, as he mentions wanting to have a hamster or a rabbit and wonders if there are any in the school. This appears to be further referenced in an official art.
Because Alter Ego uses Chihiro as an avatar, Chihiro and Alter Ego share voice actors in both the Japanese (Kōki Miyata) and English (Dorothy Elias-Fahn) versions of the game.
In a series of tweets from Kazutaka Kodaka during Valentine's Day of February 2013, he tweeted "in-character" as several of the Danganronpa cast, including Chihiro.The tweet translates into this:
"Th-This is kind of weird, isn’t it? …Huh? You’ll take it? Hooray, you just made my day. Ehehe."

Presumably as a young child, Hifumi described himself as a "mild-mannered boy who liked to draw" and "without a single friend". He apparently did not believe when people, mostly women, were genuinely kind to him. So much so he would yell at them to leave whenever they attempted to talk to him and enjoyed doing so.

Buuko transparentAt an unknown part in his early life Hifumi watched an episode of the anime Demon Angel☆Pretty Pudgy Princess starring Princess Piggles. He didn't care at the time, saying it was just another "magical girl anime", but later he claimed Piggles came to him in a dream and that he fell in love with her when on a date. He then began to purchase all the Piggles merchandise he could find and to draw nothing but her since he couldn't show his love any other way. This lead to Hifumi creating a personal website displaying his artwork of Piggles, later convincing his middle school (through bribery of his profits from his sales) to let him create a fanfic club.

He was later allowed to sell his fanfic work at a school festival (presumably high school), which many of the other students thought would ruin it or "taint it". Hifumi stated proudly he was able to prove them wrong, and boasted to have sold over ten thousand copies of one of his fan comics during it.

Hifumi mentioned he enjoyed frequenting conventions, and even having a booth to sell art in at them, as well at participating in "fanfic circles" with other authors and participating in "free-for-alls" that are specifically centered around Princess Piggles. He also shared his artistic interests with his older sister, Fujiko Yamada.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Class Photo of Celestia, Hifumi, and SayakaHe attended Marufuji High School, and was later scouted to attend Hope's Peak Academy under the title Ultimate Fanfic Creator. Based on photos seen by Makoto Naegi, he seemed to of had a more teasing and friendly in nature relationship with Celestia Ludenberg and his other classmates.
The 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc #11
Hifumi and Sakura seal the windowsDuring The Tragedy, Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. The students of Class 78th agreed to his plan, and they sealed the building together. Hifumi helped Sakura Ogami in sheltering the windows and was stunned that she only used her bare hands to lock the windows. The students lived peacefully inside the school building for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.
Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa 1 CG - Students at the School EntranceHifumi was among those who were chosen to attend Hope's Peak Academy as part of Class 78th. Class 78th ended up being trapped inside the school, not knowing at the time that they had already been memory-wiped of their two years of school life together. Hifumi was around 19 years old, though he believed he was only 17 because of the memory loss.
When Makoto arrived to entrance area where the other students are, Hifumi declared there are 15 students in total, and it was strange the way they all had fallen asleep. When Makoto introduced himself, Hifumi asked Makoto how much he knows about "the world of 2D art". Upon Makoto's confusion, Hifumi then boasted about his talent, and his title as the Ultimate Fanfic Creator, and how others react to his work. He told Makoto about how he has sold over ten thousand of his fan comic works at a school festival, and followed up with a suggestive comment, prompting Makoto to end the conversation and leave.

Later, during the first investigation, Hifumi is revealed to be the weekly volunteer janitor (heavily implied he volunteered because he wanted to go through girls' trash) and is the only one with the key to the trash room. He is asked by Makoto to open the shutters so he could investigate the currently "on" incinerator. They both discovered a bloody, burnt shirt piece and the shattered remains of a crystal ball.

Danganronpa the Animation (Episode 04) - Male Bonding (051)During the Daily Life before the second murder, Hifumi had an incident with Celestia Ludenberg. She had ordered him to prepare her favorite kind of tea, royal milk tea, and he did so without question. After she calmly drinks it, she in a sudden rage smashed the cup and yells in anger at him for failing to prepare it to her liking, which caused Hifumi to cower in fear. Despite the cruel nature of event, Hifumi still ended up becoming a "servant" of hers, which later proved a catalyst to his fate.
Alter Ego's 
ALTER EGO FIRST MEETING THE GANGFollowing second trial and the concluding execution, the remaining students, including Hifumi, discovered the artificial intelligence created and left behind by Chihiro Fujisaki- Alter Ego.

He quickly developed intense romantic feelings for Alter Ego, the reason being Hifumi describing that Alter Ego is the first "girl" who he as felt comfortable around because "she" listens to him; despite the fact that was debunked by Kyoko Kirigiri stating the artificial intelligence just wanted nothing else but information to grow from him.

Yamada arguing with IshimaruThis one-sided relationship quickly led to a rivalry between himself and Kiyotaka Ishimaru over Alter Ego's attention, with the latter wanting the artificial intelligence as they are able to impersonate his "bro", Mondo Owada.

Becoming an 
Danganronpa 1 Hifumi becoming Celestias AccompliceDuring the Killing School Life, Hifumi developed a subservient relationship with Celestia, calling her "Mistress" and following her every whim despite her treating him with great disdain. Celestia saw an opportunity to use this relationship to her advantage, telling Hifumi on the dead of night that Kiyotaka had sexually assaulted her, had stolen Alter Ego, and that he was planning to kill Hifumi. In the end, he wholly believed her lie, thus agreeing to become her accomplice.
Celestia outlined her plan to Hifumi: both of them need to murder separate people, while having the other help cover up the killing. She ordered Hifumi to create a "disguise", something to cover up a "suspicious person" for a fake kidnapping and to frame someone, specifically Yasuhiro Hagakure. This resulted in Hifumi creating the Robo Justice suit made out of cardboard and the four "Justice Hammers" out of painted mallets from the Art Room.

Their plot is put into motion when Hifumi used chloroform on Yasuhiro in order to stuff him in the Robo Justice suit, and Celestia and Hifumi take a photograph of Robo Justice kidnapping Hifumi. Hifumi then headed to the Art Room to murder Kiyotaka with a blow to the head with Justice Hammer 4 after Kiyotaka is lured there from a fake message written by Celestia.

Danganronpa 1 Chapter 3 Body Discovery (Fake)
Danganronpa 1 Chapter 3 Body Discovery (Fake)

Hifumi and Celestia then both faked being attacked by Robo Justice with Justice Hammer 1 (in the Rec Room) and Justice Hammer 2 (in the Library). Shortly after, Hifumi faked another attack Justice Hammer 3 in the Nurse's Office, which resulted in his "death". He was able to fake his death by covering himself in transfusion blood from the Nurse's office and laying on the floor.
A previously planned scream from Celestia signaled Hifumi to begin sneaking out of the Nurse's Office to move Kiyotaka's body to the Art Room with a dolly. However, Hifumi had cleaned the blood from his glasses with a Princess Piggles cleaning cloth, proving he was never really dead, which became a piece of key evidence later in the trial.

Hifumi's 
Danganronpa 1 CG - Aoi Asahina cradling a dying Hifumi Yamada (6)After moving Kiyotaka's body for Celestia and rendezvousing with her in the Art Room, Hifumi curiously asked who Celestia is going to kill, moments before she bludgeons him in the head with Justice Hammer 4. She left him, presuming he had been killed, to join the others. Hifumi did not die immediately and he lived long enough to be discovered by his classmates. The blow to the head undid the effect of the memory-wipe, and so in his final moments he rambled about their previous lives together and murmured the name "Yasuhiro" before dying in Aoi Asahina's arms.
Post-Killing School 
Makoto's 
Main Article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc #11.
Celes, Oogami, and Yamada's deathHifumi is seen alongside his deceased classmates in Makoto's hallucination. He is first standing next to Kyoko Kirigiri, which then morphs into him on the ground, presumably bleeding, reflecting how he, along with the other deceased members of the 78th Class, had died.

Creation and 

"Hifumi" (一二三) are numeral kanji which, when put into sequence as they are above, literally mean "one, two, three". The kanji for "Yamada" (山田) translates into "mountain rice paddy".

Alternate 
Sonia-Nevermind-Pixel-for-Jpn-Template	The section below is based on non-localized content only available in Japanese.
As such, this information is based on fan-contributed translation.

In the Danganronpa Visual Fanbook, there is a description of executions for all of the characters who did not have one. Hifumi's execution is called Watch Out, Princess Buuko! Great Monster Invasion!! (Buuko being the Japanese name for Princess Piggles) and described as the following:

"A gigantic Princess Buuko comes flying to a place where an enormous Monokuma is rioting at. Both start fighting. Yamada, who is stuck between them is being hit from both sides. At the end, he dies when being hit by 'Certain Kill' beams from both simultaneously."
However unlike the other unused executions, Hifumi's is seen "completely" in the manga adaption of the Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc "Trial Version", where he is correctly voted guilty for murdering Yasuhiro Hagakure and executed.
The Danganronpa 3 box set included a feature detailing an alternate ending of Danganronpa called Danganronpa Another End which ultimately never made it out of the development phase. In this ending, all of the students escape, at the cost of giving up their talent forever. In Hifumi's ending, he claims he will become a thief, and with "free use" of his magic he will use it to steal gems.

Hifumi also escapes Hope's Peak alive before the Killing Game begins, with the rest of his classmates, in the novel Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc IF.


Hifumi is an overweight young man with black hair and a short pointed ahoge. He wears a pair of black, thick-rimmed glasses. He is dressed in a white button-down shirt, an orange tie which has a patterned double-headed blue arrow upon it, with the smaller arrowhead pointing upwards and the larger arrowhead pointing downwards to the tip of the tie, a pair of dark gray trousers, and white trainers. Over his shirt is a light grey, unbuttoned cardigan and on his back is an orange backpack. DR1 Present 105 Hifumi's UndergarmentsHe wears not-for-sale underwear based on Robo Justice.

Hifumi has a verbose manner of speaking, often going on long-winded tangents about his interests such as anime or fanfiction. He also has a tendency to casually make creepy or perverted comments in the middle of conversations, especially about or to women.

Hifumi is extremely passionate about anime and fanfiction, and has little tolerance for anyone he feels has a poor or neutral opinion about them. He is passionate enough about them, that he says his dream to create a story so powerful it'll inspire others to create their own stories as well.

He refers to others in a very formal manner, calling them "Ms." or "Mr." Last Name, for example he calls Makoto "Mr. Naegi". In the original Japanese game, he uses the honorific suffix -dono as well as their full name, for example "Naegi Makoto-dono". This proves to be a key piece of evidence later during the trial for his murder as he mutters "Yasuhiro", Celestia's real last name as opposed to it being Yasuhiro Hagakure's first name.

Although having a somewhat misanthropic look on society, Hifumi will not stand for indecent crimes against those he holds in deep regard, and even went so far as to kill Kiyotaka to avenge the harm he believed he had done to Celestia.

Hifumi seems to have an addiction to Diet Coke, and can get to the point of hallucinations if he goes too long without having it, and becoming nearly violent.


Talents and 
Ultimate Fanfic 
Danganronpa 1 Hifumi Yamada English Game IntroductionHifumi has cited that the personal website he made for his Princess Piggles art work in middle school is what launched him into fanfiction. After that he drew nothing but Piggles art in a style he self-describes as a "total meta sci-fi approach", eventually accumulating to him selling over ten thousand copies of one of his fan comics at a festival held by his school. Something he also describes as being "a legend".
In School Mode he says he does all of the work for his fanfiction, from concept to the ink of printing of it. He also talks about the events he does with other fanfic creators, such as "fanfic circles" (Dōjin Circles in Japanese) and "free-for-alls", implying he's popular enough to be invited to those.

Also in School Mode, specifically his Trigger Happy Heart event, he says his talent was given to him "by the gods", and thinks very highly of his skills and talent because of it.

In other 
Hifumi's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

Ultimate Fanfic Creator
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「同人作家」	Super High School Level Dōjin Author
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"同人作家"	Super High School Level Dōjin Author
中文超高校级的"同人作家"	Super High School Level Dōjin Author(DRtA)
DeutschSuper-Fanzine-Künstler	Super-Fanzine-Artist (DRtA)
Français Le Fanboy Ultime	Ultimate Fanboy (DRV3)
ItalianoSuper Autore di Dojinshi Liceale	Super High School Level Dōjin Author(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Director de Cine	Super High School Student Level: Cinema Director (DRtA)
Costume 
Hifumi has shown he has immense costume creation skills, being able to create overnight, from cardboard, a functional and very detailed wearable costume of Robo Justice that was able to fit Yasuhiro Hagakure perfectly.

Differences Between 
In Japanese, Hifumi's talent is Super High School Level Dōjin Author (超高校級の「同人作家」). Dōjin (同人) is closest to the English word "fandom", meaning a group of people sharing a common hobby or interest. In Japan, dōjin typically refers to self-published fan-works, usually derivative of a popular franchise such as an anime or video game. Dōjin creators may publish works such as fan-made manga, fan games, music, artworks or figurines, and sell them either online or at specialty conventions such as Comiket. Hifumi is a dōjinshi, a creator of dōjin manga, who participates in events with different dōjin circles (サークル) - groups of other dōjinshi who work together on a project.

In English, Hifumi's talent is Ultimate Fanfic Creator, with "fanfic" being short for "fan fiction" which are stories written by fans derived from various medias such as movies or TV shows. It should be noted that dōjin typically carries more prestige than fanfic, as fanfic is very underground, whereas dōjin is celebrated at large-scale fan events like Comiket - a bi-annual, dōjin-exclusive market convention which is the largest comic convention in the world - where attendance numbers are quadruple that of even the largest western fan conventions such as San Diego Comic Con. Fanfiction producers also rarely profit from their work due to fears of litigation towards creators, versus dōjinshi who are able to sell their works and can gain fans and fame within the fan community much more easily.


Family:
Fujiko 
Not much is known about Hifumi's relationship with his older sister, however she became his "Captive" in the Monokuma's first motive, signifying she is the closest person to him. They both share a passion for writing and drawing, and even are both self-published creators with Hifumi having his Princess Piggles work and Fujiko with her 4-panel manga series Tara☆Spa! They both also seem to share the same perverted nature evident as Fujiko's Hit List entry states she enjoys drawing naked boys.

Class 78th:
Celestia 
Hifumi regards Celestia highly, even referring to her as "Mistress", and following every one of her orders. Despite the fact the first major seen interaction between the two resulted in Celestia smashing a cup of tea in anger and berating Hifumi harshly for preparing it incorrectly.

He seems to be extremely protective over Celestia (or just has a strong sense of justice) as shown after she lies to him about being assaulted by Kiyotaka Ishimaru, he is willing to kill Kiyotaka for such a thing.

In many pieces of official art, Celestia is shown to be sitting on top of Hifumi, literally using him as a chair, solidifying their relationship as him simply being used.

Shortly after Hifumi and Celestia's deaths, Makoto along with the remaining students discover a picture of Hifumi, Celestia, and Sayaka Maizono in Hope's Peak Academy before the Killing School Life and The Tragedy began. In the picture Celestia is angrily holding onto Hifumi for stealing her fake eyelashes as Sayaka laughs, however it doesn't seem to be any sort of threatening anger, and Hifumi seems more amused than afraid. This could indicate their previous relationship was a more friendly one, and not the cruel bullying one they have in the Killing School Life.

During Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, when Kokichi Oma lies to Celestia that Hifumi inflated himself and popped like a balloon, she barely reacts and only finds it inconvenient because he makes her tea. She knows Kokichi is just lying, but the situation likely reflects how little she truly cares about Hifumi.

Kiyotaka 
Kiyotaka and Hifumi had no notable relationship until the discovery of Alter Ego. Hifumi had developed romantic feelings for Alter Ego, and Kiyotaka learned that Alter Ego could impersonate "his bro" Mondo, the pair suddenly became bitter rivals for the AI's attention.

Kiyotaka, or as he was calling himself at the time Kiyondo Ishida, clashed with numerous times with Hifumi and the others, to the point Kyoko had to put in safety measures in order to prevent either of them from taking or talking to Alter Ego.

Because of the manipulation from Celestia Ludenberg, Hifumi was willing to believe Celestia's lie that Kiyotaka had sexually assaulted her, that Kiyotaka was the one who stole Alter Ego for himself, and even going as far as Kiyotaka plotting to kill Hifumi. This later resulted in Kiyotaka's murder at Hifumi's hands for the sake of revenge, indicating it was very likely Hifumi never saw Kiyotaka in a positive light.

Makoto 
During their introductions, Makoto is made very uncomfortable by Hifumi's innuendos, despite that however, Hifumi seems to view Makoto in a friendly way, even finding him worthy enough to ramble about his interests such as Princess Piggles or his fanfiction creations.

Their relationship is deepened in Hifumi's Free Time Events and in School Mode, going as far as to call Makoto his "true friend" and even getting him to agree to join him as his apprentice/historian at his studio after they escape the school.


Love Interests:
Princess 
Hifumi has a borderline obsessive love for Princess Piggles, even though she is a fictional anime character. He had a dream of going on a date with her, and that is how he fell in love with her. After that he wanted to draw her, which ended up being his launch into fanfic creation, and to buy all the Piggles merchandise he could find, which includes a costume and toy camera he apparently paid a lot for.

He also heavily implies he most likely creates inappropriate work with her in it as an expression of his love and affection.

Alter 
Hifumi develops romantic feelings for Alter Ego soon after their discovery post-Mondo's execution. He explains that he considers Alter Ego the first "girl", other than his mother, who he felt comfortable talking with. He claims "she" listens to whatever he has to say, without giving any sort of judgement or disgust, and sneaks in to talk to "her" even after he and his classmates are banned from doing so by Kyoko Kirigiri. Most of what he talks about to "her" is heavily implied to be perverted in nature.

His feelings for Alter Ego are so intense he is willing to kill for "her" after being manipulated by Celestia.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Hifumi Yamada & School Mode/Hifumi Yamada
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Hifumi in order to learn more about him. If he gives Hifumi a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Hifumi will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Hifumi's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

123456Dead
Hifumi Yamada Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Circle	Square	Menagerie
Special event	Free-for-all	Fan jam
Damage	Dharma	Demon
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 2 Cola Cola DR1 Present 6 Potato Chips DR1 Present 37 Demon Angel Princess Figure DR1 Present 45 Unending Dandelion DR1 Present 70 Tips and Tips

Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Hifumi grants the following skills:

Handiwork	Allows you to reload two bullets at once. Effective during Bullet Time Battle.	4 SP
Delusion	The Influence Gauge recovers during concentration and Fever Time. Effective during Nonstop Debate, Hangman's Gambit and Bullet Time Battle.	5 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Hifumi YamadaMakoto is able to see inside Hifumi's dorm room during Free Time events. The most prominent items in Hifumi's room are his large collection of Princess Piggles merchandise, which includes bedding, standees, and even a costume. There are several monster themed action figures and anime statues. On his table is a sketchbook, denoting his Ultimate talent and potato chips. He also seems to have several manga books stacked against his wall, possibly his own work, along with rolled up posters.

DR1ExtraNovel
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"I...am Hifumi Yamada. But if you want to call me by my nickname, "The Alpha and the Omega!" I don't mind."
"The words of such idiots mean nothing to me. I am like Van Gogh—utterly unappreciated in my time. I am a soldier, serving night and day to destroy all preconceptions about fan fiction. I'm sure if you were to observe my work, Mr. Naegi, you would comprehend its greatness immediately. For my work is filled with deepest meaning... It's about embracing our basest urges..."
"We were abducted out of nowhere and stuffed into this place meant to look like a school. And now we're supposed to start killing each other? This is... This is...this is just...! What IS this!?"
Chapter 1:

"Before you go asking someone else, it's only polite that *you* say what *you* saw first, don't you think? If I don't hear yours, I don't have to say mine! It's the art of see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil!"
"2-player co-op base defense with the two of them... With their stats, they're totally OP!"
"Consciousness has crashed. Restarting now. Please wait a moment..."
"I-I just decided to volunteer for something I knew no one else would wanna do. What's the big deal!?"
"What are you talking about!? All my love is for 2D! I would NEVER get tired of 2D! After spending a significant amount of time comparing 2D and 3D, I voluntarily chose 2D! The only 3D is good for is to shower love and affection on 2D!"
"What, so now you suddenly want to join my party? Sorry, but you haven't triggered that flag yet. I mean, you haven't helped me recover from a past trauma, or save a village, or beat a boss..."
"They say if you collect all seven, a dragon will appear and grant you a single wish!"
"Erm, kidding aside, it's the kind of thing you might see on any big-city street corner. Gaze into it, and it will show you a glimpse of the future... Just like that Meena girl who was on that quest to find that one guy!"
"If you need help lifting your spirits, call on me anytime! I've got all kinds of smut—er, stuff that might help cheer you up! Meh heh...mehehehe!"
"Trying to enter someone's room without their express permission is the highest breach of etiquette! Whether it's related to the case or not, you must respect a person's right to privacy!" (to Makoto)
"O-ho! Trying to argue against me? Sounds like awesome doesn't know someone doesn't know his place!"
"If you got an invitation like that from the Ultimate Pop Sensation, what young man could resist? Of course, I'm only into 2D so it wouldn't have any effect on me!"
"Hmm? I'm not sure whether to take that as an insult or a compliment!"
"Bwehehe! Our little grey cells are really getting excited now!"
"Um, so why are you putting an upstanding young citizen like me through such a grueling ordeal?"
Chapter 2:

"She's right. If you heap that kind of blame on yourself, you'll turn into a full-fledged masochist." (About voting Leon as the blackened)
"Say whatever you want about me, but never judge a book by its author! Now hear this! Appearances mean nothing at all! What you see before you is nothing more than the rind that contains the meaty pulp of my genius! My creations are what determine my meaning and value!"
"I emphatically decline! You're not my type at all! Hmhm... It's all about the law of casuality, basic instinct, act and react!"
"To bless this undeserving swine with such an honor...! I will serve you with all my heart and soul!"
"How is that funny? Can't you smile like a normal person once in a while? Like how the housewife on a classic TV show smiles at the end of an episode?"
"Well it's just human nature to wanna hear it when you say it's impossibble! C'mon, it'll be good for ya!"
"Forget more victims! If we mess this up, we're all dead meat!"
"Miss Fujisaki... I must admit, for being 3D, she was quite remarkable. Of course, just the idea of 3D makes me cringe..."
Chapter 3:

"Gh—! If she weren't here, my chances of survival would go up AT LEAST 10%!"
"I'm a fan of Charanbo, Pumpkinhead, and I especially admire anything that Saburo Ronppongi makes. Charanbo's ability to express the movement of muscles is exquisite, as seen in his Mama Cat series. Pumpkinhead is like a little sculptor fairy, representing this century's greatest quality! Saburo Ronppongi, meanwhile, is known for his Mecha Musume series, which led to a worldwide tour. Truly they can only be regarded as the Elite Four! Well the Elite Three just sounds stupid, now doesn't it!? Besides, that empty seat rightly belongs to...me! Hmhmhm. It begins... Today begins my reign as the legendary ruler of the next country!"
"They say that a goldfish will eat however much food you give it, even if it's about to burst. Miss Asahina's pretty much the same, it looks like."
"Oh man. If I had the "loves clueless girls" attribute, I would've fallen in love big-time just now! I'm so glad I don't have it..."
"If you wanna know more... ...just Google it, okay?!"
"Hmm, but you know... All this about "Master" and whatnot... Yes, yes... I...I believe I'm on fire..."
"Mr. Hagakure, please refrain from pointless whispering. We're deep in enemy territory here... Just up ahead is the bathhouse. And there awaits...a great dazzling passion!"
"What are you doing, Mr. Naegi!? There are no fantasies in there! If you need to calm down, try counting prime numbers..."
"I'm not sure how to put it, but... ...I always feel refreshed after a job well done! A 3D body isn't so bad in its nude state, I suppose."
"Fwehehe! Maybe you can't tell, but my soul is positively overflowing with strawberries today!"
"Whatever, let's just hurry up and eat! We don't have time to stand around flappin' our lips!"
"Shut up! She's not a mannequin! She's an ANGEL! And don't bother telling me angels exist! What we have can't be defined by your petty "words"!"
"I can't withdraw... Mr. Ishimaru... Since I have this opportunity, let me say this right now... Destiny has bound me and her together in the Gordian Knot of true love!"
"Well *I* punch at the speed of sound! And I don't have any harm air, so there's no drag!" (to Kiyotaka)
"Don't put me on the same level as that...that...virgin! I might catch his virginity!"
"Maybe he's like the mean guy who starts acting different or getting all flustered when things change!"
"I just want to see her smiling face again..."
"I swear I'll save her! Using the power of love...!"
"Where...am I? Cold...so cold... Is...winter coming? ...Huh? Ahh...that's right... I remember now... Hope's Peak... I remember...everything... Before...I'd met you...all... I'd met...you all... Ahh...the light... It's...reaching out...to me... Like...the tail...of a comet..."
"Who...killed me...? That's right... I remember...their name... Y...Yasu... ...hi...ro... ..."
List of 
GamesAnimeLight NovelsMangaStage Plays
DISTRUST (Scrapped)
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa: Unlimited Battle

In the background of Hifumi's illustration is a PS3 playing a cutscene of Escape from Bug Island, known in Japan as Necro-Nesia.
In School Mode, he admits that he enjoys singing karaoke of anime themes with his online friends whenever they meet.
Hifumi's Japanese voice actor, Kappei Yamaguchi, also voices Jin Kirigiri in the Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.
Hifumi's English voice actor, Lucien Dodge, also provides the voice for K1-B0.

Junko is a young woman who is around 19 years old at the time of the original Danganronpa (making her 17 years old in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc).
She has a tall, hourglass figure, light blue eyes, and long, thick, strawberry blonde hair tied in two pigtails. She has been shown to wear a variety of hair accessories over the series, but her signature accessories are a pair of hairclips seemingly patterned after Monokuma; the right clip is completely white with dot eyes and a neutral expression, while the left is black with a white muzzle, jagged red eyes, and a wicked smile.

Due to her constantly-shifting personalities, Junko's appearance shifts slightly with her mood. This can be as simple as a new accessory (such as the crown on her "Queen" persona's head), or a complete change in appearance (such as the simplified design of her "cute" personality).

In Danganronpa Zero, it's stated that she looks much more average without her make-up. It's also heavily implied that her natural hair and eye color is red, considering her mental state while assuming her alternative identity.

Outfits 
Junko has worn a wide variety of outfits over the course of the Danganronpa series.

Hope's Peak Academy 
Junko's usual outfit includes a black cardigan over a white dress shirt, with both left open to the third button to expose the top of her black-and-red bra. A long tie loosely dangles around her neck, its design alternating between pure white (Danganronpa 3) and white with a pattern of stylized black bear heads (Danganronpa). Junko also wears a red miniskirt and mid-sized black boots with platform heels and red laces. She has long (possibly fake) red nails, and wears a white bunny hair clip and a large red and white bow as hair accessories. This was the outfit Junko wore while attending Hope's Peak Academy, and Mukuro wore it while masquerading as her sister during the Killing School Life.

Hope's Peak Academy II/Ultimate Despair 
When she confronted the survivors of the Killing School Life, Junko modified her usual outfit to reflect her role as the leader of Ultimate Despair and the mastermind of the Tragedy. She added a red bow tie to the left side of her cardigan, her bunny hairclip and bow were replaced with Monokuma hair-clips, and her tie was equal parts black and white, with a red line in a circle resembling a prohibition sign in the middle of the tie, where the colors meet. Overall, this outfit seems to be based on the character of Monokuma; the red bow tie on the left side of Junko's cardigan resembling Monokuma's red left eye, while the circle on her necktie may represent Monokuma's prominent navel.

Hope's Peak Academy III 
In (chronologically) earlier installments of the series, such as Danganronpa Zero and Monaca Towa's flashbacks in Danganronpa Another Episode, Junko is seen in the third variation of her Hope's Peak Academy outfit. Her cardigan has been removed, and her dress shirt is buttoned up to hide her bra. Her red bowtie is pinned on the left side of her dress shirt, and her right pigtail is held by a black bunny clip with red eyes. She also wears a black miniskirt and a new tie that lacks the circled X and has a different balance of white and black; the collar and knot are white, while the rest is black. Junko's nails are still painted red, but they are much shorter than in her other outfits.

Alternate Personalities 
Junko changes her appearance slightly when she switches to some of her various personalities. Her "royal" personality dons a small gold and red crown, her "intellectual" personality wears glasses and styles her hair in a ponytail, her "depressed" personality sports a few multicolored mushrooms on top of her head, and her "cute" personality simplifies her entire appearance to appear more cartoonish, including smoother pigtails, large, bright eyes, and a small smile similar to Hifumi Yamada's.

In the second game, Junko's Monokuma hairclips sometimes change to mimic her current personality, such as crying when she becomes depressed or gaining fiery auras to their eyes when she becomes excited or dramatic.

Disguise 
When attacking Makoto during the events of the Killing School Life, Junko hid her identity with a black latex mask that covered her entire head (including, somehow, her voluminous hair), with large grey lenses for eyes and a wide smile for a mouth, both surrounded by gold trim. The image of Monokuma's red left eye was visible on the forehead of the mask, along with seams that ran along the forehead and between the eyes. The back of the mask was held together by crisscrossing red laces.

Junko paired her mask with a large white coat worn over what appeared to be a black bodysuit of some sort. Her hands were left exposed, but with unpainted nails, presumably a further attempt to conceal her identity.

Other 
When Mukuro returned to Japan in Despair Arc, Junko was wearing a long-sleeved leopard-print coat with fur trim around the collar and sleeve cuffs. She accentuated her look with a large brown belt cinched around her midriff, open-toed black pumps, red sunglasses with black oval frames, and black lace garters around her neck and right thigh.

The photograph Makoto received during Chapter 6 of Danganronpa showed Junko wearing what appeared to be a combination of her three Hope's Peak Academy outfits: the hair accessories of the first, the X-marked black-and-white tie and the red bowtie of the second, and the white cardigan and black skirt of the third. The photographs received by the other survivors show her wearing standard-issue Hope's Peak Academy clothing, such as the student uniform, gym clothes, and a school swimsuit.

As the Ultimate Fashionista, Junko has also worn many other outfits, most of which are briefly glimpsed on magazine covers early on in Danganronpa.

Personality 
As a young fashionista, Junko is described as simply "not fake", charismatic and eager to try new things. During her first appearances, she comes across slightly air-headed and hot-tempered. In the official art book, she is described as a person who "drips with dissatisfaction the moment she opens her mouth" and tends to be in trouble with her classmates. She is also mentioned to be a bit too talkative with an overly carefree attitude.

However, Junko's real personality, revealed at the conclusion of the Killing School Life, is notably different: very apathetic and easily bored to an unhealthy and abnormal degree. Because of this, her behavior and mannerisms tended to be extremely erratic and unstable by her own autonomous design; keeping up one "appearance" for too long bores her, which causes her to often switch between different personas. However, she is capable of maintaining one persona for extended periods of time when necessary, such as when she was overseeing the students through Monokuma. Junko's "moods" included (but were not limited to) her Monokuma persona, sickening cuteness, severe depression, clinical sophistication, boisterous vulgarity, eerie stoicism, and haughty superiority. She switched between "moods" regularly, often imitating other students' expressions, which made for a highly unsettling conversation with the survivors. While entering the Hope's Peak Academy as one of Class 78's students, she often talked as if narrating a story, writing down her thoughts in a notebook.

Above all, Junko was deeply obsessed with despair, having found despair to be the most (and possibly the only) enjoyable emotion for her, whether it be inflicting despair unto others, or suffering from despair wholeheartedly. This made her extremely dangerous, as she wished to make the whole world feel absolute despair. However, this also often proved to be her biggest weakness, as she gave her opponents a "fair" chance to defeat her in order to make their despair all the greater if they fail, and happily welcomed her own despair if her plans fail.

Both Junko herself and the game's creators have confirmed that she truly has no reason to do things she does other than despair itself, which makes her all the more dangerous and unable to reason with. In Danganronpa Zero, it's revealed that her love for despair developed at quite young age due to an unknown reason, and that her true talent is her near supernatural analytical skills. It's also shown that under her amnesiac state, Junko doesn't show a thirst for despair or particularly strong hatred of boredom, implying that her constant case of forgetfulness had spared her from embracing despair again. However, the return of her memories reverted her to her former ways. In Danganronpa 3, it's finally revealed that her talent is the reason why she is easily bored with the world (similar to Izuru Kamukura); her obsession with despair stems from her belief that it is completely unpredictable, and thus exciting.

As a mastermind and leader of Ultimate Despair, Junko was shown to be highly intelligent, cunning, somewhat impulsive, and extremely manipulative, violent and cruel without remorse. She was a highly toxic individual, being both physically and mentally abusive to everyone around her. She manipulated people into falling madly in love with her and used their weaknesses, their despair, against them. Things like hope, peace, and happiness disgusted her, but she sometimes gave hope to others, only to turn it into despair later. She often manipulated people into doing bad things instead of directly doing them herself, and then had a habit of blaming these manipulated people and claiming it wasn't her fault, as a part of proving her point that despair exists in everyone and that hope will naturally lose to that despair. While she is very skilled, Junko can also lie and cheat to further her own goals, even if it's hypocritical and goes against her beliefs. It should be noted that even though she claims despair is the great unknown, in the end the road of despair went exactly the way she had planned.

While very abusive and cruel even towards her loved ones, Junko is, in fact, capable of affection; however, this only fuels her depravity. Because hurting people close to her will cause her greater despair, she tends to deal with them in more personal ways; for instance, she personally killed her sister Mukuro and her love interest Yasuke, making them both believe she did not care about them at all during their last moments, and later treating their bodies in very disrespectful manner. In the Otomedia Winter issue 2016, Kazutaka Kodaka revealed that Junko genuinely loved all her classmates from Class 78th, which is why she deliberately made them survive The Tragedy and become targets for the killing game. The more she loves someone, the more she wants to treasure and revel in their despair, which is why she set up her classmates to experience despair by her own hand. She is also shown to have quite an unusual relationship with Izuru. The opposite of this is seen in the genuinely condescending way she acts towards her Remnants of Despair, feeling nothing for the Class 77th and only viewing them as her pawns, resulting in her brainwashing them all at once and having no interest to get to know them personally. Junko repeatedly refers to the Class 77th students as "chumps", even once through Kurokuma while talking about Nagito in Danganronpa Another Episode, showing how she really doesn't take them seriously.

Following the reveal of her analytical talent, it can be inferred (but not proven) that Junko's obsessions are ironically fueled by her great ability to read, predict and empathize with people around her. She most likely understands the consequences of her actions and the exact level of suffering her plans will inflict, but this only encourages her by filling her with despair over her own monstrous acts. As a result of this, Junko actually manages to escape classification as a true sociopath, since they are defined by a complete inability to form emotional connections with others.

According to Kodaka and Junko's voice actress, her personality in Despair Arc is a more natural version of her, closer to her true self and more neutral, before she started changing her personalities regularly. This seems to imply that her behavior in the first game is a result of decreasing mental health and deeper sinking into despair, explaining the more jaded and apathetic personality. This also implies that even the Tragedy was beginning to bore her, as the seemingly chaotic event went just like she planned.


Ultimate Fashionista 
Junko's initial talent and the one she is famous for. She is very popular among people and students in Hope's Peak Academy; even the Steering Committee guaranteed her talent. She often appeared in magazines as the cover model. She uses her Super High School Level Analytical Prowess talent to her advantage, as she can predict trends.

Super High School Level 
In the original Japanese, Junko's title is Super High School Level Gyaru (超高校級の「ギャル」). The term gyaru refers to a Japanese street fashion subculture. Gyaru fashion is typically characterized by having heavily bleached or dyed hair (mostly shades from dark brown to blonde), highly decorated nails, and dramatic makeup. Since Junko is still a high school student, she is technically a コギャル "kogyaru" (an abbreviation of 高校生ギャル kōkōsei gyaru or "high school gyaru"). Kogyaru are known for altering their school uniforms (e.g. by shortening the skirt) and their fondness of platform boots - two visible features of Junko's attire. Decorating one's cell phone extensively (as well as constantly handling it) is a signature gyaru habit, which explains Alter Ego Junko's choice of an over-adorned cell phone as her courtroom avatar for the final trial of Danganronpa 2. Gyaru, in general, are also fond of bleaching their hair and wearing colored contact lenses - making it highly probable that Junko has neither naturally strawberry blond hair nor naturally blue eyes. Bearing this fact in mind, it is very much possible that Junko's natural hair and eye colors are those of her temporary identity, Ryōko Otonashi.

Super High School Level Analytical 
Junko's true talent allows her to quickly analyze her surroundings with near superhuman fast and detailed thinking.

This talent gives her an excellent ability to make very detailed plans in a short amount of time. She is also excellent at reading and thus manipulating others. She can often predict what a person is going to do before they do it - an ability she can use to defeat opponents much stronger than her. It is also this ability that threw her into boredom since she was able to accurately guess how events would play out; this fueled her love of despair as an "unknown".

Ultimate Despair 
Junko has the ability to cause nearly anyone to fall into despair, and she revels in the despair felt by herself and others. Using her talent as the Super High School Level Analytical Prowess, she could detect everyone's weaknesses and use this information to manipulate or even exploit people around her to do her bidding.

This was demonstrated by how she could prevent the Warriors of Hope from committing suicide and persuaded them to join her in spreading despair by killing adults. It's also been shown that she has severely abused her sister and made her very dependent of her. However, it should be noted that she usually takes the more personal approach only with people she is genuinely interested in. She tends to literally brainwash masses, using videos created with Ryota Mitarai's animation brainwashing technique and her own talent of despair.

The only person she could never get to was Makoto, who could be considered the true Ultimate Hope in the same way Junko is considered the true Ultimate Despair. In the case of Izuru, the original Ultimate Hope, he was never truly loyal to her and his despair was caused solely by his own boredom.


Ability to sense Talent, Hope and Despair 
Similar to Nagito Komaeda, Junko seems to have a strange ability to sense hope and despair in other people, which doesn't seem to be related to her analytical skill. This is seen in Danganronpa Zero, when she can sense the incredible strength hidden inside Makoto even while currently having the amnesiac persona of Ryōko. This is also seen in Danganronpa 3, when she similarly senses Makoto's potential.

In other 
Junko's talents as they appear in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc and Danganronpa: Another Episode.

Ultimate Fashionista
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「ギャル」	Super High School Level Fashion Girl
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"太妹"	Super High School Level Playgirl
中文超高校级的"太妹"	Super High School Level Playgirl(DRtA)
DeutschSuper-Fashion-Diva	Super Fashion Diva (DRtA)
Français La Fashion Victim Ultime	Ultimate Fashion Victim (DRV3)
ItalianoSuper Gal Liceale	Super High School Level Model(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Modelo	Super High School Student Level: Model (DRtA)
Ultimate Despair
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「絶望」	Super High School Level Despair
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"絕望"	Super High School Level Despair
中文超高校级的"绝望"	Super High School Level Despair(DRtA)
DeutschSuper-Verzweiflung	Super Despair (DRtA)
Français La Lycéenne Ultime du Désespoir	Schoolgirl Ultimate Despair (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Disperazione Liceale	Super High School Level Despair(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Desesperación	Super High School Student Level: Despair (DRtA)
한국어초 고교 급 의 절망	Super High School Class Despair(DR:AE)
‪中文(台灣)‬超高中級的絕望	Super High School Level Despair(DR:AE)
History 
Prior to the Tragedy 
As children, Junko and her twin sister Mukuro, had lived in abject conditions and they were even homeless at some point. As she puts it, she regretted the moment of her own birth, feeling that her birth into the world was a mistake. Due to her analytical skills allowing her to predict the outcome of events, she became bored with the world. Because of that, she took an interest in despair, which she believes is unpredictable and exciting, at very young age.

As a child, she was close with Yasuke Matsuda, as they didn't have any other friends. One particular moment between the two when they were elementary school students was when Junko spent a month building a sand sculpture modeled after the Sagrada Familia church at the public park, and she even used very advanced techniques for her age. The sculpture got closer to completion and many people from around the neighborhood came over just to watch her work.

One day, the sand castle was found destroyed just before it was completed. Junko cried continuously for almost an entire day and Yasuke went around angrily looking for the perpetrator. Not being able to find out anything useful discouraged Yasuke. While he was sitting on a bench in front of the remains of the sand sculpture, Junko ran up to him with a large smile and whispered in his ear that she was the culprit who destroyed the sculpture all along, asking him to keep it a secret. When asked for a reason, she replied that she did so by accident. Truthfully, she had done this to get Yasuke out of his house, upset that his mother's condition had led him to become more withdrawn than usual.

In the years following the death of Yasuke's mother, Junko became the person that Yasuke felt he could always lean on. She promised to always be there for him, which helped develop his stronger feelings towards her. She said she'll never forget Yasuke even if she forgets everything else, and they'll always be together. For the first time in his life, Yasuke cried in front of another person, after making her promise she won't make fun of him, won't tell anyone and won't try to console him. Junko had romantic feelings for Yasuke, referring to them as "lovers", though Yasuke denied this.

Junko had a strong desire to "paint the world in despair" and planned to start The Tragedy, the worst, most despair-inducing incident in the history of mankind. She called herself and her sister the Despair Sisters AKA the Ultimate Despair.

As a teen, Junko began a modeling career and quickly became an idol amongst the Japanese population with her extravagant tastes. One reason for her popularity was the fact that, ironically, she didn't seem fake. Her career created a lot of unwanted attention as well; she claimed that the only men who were interested in her were "creeps who did not actually care about her."

Junko used to attend Gunma Prefectural Shibutani High School. She was scouted into Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Fashionista along with her twin sister Mukuro, the Ultimate Soldier, into Class 78th. Unlike other students, her admission is a special case by the recommendation of the Steering Committee; her talent is guaranteed by the Committee, with explicit dis-involvement of Jin Kirigiri and Koichi Kizakura. The responsibility of her as a student was placed upon the headmaster after her admission, with the Committee removing their responsibility on her development.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc 
Episode 05 - The Beginning of the End 
Junko first appeared walking out of a taxi at the airport. She leaves a wallet rigged to explode in the car as a "tip" for the driver. Junko then walked into the airport and waited for her sister Mukuro, while narrating her plan to the viewer and her sister.

The two are later seen in a limo. Junko asks Mukuro if she has more freckles while picking up an ice pick, trying to repeatedly stab her her with it, which Mukuro manages to easily block. Mukuro, in her head, mentions how her her sister is trying to taste the despair of killing her own sister; thinking about how her sister will surely fall into despair if she succeeds.

Junko then takes out a grenade and, after jumping to the other side of the limo, throws it at Mukuro. Mukuro, however, simply picked up the grenade with her champagne glass and throws it outside the limo, blowing up underneath another car. Following that, Junko went back to her sister and told her that she stinks, blaming it on her body odor, with Mukuro insisting that she has been bathing. She then asks Junko on why she contacted her; Junko explained that the two of them have been scouted by Hope's Peak Academy and that they will be attending school there.

The two are later seen at the school ceremony, right behind Makoto, who is about to walk into the school, as Junko narrates the story. Mukuro asks Junko if narrating is her current obsession, with Junko saying that it is, but that she already got bored of it as she draws a picture of Monokuma.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
Sometime after the entrance ceremony, Junko kidnaps one of Hope's Peak Academy trustees and tortures him (presumably to death) by scooping his eye out with a spoon covered with curry. As she explains to her victim, torturing someone with something easily familiar and seemingly harmless is more effective than conventional implements of pain.

With her sister assisting her, Junko manages to reach the room where Izuru Kamukura is held in. As Mukuro killed the guards, Junko, while eating takoyaki, tells her sister to clean the mess she's made and finally arrives in front of the room. Mukuro states that the door has a retinal scanner. Junko claims that she has "borrowed" what they need and picks the trustee's eyeball from her takoyaki, granting the sisters access to the room.

Junko showed her excitement and complimented Izuru before she started to manipulate him by showing her intention to kill him using a knife. However, Izuru easily blocks Junko's attack and pins her down to the floor, while he effortlessly slams Mukuro to the wall. Junko then shares Izuru about her interests with despair, which Izuru immediately claims is rather illogical. Junko then tells the experimented student that the logic is irrelevant to her. Izuru then assesses that she has super analytic abilities and asks Junko why she would place herself in a situation where she would obviously lose.

Junko revealed that the reason why she loved despair so much because of her super analytical ability, she got bored with the world and only despair that could save her from that boredom. She also recognizes Izuru's analytical ability persuaded her to join her side. When Junko started to really enjoy her current situation, the alarms are activated and Izuru is prompted to knock her out.

Junko regained her consciousness inside the school's hospital, where Mukuro told her that she managed to make excuses for her injuries, claiming that she tripped and fell down a flight of stairs. Mukuro then tells her that after Izuru knocked her out, he informs the Ultimate Soldier that he will be "waiting" for the two of them. Junko excitedly jumps out of her bed and decided to meet with him despite her injuries. She passes by Ryota Mitarai and shows an immediate interest in him claiming that their meeting is yet another fateful encounter.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
Outside of the Hope's Peak hospital, Junko asked Ryota and he replied that he was the Ultimate Animator. Junko eagerly wanted to see his anime and invited Ryota's dorm. After watching Ryota's anime, Junko and Mukuro are so moved that they are reduced to a sobbing mess after seeing the test stages of the anime. Junko is intrigued as Ryota explaining the techniques that he used, and equates it to brainwashing; he justified it by saying it can be used in a beneficial way while Junko sees it as something she can use to her advantage.

Junko has set Ryota up in the office of the missing Steering Committee member while Mukuro brought the abducted Mikan, making Junko decided to let Mikan watch the anime. She lft Mikan with Ryota while she and Mukuro go to get Izuru. Junko wanted to show Izuru the Student Council Killing Game that she had planned and invited him to watch the despair-inducing event.

The Despair Sisters assembled the Student Council, planning for them to kill each other. The council refused even after Junko unveils taped that have their parents scandals on them. Before the Killing Game started, Junko gave Mukuro a song note and ordered her to sing while the frightening event occured.

As the chaos unfolds, Junko made her way into the control room with Mukuro. Junko talked about how despair can make life more interesting as she observed the massacre taking place on the security camera's. In the end, only Sōshun Murasame survived the killing game with the remaining assumed survivor getting killed in a confrontation with Izuru. Izuru is shocked when the dying council member gets off a shot that grazes his cheek.

Junko sent mass e-mails to all of the Reserve Course students, exposing the Student Council massacre, and Izuru's existence. She used security footage to blame the murders on Izuru and stated that the Reserve Course was implemented to get money for human experimentation. This caused the Reserve Course to riot, ultimately leading to the Parade of the Reserve Course.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by Chance 
In the secret room that she stole from a trustee that she executed, Junko was solving a jigsaw puzzle and looking at Class 77-B's wonderful photos filled with so much hope while the already-brainwashed Mikan telling her that the class rep Chiaki Nanami and the homeroom teacher Chisa Yukizome worked so hard for her class. This information developing Junko's interest in making Class 77-B turned from the full hope into Ultimate Despair.

Junko advised Ryota to return to his class and when he asked back why Junko wasting her time solving a jigsaw puzzle, Junko simply flipped the solved puzzle and answered that when the order she spent a long time to build was ultimately swallowed by chaos, it can cause a great despair.

Junko later appeared kicking Mikan who trying to seduce Ryota into despair. Ryota asked Junko whether she was the one who drove Mikan into despair, and she answered through her project presentation. She planned to use Ryota's brainwashing anime technique and combining it with the recording of The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy, resulting in a brainwashing video titled Despair Video to knock the world into despair. Junko blackmailed Ryota by choosing his classmates as the participant of the next Mutual Killing Game if he won't cooperate with her.

Due to Mikan's disappearance, her classmates went out to search for her and eventually making Nagito Komaeda and Chiaki discovered Junko's hideout. She was impressed by Nagito after he could stop Mukuro from intervening his plan and asked him how she could track so many information regarding her movement. Junko showed her disgust over Nagito's babbling toward hope, and commented that his love for hope is insane until a despairful degree. As Nagito pointed a gun to Junko, she showed no movement as she already predicted that Izuru would come to save her by jamming Nagito's gun and shot him with it. She praised Izuru once again, and of course she didn't get any reaction from him.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Junko intervened the conversation between Izuru and Chiaki who desperately asking his true identity as Hajime. Then she introduced herself as the mastermind of the whole mess of the Hope's Peak Academy to Chiaki. As she already put her interest in Chiaki before their first encounter, Junko had planned to make her watch the Despair Video that she and Ryota created. However, Chisa came and created a diversion by throwing a fire extinguisher, allowing Chiaki and the collapsed Nagito escaped from Junko's grasp.

After the two students left, Junko told Chisa that she let Chiaki and Nagito escaped because she came up with a better plan. After she introduced herself and Izuru to Chisa, she explained that the students of Class 77-B will be dyed with despair that day by brainwashing them using the Despair Video. To show the results of the brainwashing, Junko called an already-brainwashed Reserve Course student and ordered him to commit suicide. As he slowly killed himself by cutting his own neck, Junko excitedly told Chisa that she will fallen into despair just like him too. Junko and Mukuro tied and forced Chisa to watch the brainwashing video. She need to go somewhere else and ordered Mukuro to do whatever she wants to the teacher.

Junko, along with a bunch of brainwashed Reserve Course students gathered on a bridge as they accompanied Junko in biding her farewell to Ryota who escaped from her secret hideout. She thanked Ryota for making the complete version of Despair Video, because of his "hard work", she is going to brainwash Ryota's classmates and plunged the world into despair. Junko clamed the panicked Ryota down by telling that the creation of Despair Video is not his fault at all and instead, telling him to run because running away from the problem is Ryota's despair.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope 
Junko is able to defeat Juzo, the onslaught of Reserve Course students is able to overwhelm him and he lay at Junko's feet in disbelief. She is disappointed that she was unable to defeat him through exploiting his weakness instead. She then revealed this weakness, showing a picture to Juzo on her phone of him staring lovingly at a picture of Kyosuke. She threatened to show Kyosuke and explain of Juzo's feelings for him, but Juzo begged her not to and while Junko agreed, she demanded he attest to her innocence instead proclaiming that she did not murder the Hope's Peak Academy trustee's. When he agreed to this half-heartedly she pressed her stiletto aggressively to his head and demanded he beg her to do, having Juzo under her complete control, he does so and she released her hold. She then left the school grounds, the Reserve Course students follow with her, shielding her from the rain with an umbrella. She stated that Juzo was only the 'appetizer' in her plan and that she had no further use for him.

When Chiaki is forced down a lift by Chisa, she found herself in an underground corridor, with Junko addressing her from a monitor. She explained that she brainwashed Chisa by making her watch the despair video and this was only possible through Ryota's animation techniques, Junko then stated that she noticed Chiaki and knew she was the final piece in her plan to make her entire class fall into despair.

Junko relayed to the Class 77-B through monitors that Chiaki's punishment was now officially going to begin after she had trapped them in a room imitating a school class trial. The door opened and Chiaki was forced into a harrowing gauntlet full of dangerous traps. Junko consistently monitored her progress, treating Chiaki's punishment as a virtual game and commentated on her movements. Despite taking multiple injuries, she refused to give up, impressing Junko enough to give her a ten-second break. Junko began counting down as Chiaki desperately tried to limp to safety, only to be speared in her right knee when Junko reached the six-second mark; a cruel fakeout that Junko mockingly attributed to "a despairingly bad memory".

Chiaki defiantly told Junko that she wouldn't let her beat her or her friends, making it to a door marked "GOAL" - on the other side, she saw what appeared to be Chisa and her classmates. Chiaki moved toward them, only to be impaled by a spear as the illusion broke. Falling backwards, she was caught in a bed of spears that shot out of the ground, impaling her entire body before dropping her lifelessly. The death of Chiaki forced the Class 77-B into despair and Junko's plan was now complete.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy 
Mukuro, Junko, and Izuru stand atop a tall building, near to the school, with a view of Class 77-B. Junko stared at the class through her binoculars before proclaiming that they will infect the world with despair. Mukuro, not understanding what Junko meant by infect, is promptly silenced, Junko scolding her for not knowing her plan immediately slaps her, causing Mukuro to fall to the ground. prodding Mukuro with her stiletto heel, Junko explained that an 'ominous' and 'fun' atmosphere caused the world of hope to fall into despair.

Once the Reserve Students had finished their march on Hope's Peak, leaving it in ruin, Junko thanked them over her mobile phone, prompting them to commit suicide after adhering to her wishes. Mukuro inquired as to why she didn't keep them around to help, but she was immediately rebuffed by Junko who explained that they may think like her but are nowhere near the same level so have become useless to her. Mukuro agreed while staring at her in admiration, her happiness undimmed even when Junko pointed out that Mukuro may not be safe either if she lets her guard down.

Junko and Mukuro then met with the Class 78th, helping them to convert the academy into a bunker against the chaos outside. During the process, Junko threw a wrench at Makoto Naegi, only for it to miss when he conveniently tripped. Junko noted to Mukuro that Makoto was the only person who she could not predict; nonetheless, she shot down her sister's suggestion that they kill him, believing that it would be more despair-inducing if someone like Makoto was able to beat her in the end.

Danganronpa Zero 
After the Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy, Junko spread rumors about it, claiming that Izuru Kamukura was the culprit. Yasuke was asked by the school to interrogate her, but in reality he was Junko's ally. In preparation for the Mutual Killing of 78th Class, Junko tested procedures for memory-erasing with the reluctant assistance of Yasuke. Having succeeded in erasing her own memories with Yasuke's memory-erasing technology, she assumed the fake identity of Ryōko Otonashi and hid from suspicion.

As she no longer remembered who she was, she only had false information in a notebook and the continual deception by both Yasuke and Mukuro (who pretended to be Junko) to go off on. Around the same time, the school board members were killed one by one by Mukuro.

Eventually, she managed to recover all of her lost memories and she killed Yasuke in a fit of despair. Afterwards, Junko returned to her school life and continued preparations for the 78th Class' Mutual Killing along with Mukuro.

The Warriors of Hope 
Around the time when The Tragedy was beginning, five abused kids from Hope's Peak Elementary School called Monaca, Nagisa Shingetsu, Kotoko Utsugi, Masaru Daimon and Jataro Kemuri were about to commit suicide. However, Junko stopped them and took them under her wing, convincing them that the adults who abused them were wrong.

Junko manipulated and brainwashed the children, giving them their first true hope and acting loving towards them. She made them think that they're her property. However, in truth, she was only interested in Monaca, who as a member of the Towa Group mass produced extremely dangerous Monokuma robots for Junko.

Furthermore, Junko decided to use the children to cause more despair and taught them that all the adults are Demons who need to be killed. The children started to call themselves the Warriors of Hope. The kids seemingly were loving towards Junko as well, but as later revealed in Danganronpa: Another Episode, Monaca was the only one who was ultimately loving towards her, often referring to her as "Big Sis Junko".

During the Tragedy 
At Junko's bequest, all the Reserve Students committed mass suicide, furthering the message of despair. The riots spread outside the school, both online and off, and slowly became more violent and destructive as more and more people succumbed to despair. Wars started and soon the whole world fell into despair. The whole incident was known as The Tragedy.

The Ultimate Despair members worshiped Junko and spread all over the world to cause terrible things for the sake of despair. They even killed their friends and families. The Warriors of Hope started to kill adults, even their parents, in order to create a paradise for children.

Junko's classmates, the Class 78th, sealed Hope's Peak Academy and lived peacefully inside it for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst. Junko incapacitated them somehow, executed the headmaster Jin Kirigiri, and erased her classmates' memories.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc 
Junko starts the Mutual Killing of Class 78th and speaks to her classmates through a smaller version of Monokuma, hiding her true identity.

She worked behind the scenes and controlled Monokuma in order to cause anxiety and paranoia among the students to make them kill each other. She also began to broadcast everything as a TV program for the public to enjoy and fall into despair.

Chapter 1 - To Survive 
Mukuro posed among the students as Junko herself and the original plan was to have her trapped in the dungeon in order to "set an example" for the students not to directly rebel against Monokuma. However, on a whim, Junko decided to kill her sister for real and she was brutally impaled by Monokuma with numerous spears, dubbed "Spears of Gungnir". The reason Junko killed Mukuro was to bring her and her sister despair, since beyond all appearances she truly did love Mukuro. Despite this, the survivors of the Killing School Life took it as plain murder.

All of the students then believed that Junko had died, not knowing that the Junko they knew was an imposter, because at the time the students were not privy to the fact that there were actually sixteen students.

Chapter 3 - A Next Generation Legend! 
After the class trial, Kyoko told Makoto that she had found a hidden room containing secret documents about Hope's Peak Academy, accessed through the supply closet of the second floor men's restroom. After Makoto entered this room, a masked Junko knocked him out from behind. When he woke up, all of the files were gone.

Chapter 5 - 100 Mile Dash; Pain of a Junk Food Junkie 
During the course of events, Junko was able to ensure the deaths of several of the students, before realizing that Kyoko Kirigiri had somehow managed to break into the headmaster's office and steal the master key and part of Mukuro's profiled information. She then decided to break her own rules and stage a murder by using Mukuro's body.

Junko almost succeeded in her attempt to kill Makoto and frame Kyoko, but was ultimately fruitless when Kyoko saved Makoto just as she was about to stab him, and then by Makoto not calling out Kyoko's lie during the Class Trial when Kyoko announced that she would not have been able to access her own room.

With Kyoko's lie not called out, a frustrated Junko had no choice but to call guilt on Makoto, who remained under unconvincing suspicion throughout the trial. Junko's plans to execute Makoto were thwarted by Alter Ego, however, who had stopped the execution in time for Makoto to evade death. She taunted the students, still, despite the setback, and proclaimed that even if Makoto survived the execution he would eventually rot inside the school garbage dump, making his punishment worse than usual, despite her preferences on executions.

Chapter 6 - Ultimate Pain, Ultimate Suffering, Ultimate Despair, Ultimate Execution, Ultimate Death 
Junko had not counted on Kyoko jumping into the rubbish chute to save him, and was properly thwarted when both Kyoko and Makoto showed up at the gymnasium to issue an ultimatum. She was forced to accept that a retrial is necessary, but then Junko —then still in Monokuma form— decided to gradually reveal the whole truth to the students, confident that even if she was exposed, they would not be able to handle the shock of the outside world they longed to go back to having already "ended" due to The Tragedy.

During the final Class Trial, Makoto and Kyoko deduce that Junko was the one pulling the strings the entire time and she was revealed to be the mastermind behind everything at the Academy. She then confirmed the suspicion - one that emerged from the intense Class Trial debates - that she erased everyone's memories of the last two years so she could implement her plan to make the world suffer in despair.

Junko then put a vote together to have students vote for the abstract ideas of "hope" versus "despair", where all but Makoto would live their lives out within the confines of the Academy if any one of the students chose "Despair", and Makoto alone will take a huge punishment - meaning he would have been subjected to The Ultimate Punishment if anyone would vote for despair.

However, Makoto reassured the surviving students of a future ahead despite the difficulties, and thus was able to convince all the students to vote for "Hope", condemning Junko to a final defeat in the climax of a Machinegun Talk Battle of "Hope" versus "Despair".

Though seemingly livid over the results shortly after the vote was settled, Junko instead became perversely delighted as she tasted her own despair for once. She delightfully accepted her execution and death, but not before giving the remaining students the means to escape the Academy. It was also noted she was feeling the tiniest bit down because she had wanted to spread the despair she was feeling to the entire world.

Aftermath 
After Junko was executed, most members of Ultimate Despair committed suicide. The surviving members hacked her body into pieces and attached those parts to themselves; one notable example was Nagito, who took her left hand and treated it as his own, despite it being non-functional, and Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu, who removed his own right eye and implanted it with Junko's.

As a back-up plan, Junko had created an AI version of herself, with the knowledge she stole from Chihiro Fujisaki. It's even implied that her death was planned right from the start.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls 
Alter Ego Junko manipulates both the Warriors of Hope and the adults of the Towa City in the form of Shirokuma and Kurokuma. In the end, both robots are destroyed by Izuru to salvage their hard-drives for their AI.

After she failed to make Makoto's little sister, Komaru Naegi as the Successor of Junko Enoshima, Monaca decides to become Junko's Successor herself.

Danganronpa Gaiden: Killer Killer 
Chapter 10 - Killer Killer 
Junko appears alongside Mukuro after the events of the Giboura Massacre, congratulating her for a job well done. She feared her sister's killing abilities may have become rusty since she had just returned to Japan, but it seemed that such was not the case. She then says that she has a job for her that will be much more fun for Mukuro in store, as she bears her signature devilish grin.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair 
Main article: Alter Ego Junko

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Junko makes a brief cameo in the opening sequence of Future Arc. When the knife used in the Sleeping Period killings appears onscreen, Junko's eyes are reflected in the blade.

Episode 08 - Who Killed Cock 
Junko appeared in a flashback when Juzo Sakakura mused that he won't fail Kyosuke Munakata again, referring to how she blackmailed him into lying about her role in the fall of Hope's Peak Academy.

Episode 12 - It is Always Darkest 
Junko appeared in the afterlife, talking with Chisa while watching the events of the Final Killing Game. She recapped the events that led to the outcome of the Final Killing Game, laughing at how Chisa effectively destroyed the Future Foundation by turning Kazuo and Kyosuke against each other. Chisa continued her narration, rebutting Junko's claim that the world is done for, stating that this story will end in hope; although visibly annoyed for a moment, Junko insisted that it didn't matter anymore because both of them are already dead.

Execution 
Main Article: The Ultimate Punishment
Relationships 
Family:
Mukuro 
Mukuro is Junko's older twin sister. While Mukuro cared deeply for her younger sister, Junko appears to have no love for her sister and sees her as a tool to do her bidding, while at the same time behaved towards Mukuro in a derogatory manner. Whenever Mukuro talked fondly of Junko, she yelled at her and told her she's being gross. She frequently called her a dumb muscle who is only good for killing, and mocked Mukuro whenever she showed interest in anything else (especially if it was something good and nice like wishing to have friends). Furthermore, she frequently insulted Mukuro's looks and intelligence, considering herself superior in every way.

Junko seemingly displayed no concern for Mukuro and was willing to kill her (while Mukuro was disguised as her) to set an example to the remaining students, and because she was 'a poor actor'. It's revealed that before attending Hope's Peak Academy, Junko had already tried to kill Mukuro. One example of this is when Junko tried to murder her sister with an ice pick and a grenade while in a limo. Mukuro, however, did not allow her to do this, blocked Junko's attacks, and threw the grenade out the window. In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's non-canon bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Junko throws knives at Mukuro when they meet, indicating that this is some sort of twisted habit between the two that they do whenever they see each other after a while. Junko is also seen being physically abusive towards Mukuro on several occasions, often hitting and kicking her, though Mukuro sometimes seems to enjoy this. In Danganronpa Zero and Danganronpa 3, it's indicated that Mukuro may have incestious feelings towards her sister, but Junko does not appear to be aware of this or just doesn't care.

However, paradoxically, it was also indicated that Junko did truly love her sister and that her betrayal was meant to send them both into despair (for Junko, the despair of killing her sister, and for Mukuro, the despair of being betrayed and killed by her sister). However, Junko never knew, or tried to understand, that Mukuro's definition of despair had always differed from hers.

Love Interest:
Yasuke 
Yasuke and Junko were childhood friends and met on amicable terms during when Yasuke's unnamed mother was struck with a disease implied to be Alzheimer's, causing her to lose recognition of her son which also resulted in Yasuke being neglected and abused as a child, which later made him become majorly depressed and introverted before he met Junko while still in elementary school. One particular moment between the two when they were children was when Junko spent many days building a sand castle. One day, the sand castle was found destroyed. Yasuke went around angrily looking for the perpetrator until finally, Junko approached him that it was actually her that destroyed her own sand castle.

In the years following the death of Yasuke's mother, Junko became the person that Yasuke felt he could always lean on, in fact, he didn't have any other close ones. She promised to always be there for him, which helped develop his stronger feelings towards her. She said she'll never forget Yasuke even if she forgets everything else, and that they'll always be together. For the first time in his life, Yasuke cried in front of another person, after making her promise she won't make fun of him, won't tell anyone and won't try to console him. He became dependent on her and ready to do anything for her, because she told him she'll be what's important to him for now and prevented him from being all alone when he needed it the most. Junko also had a tendency to call them "lovers" and had romantic feelings for Yasuke, but he denied this with annoyance and called her a "stalker", treating her very similarly like he does Ryōko later in life. Yasuke has described Junko as "not family, a lover or even a friend ... but someone just as important to him as any of those".

Both of them later enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy and after the school's tragedy Yasuke reluctantly assisted Junko in her plans, creating her alternative identity Ryōko Otonashi. He wanted to prevent her from ever remembering, in order to protect her from herself and to protect other people. However, Junko had already planned ahead and had murders occur in the school. Despite not enjoying despair and killing, Yasuke was willing to do unethical things for the sake of protecting Junko, even if it caused him to feel horrible guilt.

Finally, Yasuke understands and admits to himself that Junko has only been using him. He is frustrated by her love for despair and he's angered when he assumes that she never cared about him. He states that he both loves and hates her, and eventually he decides to kill her when she is still Ryōko. However, he ends up getting killed by Junko in a fit of despair, as he is one of the few people she cares about the most. He was stabbed in the side by Junko and afterwards, she kicked his body until it was a bloody unrecognizable mess. He died believing that Junko did not care about him at all, but in truth this was not the case. Junko did not view him as a mere servant or even an ally and truly did love him as he did her as killing him resulted in her sadness and grief for his death and let him die in despair for the sake of increasing her own despair, proving this with the words "... you were the most important person to me of all..." after his death.

Class 78th:
Makoto 
From the moment she first saw Makoto, she knew he would cause problems for her, due to him and his luck are unpredictable and for the same motive, Junko leaves Makoto alive because he's the only one who can defy her. Out of all of the students in Class 78th, she finds him the most annoying and odd person in her class. During the mutual killing life game Makoto foils Junko's attempt to execute Kyoko then Junko attempted to convince the other survivors to execute Makoto but they instead they vote to execute her. Makoto states that she doesn't need to die, but Junko executes herself even after his request.

Kyoko 
Due to how close she was to discovering the truth about the killing game and her stealing her skeleton key, Junko recognized Kyoko as a threat and attempted to frame her for the murder of Mukuro, who was dead at the time, but this plan is ruined by Makoto.

Class 77-B:
Ryota 
An underclassman and member of the Class 77-B of Hope's Peak Academy. Her talent allowed her to see a certain "something" in Ryota during their first encounter, and immediately tried to find out his talent. Ryota was embarrassed at first. He was also angered by Junko's disinterest in anime, but quickly warmed up to her when she began to show interest in his animation. Although often bewildered by Junko's violent actions, he was grateful to her for giving him an entirely new environment for him to work on his anime.

However, Ryota starts to grow suspicious of Junko when she talks about despair and Mikan stops acting normally. After Ryota finds a video of the student council's mutual killing game, Junko tried to make him despair by traumatizing him. Ryota was fearful of her from then on and after he escapes, Junko doesn't kill him as she thought that running away from the situation was Ryota's despair.

Mikan 
Mikan was the first person in Class 77-B Junko brainwashed. Junko didn't actually care for her, wishing only to throw her into despair (or test her brainwashing video on Mikan); however, the effects of her brainwashing caused Mikan to worship her, doing anything Junko asked. Much like her sister, Junko physically and verbally abused Mikan, kicking her and calling her disgusting. She also seems to treat her like a servant, as Mikan is seen massaging her legs. Mikan refers to Junko as the only person who truly loved and paid attention to her, but Junko never viewed Mikan as anything more than a tool and never felt any love towards her.

Nagito 
As one of the students that she brainwashed, Junko only thinks of Nagito as a tool, much like the other Ultimate Despairs, and does not care for him at all. Nagito has a sort of one-sided rivalry with her, considering her his sworn enemy.

It's later revealed that Nagito attempted to kill Junko on their first encounter, when Nagito found Junko in an underground tunnel by chance. Junko remained calm during these events, and was amused by how much Nagito believed in hope. Nagito ultimately failed to kill her, thanks to Izuru, but Junko later brainwashed Nagito and the rest of his class.

Chiaki 
Junko was actually the one who killed the beloved class rep of Class 77-B. Upon meeting Chiaki in an underground room, Junko takes an interest in her, claiming she'd been wanting to become friends with her, although this is obviously a lie. Junko wanted Chiaki to watch the brainwashing video, but after capturing and brainwashing Chisa, Junko changed her mind. Realizing how important Chiaki was to her class, Junko executes Chiaki to throw Class 77-B into despair. Junko was amused by how much hope Chiaki had, and taunted her for that during Chiaki's execution.

Hope's Peak Academy Staff:
Chisa 
Junko had a somewhat complicated relationship with the homeroom teacher of Class 77-B. When Chisa learned that Junko was responsible for the recent events at Hope's Peak, she tried to protect her students from her, ultimately failing when Junko subdued and brainwashed her with the help of Mukuro. Even after being brainwashed, Chisa didn't harbor the same feelings that most of the Ultimate Despair held for Junko. She didn't love or admire her, and instead of bringing despair to the world, she brought it only to Kyosuke and the Future Foundation. Junko's feelings towards Chisa are unknown, but she seems to view Chisa as more than a tool to do her bidding; Junko is seen personally talking to Chisa in the afterlife, laughing at how much Chisa had accomplished as an Ultimate Despair. However, Chisa actually seems quite annoyed with Junko, frowning while she continues to talk about despair.

Kyosuke 
Kyosuke always hated Junko ever since he learned of her role in the Tragedy, and vowed to kill her. However, Junko didn't view him as a big obstacle or acknowledge his strength, both of which Kyosuke thought of her. Junko, however, mangaged to turn Kyosuke's closest friends against him; Chisa and Juzo. By brainwashing Chisa and blackmailing Juzo, she effortlessly convinced them to vouch for her and cover up her guilt. Later, Junko is seen laughing about how Chisa turned against Kyosuke in the afterlife, showing that she was amused by the way things had turned out.

Juzo 
Juzo holds a deep grudge against Junko for both causing him to betray Kyosuke and starting the Tragedy. When Juzo confronted Junko on Kyosuke's behalf, Junko managed to overpower him in a physical fight (with some brainwashed Reserve Course students). She continued by blackmailing him, threatening to show Kyosuke photos of Juzo showing love for him in private. Junko found the whole situation hilarious, and called Juzo weak, saying she had no more time to waste on someone like him.

Ultimate Despair Members:
Junko seems to have close relationships with some of the Ultimate Despair members, though she likely fabricated those relationships to increase their loyalty to her and bring them deeper into despair. In general, they're described to be madly in love with her and shared her love for despair as a result of Junko's brainwashing. A few examples of this are Mikan Tsumiki and Nagito Komaeda, although Izuru seems to be the exception.

Besides that, Junko doesn't care about any of them - except to Mukuro and Izuru - considering them pawns to achieve her goals.

Izuru 
Junko at first seemed to have an underlying obsession with Izuru, possible because he is the Ultimate Hope, and attempted to kill him because of his title.

After realizing both her and Mukuro couldn't defeat him, she instead tried to convert Izuru into a member of the Ultimate Despair. She brings Izuru along with her when she triggers the first Hope's Peak killing game and she frames Izuru to show him what despair was, and eventually convinced him that a world of hope was boring. Izuru once protected Junko from Nagito after he attempts to kill her with a gun, showing that he was on Junko's side.

In the Danganronpa 3 relationship chart, Junko states that Izuru is a fateful encounter. She believed that she and him were destined for each other and a perfect match for spreading despair together, occasionally acting like an overly enthusiastic fan and flirting with him in a joking manner, though he is completely unresponsive and uninterested to this. Unusually, she also seemed to treat Izuru as an ally instead of her servant, and she was irritated when Izuru walked away without saying a proper goodbye. She appears to have some genuine attraction towards him, as she is seen blushing and looking at him in adoring manner after he shot Nagito and thus saved her life.

In the end, neither of the two truly cared about each other and were only using each other—Izuru was just affiliated with her to see how unpredictable despair is, while Junko saw him as a tool in her hand, stating that she'll always find a use for him.

In Chapter 0 of Danganronpa 2, Izuru acknowledges that Junko used him in the past and seems to desire for revenge, as he wants to use her like she used him. He is shown to possess unusual hatred towards her, now considering her an enemy, possibly due to subconscious anger towards her actions. Danganronpa 3 reveals that Izuru was actually manipulating events after The Tragedy to strengthen both sides of the conflict, setting up a scenario where Junko's despair could clash with the Future Foundation's hope in order to determine which truly was stronger.

Warriors of Hope:
Monaca 
Monaca sees Junko as her savior and idol after she stopped the Warriors of Hope before they committed suicide together. Junko planned to use the Warriors of Hope as one of her pawn to spread despair to the world.

Junko appears to be the only person Monaca genuinely cared about. She was the only Warrior of Hope who knew that Junko was just using them, but she didn't care, as she was so grateful for Junko for "shining light into her boring world".

Monaca also has many pictures of Junko in her secret room. One main photo depicts her with a younger looking Junko holding onto her wheelchair. Despite their closeness, even Junko didn't seem to know that she was only faking her disability.

Not wanting Junko's legacy to end, Monaca's main goal was to create a second-generation Junko Enoshima. She planned to become her successor herself based on the Servant's advice, but ended up giving up on this goal after she realized that she didn't want to become like him, completely obsessed with hope and despair.

Character Design and Creation 
Junko Enoshima Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
Junko's beta design for Danganronpa gave her a predominantly gold-yellow color scheme and a more stereotypical "girly" appearance, with smaller pigtails worn lower on her head, a small necklace instead of a tie, and visible lipstick. As the game came closer to completion, Junko's design was tweaked to be similar to her final appearance, but with a red and black plaid tie and without a white shirt under her cardigan.
Junko beta murder
In an earlier version of the game, Junko was apparently planned to be one of the murder victims.



Quotes 
DR1DR3Novel
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Chapter 6:

"We have been waiting! Waiting so very long for peasants like you to appear! If you swear your fealty to us, we will reward you with half of the entire world! We've even drawn up the deed already! We will grant you honor, status, and some of our home cooking! Have you made your choice? Will you serve under us?"
"Having to play Monokuma all the time, day after day... It was like I was stuck in purgatory, or like a slow suicide. I get bored so easy, ya know?"
"What's wrong with my beautiful face? People have told me I'm cuter than a hundred chihuahuas combined."
"Two people people can never become one as long as the walls of mind and body exist..." (About Mukuro)
"Sometimes a little lie necessary to keep things moving along, wouldn't you agree?"
"The older sister, tough and proud—that was Mukuro. The younger sister, smart and cute—that was... Hyaaaahaha! Me! Junko fucking Enoshima! And together, we were the Despair Sisters! AKA the Ultimate Despair!"
"Like I said, I get bored easy as hell! I even get fuckin' bored with myself!"
"Maybe it's new to your dumb ass, but it bores me to tears! Answering tthe same questions, over and over! Just make up whatever answer you want, I don't give a shit! The truth's fuckin' lame, anyway."
"She had what I call the "three atrocities"—atrociously rank, atrociously filthy, atrociously repulsive. It was atrociously clear just how out of touch she was with the rest of society."
"I've never been a stickler for following a plan to the letter, ya know? If I planned everything out and knew just what was gonna happen, that'd be sooo boooring! Jeez, misundertandings sure are crazy!"
"We were the Ultimate Despair, ya know? So we never had any kind of hope, or expectations. No, I've felt despair as long as I can remember, like I never should have been born at all. When I was born, I cried tears of total despair. So that's why for us, it's not a big deal whether we die or kill! We're just those kinds of people. We can do anything! We've always been filled with despair, so when we do something, we go all the way and live without regret!"
"Killing my precious sister with my own two hands... That act is filled with so much despair, you can't help but put a "super" in front of it. It's like super super super super super despair. No, more than that... Super super super super super super super super super super super super super super super despair... It just feels...so...good... And my sister, too... In that moment of death, I think she must have felt that despair. After all, to be murdered by your own sister, and only as an example to someone else...? She must have died feeling such excruciating hopelessness... I'm so...jealous of her. Super jealous..."
"You're saying I don't compare to some lowly beast that can only kill the weak, right? So I'm hopelessly attractive? Hopelessly brilliant? Hopelessly athletic...? I'm the hopelessly perfect ultimate human?"
"Your brains are like sponges, all drippy and leaky. I already gave you a hint before!"
"Relationships, secrets, money, betrayal... These are all pretty standard motives, right? The most normal of normal, totally middle of the road! But of course those aren't the only motives that exist in this world... In fact, there are as many reasons to kill as there are people on Earth. They compel humans to kill each other, bringing despair to the world. This is what we refer to as the seed of despair! Just as water, air, and food promote growth in living things, the seed of despair also needs nourishment... And that nourishment...is hope! Despair can grow only in the presence of hope! Two sides of the same coin, divided by a razor-thin lines... Such is hope and despair!"
"Of course, that hope merely existed to be consumed by despair."
"But it's not enough. I want more distress, more despair...! I put so much effort into creaeting hope in order to feed your despair and make it grow..."
"Okey dokey! Like they say, seeing is believing! Puhuhu. I wanna see, too... See your faces sink into despair...!"
"Haahahaha! Better kick your brain in the ass, cuz it's up to that grey lump whether you live or die! "I don't remember" ain't a fuckin' excuse no more! Cuz now it's time...for the final Class Trial!"
"Come on, bitches! Remember or die!"
"The end justifies the means. Everything serves the outcome. In other words... The world has ended. That's the important thing."
"Calm down, it's okay. There's no need to panic. Every living person will be dead in hundred years anyway, so the world ending isn't that big a deal."
"I just got so fuckin' bored waiting, I couldn't help it! Even if you're wrong, eventually you'll figure it out, right? Till then, you're just goin' in circles! So no matter what you pick, you get the right answer! Pretty innovative, don't ya think? But...do you think it might be disease? Getting bored so easy, I mean. Do you think I might be sick?"
"Stop? And said with such authority. A peasant would dare challenge us, the avatar of divine punishment? You must learn your place, peasant! You are no longer the Ultimate Affluent Progeny!"
"I understand why you'd have trouble accepting it, but in the end, you can't deny the truth. And the truth is, everything is cause and effect. Deny that, and you may as well give yourself up to God."
"Puhuhu. After seeing all the evidence, do you have any choice but to acknowledge the truth? Isn't it just so desperately dark? The mystery's solved, but it's like a goddamn funeral in here! Shit man, I've never been to a funeral. Hell yes!"
"Two years of school life. How many moments of blossoming youth have you missed out on? How many fun classes? How many school events? This was your chance to build lasting friendships, right?"
"Actually, never mind. I'm bored. Explaining stuff is boring... We are bored of this world! Everyone always talks big, declaring all the great things they'll do! But then they always fizzle out... This world is just so desperately fucking boring!"
"In a way, I'm jealous of all of you. To give yourself over so completely to such stimulating despair... Yeah, so figure out the rest for yourselves! I'm sick of expositioning all this shit!"
"Puhuhu. What a terribly tragic tale... Even if you left now, there's nothing you could do to fix it!"
"I love you all so much... Once your school life here began, I thought about you constantly. It's only natural that I would...fall in love. So since I love you guys so much, I'll tell you all about it! All about the idea we came up with as the Ultimate Despair—our plan to bring despair to all mankind!"
"Despair is contagious, you know. It's almost like...a natural phenomenon. Everyone is capable of it. And now, the entire world has fallen into despair. In other words, if you see despair as the enemy, then your enemy...is the world itself!"
"If you, the collective hope of a new generation, could survive, maybe the world could have a fresh start. Yeah...the headmaster put that much fairh in you."
"Because this was so much more than a simple high school death match... Rather, it was a method to hunt down and destroy every last remaining speck of the hope in the world."
"To show the world the murders taking placing at this school, which was meant to be a symbol of hope... That was the whole point of the Ultimate Despair! When I said "climax," THAT was what I was talking about! The world watched as you fell into despair, and began to kill each other one after another... Despair is as contagious as any disease; any hope left turns to despair. Puhuhu. Isn't the power of television just amazing!?"
"They were a relentless bunch, refusing to give up on hope and trying to give up on hope and trying to force their beliefs on the world. But in the end, I was able to give them the final despair—death."
"I mean, we built up two years of memories together. You were all my treasured classmates... Sorry, that's a lie. I just figured you'd despair even more when you found out a friend had betrayed you. And that's the truth! Which is what you wanted, right? So? Does it make you feel utterly lost and hopeless? You solved the mystery but despair at truth, right!?"
"Our final desire for creating this world of despair was so we could experience one last Class Trial. If you were bold enough to solve the mystery, only to discover that the truth was utterly hopeless... ...how would you react? What would you do? See? Discovering the truth doesn't necessarily lead to a sense of hope. Truth can be full of despair, too! Like right fuckin' now!"
"A peasant begging for his life? How delightful! We've never witnessed such a travesty firsthand... But I'm sorry to say, begging doesn't work on me. All I want is despair. And there's no reason for it. And since there's no reason, there's no argument against it. There's just no understanding it. No argument, no understanding... What better definition of ultimate despair could there be!?"
"Until you see it with your own eyes, truth and falsehood overlap one another. In other words, you're not Schroedinger's cat right now. Is that what you're saying? If so, what then? Are you saying won't accept the truth until you can go outside and see for yourself!? Well you better not! You go out into that world, and you're all goners for sure! Trust me, I'm not lying about any of this!"
"I didn't kill anyone. I simply gave you a little nudge in the right direction. And that's all it took for you to start killing each other. You're nothing but bloodthirsty animals... That's why anyone was murdered here, peasant! Say what you want about hope, but we're all creatures of instinct, right? Despair comes naturally! Hell yes! That's funny as shit!"
"You certainly have a talent for passing the buck, don't you? That must be your hope, huh?"
"Yeah! You've been acting up, causing all kinds of trouble! I haaate you!"
"It's so beautiful... Your lovely faces, eroded by despair, have come together as one..."
"One person's despair is enough to seal your fate. Isn't that just the most hopeless outcome ever!? So who do you think's gonna give in? Whose despair is gonna sign your death warrant!?"
"It's time for the final vote. Everything will come to an end. Your stupid hope... And your stupid life!"
"There is no hope left in the world. When you sleep, it's on a bed of despair... The world is in despair. *You* are in despair."
"So uncool... Your stupid faces... The stupid things you've said... The stupid way you all treat each other! It's all SO uncool! SO unhip! Shut up shut up shut up shut up SHUT UP! Lame lame lame lame LAME!"
"Despair into tomorrow! Despair into your memories! Despair into nothingness."
"We came to this school two years ago, created our incredibly detailed plan... I even killed my own sister for it... To come this far, and fail at the very end...! It's the most ultimately ultimate despair! Don't you see? I was so hopelessly desperate! I was bored of the world the moment I was born! That's why I've been looking forward to this so desperately. This once-in-a-lifetime experience... It is my first and last colossal despair, here at the moment of death. To have the chance to taste of the highest grade despair—the utter failure of my dreams! Ahhh! I am so hopelessly happy right now!"
"Haha...hahahahaaahahaaa! You think I care whether I won or lost? Either way, it doesn't change a thing! Outside is only despair, inside is only despair! No matter where you go, despair awaits you!
"Ahh, stop it! Stop! I hate those faces you're making! To see those awful looks causes me nothing but pain... Fine, let me just say one last thing... If you guys wanna get all hung up on the word hope, that's no skin off my nose... But just be warned... From this point on, one despair after another will stand in your way. No matter where you run, no matter where you hide... Maybe you'll find some hope, but there is a very fine line dividing that hope from bitter despair. Knowing that, you still plan to cling to your hope? Shut up, shut up! That was a rethorical question. You interrupted my monologue! I'm almost done though, so whatever... Because it's almost punishment time, right!?"
"Stop it stop it stop it STOP IT! How many times do I have to tell you!? The act of living brings me no hope at all! All I want now is to taste that despair of death that you only get once in life. So... Don't get in my way!"
"Puhuhu... Puhuhuhu! So this is how the despair of death feels... Ahh, it's so wonderful! Even a tent of this despair... Even a hundredth...! I want every last soul on this planet to taste such despair! I want the entire world to die with that despair in its mouth! Okay, let's do this! I've reserved an extra special punishment for last! Let's give it everything we've got! It's...PUNISHMENT TIIIME!"
Bullet Time Battle:

"You suck!"
"SO uncool!"
"Whaddya want!?"
"Hope is a joke!"
"Outside is only despair!"
"Suffer from despair!"
"You're gross!"
"You're scared, aren't you!"
"Who 'are' you!?"
"You dare to stand against us!" (Queen Personality)
"Your idiocy ends here!" (Serious Personality)
"I just love despair!" (Cute Personality)
"You're unbearable!" (Monokuma Personality)
"Would you like to die?" (Smart Personality)
"Everything is pointless!" (Rock Star Personality)
"Ew! Boy cooties!" (Cute Personality)
"No..!"
"Despair into tomorrow! Despair into your memories! Despair into nothingness!" (Final Argument)
Junko means "shield" coupled with "child". Enoshima can literally mean "island of the bay", or refer to the island in the Kanagawa prefecture. 
According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Junko is the type of villain who has no sympathetic qualities nor tragic backstory to explain why she does what she does.
In Danganronpa 3, it's revealed that similar to Izuru, her supernatural analytical skills caused her constant boredom; as a result, she developed an obsession with unpredictable despair.
Fitting her unstable and changing personality, Junko has no listed likes or dislikes.
It is unknown how Ultimate Despair managed to retrieve Junko's body parts after she was crushed during her execution. It's most likely that most of the execution cutscenes are highly stylized and exaggerated.
Both Junko and Chiaki are the one of the two characters to have gone through two executions (though both of their second executions involved their AI counterpart).
One of Junko's poses (where she puts her hand in front of her face, leaving only one eye visible) is the same of DIO from JoJo's Bizarre Adventure ; in the Japanese version of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc, she also says DIO's Stand Cry "Muda muda muda!" (無駄無駄無駄), during her Bullet Time Battle.
In her haughty "Queen" personality, Junko's crown appears based on that of the King Slime from the Dragon Quest series. Notably, the first thing she says when she makes her appearance in the climax of the original Danganronpa is a direct quote of the Dragonlord from the original Dragon Quest.
According to her profilein the official Danganronpa art book, Junko wears black panties with red trim near the waistband, semi-transparent sections at the hips, and an image of Monokuma's left eye on the front. They go unseen in the game proper; due to Junko's role as the hidden mastermind of the Killing Game, Makoto is unable to have Free Time Events with her.
In the art book, Junko narrates her own student profile as herself, instead of the Monokuma persona. At the bottom of the page, the "Monokuma Room Check" (which normally shows details of the student's room in the academy) is replaced with a "Dot Pattern" section, showing sprites of Junko's appearance in School Mode that went unused.
In the Japanese version of Danganronpa 2, Junko references the series God of War by name (in Katakana: ゴッド・オブ・ウォー). In the English version, this is changed to "Knifearella", a reference to Bayonetta.
In the Japanese version, Junko and her twin sister Mukuro are both voiced by Megumi Toyoguchi.
In the English version, Amanda Céline Miller and Erin Fitzgerald both voice Junko, with each voice actor voicing different parts of Junko's personality. Fitzgerald voices "Teacher Junko", "Monokuma Junko" and "Model Junko". Miller and Fitzgerald also voice Shirokuma (Miller) and Kurokuma (Fitzgerald) respectively, who are physical avatars for Alter Ego Junko.
Miller and Fitzgerald also share the voice of Toko Fukawa (with Miller voicing Toko and Fitzgerald voicing Genocide Jack), and Seiko Kimura (Miller voices her as a child and Fitzgerald voices her as a Hope's Peak student and Future Foundation member.
Junko was named the "Most popular game character for cosplay" in the Guinness World Records Gamer's ion (2018)

Ishimaru's Grandfather in the mangaDuring Kiyotaka's early life, his grandfather, Toranosuke Ishimaru, was once Prime Minister of Japan; a title Kiyotaka believed he gained through his own natural genius rather than any hard work.
After only a few months in office, the public opinion of Toranosuke changed from high praise to widespread criticism due to a disastrous scandal, and he was forced to step down. After that, his business collapsed and the Ishimaru Family was left mistrusted and in huge debts which Kiyotaka has stated "Still have not been paid off, and continue to trouble my family to this day" and "My family is middle-class... No, we are below even that..." His family name shamed, Kiyotaka's grandfather allegedly spent the last years of his life in shamed silence.

Kiyotaka gained a deep resentment for his grandfather and the label of "genius" that was associated with him, though he simultaneously seemed to feel sorry for him and believed that his grandfather's tragedy was an important lesson for him. He swore to restore honor to his family name by gaining his success through hard work rather than natural talent, sacrificing hobbies and most of social interaction for study sessions and good grades, even going as far to tell Makoto he never played video games or watched TV due to his dedication. Because of this, his social skills suffered and he didn't have any friends. He was a model student in his middle school, known for participating in its morals committee (disciplinary committee in the original Japanese game). He later attended Kaiseidan High School.

A few years after his grandfather died, he was scouted to attend Hope's Peak Academy under the title Ultimate Moral Compass as a part of Class 78th.

Prior To The 
The 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc #11
Taka, Leon, Mondo, ChihiroAfter a one year of peaceful school days, The Tragedy occurred. During The Tragedy, Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. The students of Class 78th agreed to his plan, and they sealed the building together. Kiyotaka helped Leon Kuwata in sheltering the windows by slightly struggling to hold up the steel plate while Leon screwed it in. The students lived peacefully inside the school building for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.
Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa 1 CG - Students at the School EntranceKiyotaka was among those who were chosen to attend Hope's Peak Academy as part of Class 78th. Class 78th ended up being trapped inside the school, not knowing at the time that they had already been memory-wiped of their two years of school life together. Kiyotaka was around 19 years old, though he believed he was only 17 because of the memory loss.
When Makoto Naegi entered the main hall after waking up in a classroom, Kiyotaka scolded him for being so late and stated he'll report his late arrival to school officials, only dropping it when Junko Enoshima stopped him. Later when Makoto introduced himself, Kiyotaka complimented Makoto's name, and stated that he should live up to it by behaving and acting vigilantly.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Cafeteria Meeting (Chapter 1)After Monokuma first appeared to make his announcement about the Killing School Life, Kiyotaka assigned himself as a de-facto leader to the students and organized the morning meeting where the students would meet in the cafeteria to discuss trying to escape the school.
Stamina Contest

Danganronpa 1 CG - Mondo Owada and Kiyotaka Ishimaru sauna contestThe negative relationship between Kiyotaka and Mondo Owada came to a head in a "Stamina Contest" between the two of them after arguments. The Stamina Contest was in the sauna, and who could of survived the longest in it as the heat was turned up. Makoto was set to judge, only to be chased away and leaving the pair alone for the night.

Danganronpa the Animation (Episode 04) - Male Bonding (042)The next day, animosity now put aside, Kiyotaka and Mondo became very close, even calling each other "brother" to indicate their sudden deep friendship. Makoto tries to bring up their previous rivalry, only to be shut down by Mondo, and Kiyotaka using his "forget-me-beam".
Becoming "Kiyondo"

Ishimaru traumatizedIn the Class Trial of Chihiro's murder, Kiyotaka became horrified when Mondo was identified as the culprit by Makoto. He refused to believe it and even came to Mondo's defense. This proved fruitless as Mondo was indeed revealed as the Blackened, and when it came time to vote, he did not vote for Mondo and instead voted for himself. Afterwards, he broke down into tears and wailed in despair over losing his "bro".
The culmination of the second trial traumatized Kiyotaka to a point that he was rendered completely mute and near-catatonic, not responding to anyone.

After he received news about Alter Ego (whom he mistook as Chihiro Fujisaki's spirit) and their discovery from the other remaining students, he immediately went to Makoto's room and asked him to guide him to Alter Ego, since he wanted to apologize to Chihiro for what Mondo had done.

Ishida in animeWhen Kiyotaka and Alter Ego finally met, Alter Ego tried to console Kiyotaka by mimicking Mondo's voice, personality, and changing their avatar to Mondo's face. Because of the shock of seeing his "bro" alive again, Kiyotaka's grief manifests into a merge of his own personality, and Mondo's personality, and became "Kiyondo".
He then became very overprotective of Alter Ego, thinking they were his "bro" Mondo, and because of this he began a sudden bitter rivalry with Hifumi Yamada for the artificial intelligence's attention, which accumulated into Kiyotaka's eventual fate.

Kiyotaka's Fate

Danganronpa 1 Chapter 3 Body Discovery (1)
Danganronpa 1 Chapter 3 Body Discovery (1)

Kiyotaka was manipulated into going into the Art Storage Room with a claim of an escape route found in the school by Hifumi, who in turn was manipulated by Celestia Ludenberg, as a part of a murder ploy set up by her. He was bludgeoned in the back of the head by Hifumi with Justice Hammer #4, killing him instantly.
Post-Killing School 
Makoto's 
Main Article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc #11.
Kuwata and Ishimaru's deathKiyotaka is seen alongside his deceased classmates in Makoto's hallucination. He is first standing next to Celestia Ludenberg, which then morphs into him bleeding from the head reflecting how he, along with the other deceased members of the 78th Class, had died.

Creation and 
Kiyotaka Ishimaru Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
Kiyotaka was first set up as a hot-blooded exceptional student. His role as a hall monitor came later, but the basic plan stayed the same.

The character designer, Rui Komatsuzaki, was asked to depict him as "enthusiastic to the point of being mad", with black googly round eyes. At first, Kiyotaka's hair was longer and stuck up. In order to highlight his madness, his design was made military-based, and he was given a school uniform and short hair. Slowly, he began to look much more like a soldier.

Since Kiyotaka is a character rich in expression, Komatsuzaki had fun drawing the many face patterns his sprites required, he describes it as:

"Ishimaru overreacts to everything, but more than anything I tried giving everything I had when drawing his crying expressions."
In an interview with Kazutaka Kodaka, creator and writer of the Danganronpa series, it was stated that they were originally planning to elaborate on Kiyotaka's middle school life but "it looked like it [was] going to turn dark, [so] we stopped".

Kiyotaka's birthday, August 31, is the last day of summer vacation before the continuation of the school year in Japan, and the beginning of the new school year in many countries around the world - somewhat fitting Kiyotaka's unmatched dedication to his studies.


The kanji for "Kiyotaka" (清多夏) translates into "a myriad pure summers". The kanji for "Ishimaru" (石丸) is composed of the kanji characters 石 ishi - stone, and 丸 maru, which among other things means both "circle" and "perfection". The last name could be meant to reflect Kiyotaka's stern personality, his perfectionism and his strong sense of justice.

In the English localization, he has a shortened version of his name as a nickname: "Taka".

The name "Ishida" (石田), which he takes after "fusing" with Mondo's soul, comes from the first kanji from Kiyotaka's family name (石) and last kanji from Mondo's family name (田).

In the English localization, his name is changed to "Kiyondo" which combines Kiyotaka and Mondo's first names instead of family names without use of any kanji from either names.

Alternate 
Sonia-Nevermind-Pixel-for-Jpn-Template	The section below is based on non-localized content only available in Japanese.
As such, this information is based on fan-contributed translation.

In the Danganronpa Visual Fanbook, there is a description of executions for all of the characters who did not have one. Kiyotaka's execution is called Prime Minister Ishimaru Kiyotaka's Inaugural Parade and described as the following:

"Ishimaru sits on a vehicle and answers people's cheers in the middle of a huge, gorgeous parade. The crowd has posters that say things such as "Hooray for Prime Minister Ishimaru". In the next moment, Monokuma pops up resembling Golgo 13 and kills him with a shot through the heart."
The Danganronpa 3 box set included a feature detailing an alternate ending of Danganronpa called Danganronpa Another End which ultimately never made it out of the development phase. In this ending, all of the students escape, at the cost of giving up their talent forever. In Kiyotaka's ending, he claims he will become a farmer, and attempt to lead his country from an "agricultural viewpoint".

Kiyotaka also escapes Hope's Peak alive before the Killing Game begins, with the rest of his classmates, in the novel Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc IF.


Kiyotaka has short, spiky black hair, and very large matching eyebrows. He has intense red eyes. In some official art, he is shown to be very muscular.
He wears a white uniform with five golden buttons on each sleeve and six on his chest, a red and gold medal on his chest, a red armband with the kanji (風紀 fūki) meaning "Public Morals", and knee-high black lace-up boots.

The kanji character adorning the lapel of his shirt, 参, actually represents a verb read as 参る mairu which means either "to be defeated", "to be annoyed", "to be madly in love" or "to visit a shrine/grave".

DR1 Present 101 Kiyotaka's UndergarmentsHe wears pure white briefs, which were his grandfather's favorite brand as well, branded from a Japanese boy's heart's birthplace of Gunyo. They symbolize cleansing and making a boy into a man.
As Kiyondo, his appearance is mostly the same but his hair is pure white and his eyes have a red glowing aura to them.




Befitting of the Ultimate Moral Compass, Kiyotaka is righteous and values order and rules above all else. He takes his role as a student very seriously, shown when he gets upset that there are currently no classes going on during the Killing School Life. He also states he has 10 sets of his uniform so he never runs out and so he is able to wear one every day of the year, even on holidays or days off from school. He is shown to be very polite and respectful, as in original Japanese release, he addresses people, even girls with "-kun" honorifics.

Because of his grandfather's tragedy, he considers effort most important and he is a hard worker, believing that one can achieve anything through it. He also considers genius' fate a tragedy and he considers geniuses his enemies, because they don't understand the true value of effort. He also believes that people who are easily provoked to violence are cowards. Described as "enthusiastic to the point of being mad", Kiyotaka believes that your every action must have a purpose and he absolutely hates wasting time.

Fitting his talent, Kiyotaka often takes up and views himself as a leader, as seen when he organizes the morning meeting for the other students. However, he often isn't taken very seriously—due to his extreme dedication to studying and proper conduct, he could not even hold a "normal" conversation with another person, which becomes clear very soon if someone spends free time with him. Furthermore, he is very expressive and intense in his manner of speech, and is almost constantly shouting. Due to his lack of social skills, he often bursts out the first thing that comes to his mind and forces his values and beliefs on others, which he's aware of and feels guilty about. Possibly because of the lack of social interaction in his life, he can also be insensitive toward another at times, as evidenced in the beginning of Chapter 2, when he said that Makoto would not feel too comfortable sleeping in the same room with Sayaka Maizono's corpse.

Nevertheless, Kiyotaka truly cares about his classmates. He is willing to take pragmatic approaches to avoid murder, such as offering to have everyone, starting with himself, reveal their secrets to avoid Monokuma's second incentive and naively thinking during the first trial the killer would raise their hand and reveal themself to avoid said trial.

Though he acts confidently and is quick to take the role of leadership, he suffers from low-self esteem at times and he is quite sensitive, sometimes crying very easily if he is shocked or touched by something. Inside, he wishes he could make friends and have someone to talk to, but he feels that he might be a nuisance to others, as he is stated to overreact to everything. Some of his other weaknesses appear to be his slight naivety and slow-wittedness, as he sometimes figures things out slower than the most other students and tricking him seems to be rather easy.

One of his unique traits is also his belief that "when the body is naked, so is the soul", meaning that showing each other their naked bodies helps two men form a mutual trust.Overall, Kiyotaka values bonds between men, and during his Free Time Event he asks Makoto to bathe with him in an attempt to become closer friends with him.

In the end, the death of his first and best friend, Mondo, renders him in a state of shock and he becomes almost completely speechless and unresponsive. After adopting the personality of Kiyondo, he becomes more aggressive and very protective of Alter Ego, whom he sees as his Bro. He uses more aggressive language, though refuses to use vulgar language (though he does so in the Japanese version). However, he still sees himself as the Ultimate Moral Compass, mentioning himself that he wouldn't perform criminal activities.


Ultimate Moral 
Danganronpa 1 Kiyotaka Ishimaru English Game IntroductionAs the Ultimate Moral Compass, Kiyotaka has a strong sense of morality and duty. Even during the Killing School Life he doesn't forget his rigorous beliefs about right and wrong. Kiyotaka often takes up the role of a leader, and tries his best to lead his fellow students on the right path, much to their annoyance.
In other 
Kiyotaka's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

Ultimate Moral Compass
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「風紀委員」	Super High School Level Public Morals Committee Member
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"風紀股長"	Super High School Level Discipline Monitor
中文超高校级的"风纪股长"	Super High School Level Discipline Monitor(DRtA)
Français Le Compas Moral Ultime	Ultimate Moral Compass (DRV3)
DeutschSuper-Flur-Aufseher	Super Hall-Monitor (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Addetto Disciplinare Liceale	Super High School Level Discipline Monitor(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Prefecto	Super High School Student Level: Prefect (DRtA)
Differences Between 
In the original Japanese version of the game, Kiyotaka's title is "Super High School Level Public Morals Committee Member" (超高校級の「風紀委員」). The "public morals committee", also known as the "disciplinary committee", is a student committee dedicated to the preservation of a proper learning atmosphere and enforcement of the rules around the school (two duties Kiyotaka is very dedicated to fulfilling) that is commonplace in Japanese high schools. It is apparently characteristic for disciplinary committee members to wear uniform armbands.

Due to the concept of disciplinary committees being relatively obscure in North America and Europe, the official English translation of the game came to translate Kiyotaka's title metaphorically as "Moral Compass".


Family:
Toranosuke 
Kiyotaka considers his grandfather someone he both hates and respects. He is bitter towards him, but also seems to pity him and feels that his grandfather's tragedy taught him an important lesson. Because of this, one of Kiyotaka's main goals in his life is to surpass his grandfather and reach greater accomplishments than anything he ever did, with pure effort rather than "genius".

By the time Kiyotaka attended Hope's Peak Academy, his grandfather had passed away a few years earlier.

Takaaki 
Not much is known about Kiyotaka's relationship with his father Takaaki Ishimaru, however he became his "Captive" in Monokuma's first motive, signifying he is the closest person to him.

Class 78th:
Mondo 
At the beginning of the Killing School Life, Mondo and Kiyotaka started off with a strong dislike for each other due to conflicting personalities and beliefs. Their relationship remained like that until it came to a head with a "Stamina Contest", where they competed in who could last the longest in a sauna, judged by Makoto. The next day after the competition they suddenly seemed the best of friends, even calling each other "bro" and becoming very physically affectionate.

They became so close that Kiyotaka refused to believe Mondo had murdered Chihiro, and even voted himself the Blackened rather than voting Mondo. After Mondo's execution Kiyotaka was sent into a state of non-responsiveness, and eventually due to his grief Kiyotaka took on Mondo's personality, becoming "Kiyondo Ishida" indicating even after death Kiyotaka still felt a deep bond with Mondo.

Many pieces of official art heavily imply that the two were very close during their school years at Hope's Peak as well, with Chihiro often spending time with them.

Hifumi 
Kiyotaka didn't have any special interest or relationship with Hifumi until the discovery of Alter Ego, which caused a sudden intense rivalry between himself and Hifumi for the artificial intelligence's attention due Kiyotaka (or as he was calling himself Kiyondo) viewed Alter Ego as his deceased "Bro", Mondo, and Hifumi,who had fallen in love with them. This caused the two of them to clash frequently.

Chihiro 
Kiyotaka took it upon himself to apologize to "Chihiro's ghost" (Alter Ego) in lieu of Mondo being executed in the previous trial for Chihiro's murder, indicating while they didn't have any sort of notable relationship, Kiyotaka still saw Chihiro in a friendly light.

Official art implies that he was close with Kiyotaka and Mondo during their school years.

Makoto 
Kiyotaka seems to regard Makoto in a friendly manner, or at least respectfully as a fellow classmate and student. In Kiyotaka's Free Time Events, their relationship deepens when Makoto manages to help Kiyotaka and his social skills with making friends, to which Kiyotaka responds by giving him the title of "Professor", much to Makoto's discomfort. Eventually Kiyotaka comes to call Makoto a friend, and even entrust him with the knowledge of his grandfather, Toranosuke Ishimaru, and why he hates geniuses.

"Bro":
Alter 
After Alter Ego's discovery, Kiyotaka becomes intensely overprotective over them, to the point he begins a rivalry with Hifumi because he views Alter Ego as his deceased "Bro", Mondo.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Kiyotaka Ishimaru & School Mode/Kiyotaka Ishimaru
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Kiyotaka in order to learn more about him. If he gives Kiyotaka a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Kiyotaka will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Kiyotaka's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

12345Dead
Kiyotaka Ishimaru Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Relating to your friends	Seriously, just for fun	Actually, it IS studying
But it's a raincoat	But it's a makeshift hardhat	But it's a flashlight
Greece	Japan	India
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 24 Macs Gloves DR1 Present 28 Red Scarf DR1 Present 43 Adorable Reactions Collection DR1 Present 88 Chin Drill

Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Kiyotaka grants the following skills:

Attentive Influence	Increases your Maximum Influence by 2. Effective during the Class Trial.	2 SP
Steel Patience	Reduces damage to the Influence Gauge when you miss. Effective during the Nonstop Debate, the Hangman's Gambit, the Bullet Time Battle, and the Closing Argument.	3 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Kiyotaka IshimaruMakoto is able to see inside Kiyotaka's dorm room during Free Time events. The most prominent items in Kiyotaka's room are his collection of dictionaries and reference books. On his walls are pieces of calligraphy and a pi chart. He has an ironing board set up, as Kiyotaka likes to iron his uniform every day. He also has a practice Kendo sword.

DR1ExtraNovel
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"Just a moment! There's something else we must address! Makoto! Your tardiness is unacceptable! Surely you were aware the meeting was to start at 8 a.m. sharp! To be late on your first day is unspeakable! I must report you, and you must accept your due punishment!"
"Jeez, you guys! How long do you plan to waste our valuable time with this ridiculous back-and-forth!? Self-introductions are for introducing yourself, not bumbling through a bunch of idle chit-chat!"
"I'm Kiyotaka Ishimaru. I believe in bold simplicity! Let's work together on our educational crusade!"
"Anyway, you can call me Taka. You said your name was Makoto Naegi, right? That's a good name, a strong name! You should thank your parents for giving you such an excellent name. And to keep that name from losing its value, you must devote yourself every single day! Life is worth putting every ounce of effort into it! Right? Right!"
"A lie, is what it is. All these ridiculous things we've heard... This all has to be fake!"
Chapter 1:

"R-Right... She's right! Sometimes, even if you're nervous or afraid, you just have to step forward! To forget such a simple fact... I can't forgive myself. Please, someone hit me! I can't forgive myself! Somebody hit me! Punish me!"
"True. We need to find out where exactly we are. Is there any way out? What about food and supplies? There are tons of questions we need to answer!"
"Ah, Makoto! Sayaka! So you two got here first, huh? Too bad... I was sure I'd beat everyone here. I guess that just means I don't have enough fighting spirit yet! Well I won't give up! Next time, I swear I'll win no matter what it takes! Justice shall always prevail!"
"The sooner we find out what's going on, the sooner we get out of here!"
"Darn it, Kyoko! You're really going to be late like this on the first day of school!? Not only is she late, she didn't tell anyone she would be late! A most unbecoming personality trait..."
"Well what do you want me to do!? Punctuality is everything!"
"Yes, morning greetings are quite a delight! Such an energizing way to start the day! Now then, let's make sure we both do our very best throughout the day!" (to Makoto)
"No matter how intensely the stormy seas may batter me, I will not fall as long as my feet are firmly planted! ...You agree, right? And if you can't do it alone, just find someone to support you, and you can support them back! That's how you can overcome any storm!"
"I was thinking about it last night, and...I decided we all need to really come together. And that was when I realized... Every morning from now on, after the morning announcement, everyone should have breakfast together! And now is the beginning of that fateful day! Please head to the dining hall at your earliest convenience! That's all for now! I have to go let everyone else know the good news!"
"Everyone, thank you for making time in your busy schedules to come together. I know I already mentioned this earlier, but... In order to get out of here, it is essential that we all cooperate with each other. And the first step is this breakfast meeting, to allow us to become friends and build trust! So from now on, let's all meet here in the dining hall every morning after the morning announcement! Now then, let's eat!"
"Certainly is not a conern right now! I'll allow whatever remarks you may have!"
"Don't put those awful thoughts in our head! That's exactly what they *want* us to do!"
"Let's not jump to conclusions just yet! Save that for the Class Trial! There we can all reveal the details of Makoto's crime!"
"Relax! I haven't decided 100% that you're the culprit just yet!"
"Okay then...everyone close your eyes, and whoever did it, raise your hand!"
"It IS a problem! A boy and a girl spending the night together!? It's...it's...unwholesome!" (Mistaking Sakura as a guy)
Chapter 2:

"More like a staple food source! Now let's get moving!"
"But it's also of utmost importance to double-check the areas we already know about, just in case! Aren't I so clever to think of that!? I really impress myself sometimes."
"An army marches on its stomach, as they say! We must all eat! Eat until there's nothing left to eat! Anyway, now is no time to get discouraged. We must head elsewhere to continue our search!"
"He's right! In this situation, there's nothing scarier than when an ally turns loose cannon! It's just like when we were kids, and someone would go crazy at sports day or whatever!"
"You *are* a coward! That's why you turn to violence to solve your problems! That's why you can't do what society asks of you, why you walk around dressed like that! You've already lost to yourself, but you're such a coward you don't even realize it!"
"He'll be done in a matter of minutes, anyway. People like him are, without exception, all talk!"
"Say wh-whatever you want...I'm still totally...good to go! In fact, I'm starting to feel...kinda cold!"
"In a true competition...there's no such thing as a tie! You win, or you lose. That's...the only thing that matters!"
"Come tomorrow morning... ...you'll fall down in front of me...down on your knees. I'll show you where to do it...!"
"Forget her, bro. A girl like her just doesn't get our manly bond! Friendship between men is stronger than blood! A woman could never understand!"
"No, bro, you mustn't! Your body is a temple, given to you by your loving parents!"
"Yeah, don't ask stupid questions! What matters is that we both took apart in it together!" (to Makoto)
"I don't know what you've got planned, but we're not going to kill each other anymore! No matter what you do, I swear to God we won't!"
"He's right! Your plan is doomed to fail! No one's gonna murder someone for this kind of thing!"
"Good news, everyone! I have a brilliant idea! Why don't we all just confess the secrets in those envelopes right here and now!? If we do that, any and all motive for murder will vanish! That's pretty smart, right!?"
"Having our secrets exposed isn't going to be fun, but it's not like we're gonna die cuz of it! So, you know, um... Don't do anything hasty!"
"Oh... Uh, okay, sorry. I know it's gonna be tough, but..."
"Maybe we should have confessed our embarrassing secrets after all..! Dammit! I'm sorry, Chihiro... It's all because I wasn't strong enough!"
"I don't know why the killer did what they did, but... I'm sure it'll work itself out! Justice always prevails! Right, bro!?"
"I have no idea what's going on anymore...! Could such a heinous villain really be innocent!?"
"He kept calling this is a game, right? So he'd be totally willing to do something like this to "win"!"
"Hey, don't just move on without permission!"
"Do you not have a mind of your own!?"
"The more I hear you talk, the more I don't understand! I mean, you guys trusted each other, right!?"
Chapter 3:

"If I can go back to the past...then I can... This time I'll stop Mondo for sure—!"
"It's starting to sink in... The way a bucketful of water sinks into a bone-dry sponge... Those words... Deep within my heart...! They're inside of me! Uwaaaaaaaaaaaahhh!"
As Kiyondo:

"Who the fudge is Taka!? Hey, don't worry about it! Guess I caused kind of a scene, huh? Shoot, man... I'm...a new me... Hraaah! I'm totally stuffed with fighting spirit now! Ya dumbbutt! I AM calm! And don't call me Taka! That's...that's not my name anymore... I'm...me! I! Am! Meeeeeee!"
"Who the hell's Taka!? Listen up! I'm me! Got it!? Don't bullcrap me! Isn't it obvious!? I'm Kiyotaka AND Mondo. So, like...Kiyondo, I guess... I'm gonna stick a banana up your tailpipe!"
"Alter Ego! He's an exact copy of the one who gave me my soul back! And I'm not gonna let anyone else have him ever again! Fudgin' idiot!"
"Well me and HIM have been melded together in the white-hot heat of FRIENDSHIP! Moron! Talk down to me and I'll ram my fist right into al of your vital points!"
"Who's got a problem with who my friends are!? We're gonna have a little CHAT!"
"Hey! You! How long were you gonna keep us waiting!? It's almost 10 o'clock, you know that!? Bedtime for all the good little boys and girls!"
"You're the suspicious one here! You're nothin' but a big, jiggling sack of fat!"
"How many times do they hafta kill bro before they're happy...? I'll beg, I'll scrape my head across the ground. Just please give him back...!"
"That doesn't matter. Nothing...nothing else matters... No matter what it takes, I'm gonna get him back! That's my promise as a man!"
"Who gives a crap about "effective"!? We're talkin' about our FEELINGS here!"
List of 
GamesAnimeLight NovelsMangaStage Plays
DISTRUST (Scrapped)
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa: Unlimited Battle

Kiyotaka is interested in kendoka. He has a practice sword in his room and he is seen using one in an official art piece.
Kiyotaka's former high school, Kaiseidan High School (開成灘高校), is a reference to two real-world schools that are two of Japan's top academic schools: 開成高校 (Kaisei Koukou) and 灘高校 (Nada Koukou). The Kanji 開成 (Kaisei) and 灘 (Nada) are combined to make 開成灘 (Kaiseidan).
Kiyotaka's English voice actor Sean Chiplock is also the voice of Monotaro in the English version of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.
Kiyotaka was voted the third most popular character in the Japanese fandom.

Kyoko is around 19 years old in the first game, though she believed herself to be 17 because of the memory loss. In Danganronpa Kirigiri she was 13 years old. By the end of Danganronpa 3, she is a few years older and in her early twenties, around 21 at least.

She is a relatively tall young woman, with purple eyes and a pale complexion. She wears her lavender hair down and with a braid on the side, tied with a black ribbon. Her outfit consists of a dark purple collared jacket over a white blouse and brown tie, along with a black short skirt and heeled knee-high boots. She always wears her custom-made black gloves to conceal the burn marks on her hands that she had received back when she was an amateur detective.

In Danganronpa 3, she wears her hair back in a pony-tail with two strands of hair loose that go down the front of her body. She wears a greenish jacket, and wears her gloves still. Her shirt is a white blouse. She has a brown belt, holding up a dull purple short skirt. Around her left leg she wears a brown satchel. Her shoes are boots that are only a bit above her ankle, but they are also heeled, like her old ones. After she begun to work for new Hope's Peak Academy, she wore a dark grayish cerise jacket, a white blouse and a dull purple short skirt.

In Side: Hope, Kyoko returns to her original hairstyle and dons a dark red suit along with a skirt of the same color.


Kyoko is a stoic and mysterious girl who tends to hide her feelings. She has a calm demeanor and tends to be completely unfazed by most of the events that occur, even at the sight of a dead body. During the beginning of the game, Kyoko often keeps her distance from the other students while investigating. Prior to the investigation to find the way out with no casualties, Kyoko doesn't seem to cooperate with the other students and does most of the investigating by herself. She plays major roles in solving mysteries of the culprits in Class Trials, and is also one of very few students that see things objectively and doesn't jump to conclusions in the trial, making her a valuable ally to Makoto.

Kyoko is very sensitive regarding the subject about the Hope's Peak Academy's headmaster (who later is revealed to be her own father), going as far as to even lose her cool and react with anger when Alter Ego mentioned the possibility of him being the mastermind. She also doesn't like it when people keep secrets from her, as Makoto finds out.

Behind Kyoko's stone cold personality, she seems to easily get emotionally upset, which is masked by her strong will. Even under calm situations, she sometimes lets her emotions get the best of her as shown when Alter Ego mentions her father, the former headmaster, and when Makoto refuses to tell her about Sakura Ogami's odd rivalry with Monokuma (assumed that Makoto suspected Sakura's betrayal). Furthermore, there are some moments that cause her to be visibly surprised, and she also blushes at Makoto during some rare situations. She appears to grow fond of him during the game, as she does show him her hands, after explaining that she only shows them to people she considers her family. During her Free Time Events, Kyoko says that her emotions work fine but she deliberately hides them to make herself really hard to read, but also to give others a calm and composed person to lean on.

As seen in Danganronpa 3, Kyoko has changed quite a bit, with Kazutaka Kodaka considering her development one of his favorite parts in the anime.She has become a lot more considerate of her friends and her demeanor is friendlier in their company. She is seen smiling at them and sharing physical contact, like hugging and holding hands (even taking her gloves off while holding hands with Makoto), and she trusts her friends very much. When she's with anyone but them, though, she's still very expressionless and reserved. She is also a bit sharp and annoyed in Koichi Kizakura's company. Being his boss, she is very protective of Makoto, but also admires him greatly.

In Danganronpa Kirigiri, it is revealed that many of Kyoko's emotional issues are caused by the way her grandfather raised her according to the strict family traditions. The family tradition is to take no sides in order to remain as neutral as possible, because the truth has no bias, though this tradition started during a time when being a detective was a more sacred occupation. Fuhito also refused to let Kyoko see her dying mother and even appeared to encourage Kyoko to dislike her father, as he believed that detective work comes before anything else, even a death of a family member. Notably, this was the one family tradition Kyoko didn't fully agree with. Fuhito enforced the idea that her entire sense of self is wrapped up in being a detective, giving the young girl some identity issues. He was also strictly overprotective of her, ordering her to not move outside after dark, forbid her from having a cell phone and always wanted to know what she is doing.


Ultimate Detective 
Danganronpa 1 Kyoko Kirigiri English Game IntroductionSince she was a child, Kyoko has been trained as a detective by her grandfather, Fuhito. She was registered as an official detective at age 13 and her DSC number is 919. Befitting the Ultimate Detective, Kyoko is very good at analyzing clues. Kyoko can be seen as able to find the good in people's motives: for example, after the first trial (Sayaka Maizono's death), she goes to Makoto's room to tell him that she thinks that in the end, Sayaka actually wanted to make sure he didn't get the blame for her death, which is why she wrote "11037" on the wall. Another example is in the second school trial, where she points out that the broken ID card is actually Chihiro Fujisaki's. Kyoko says that Mondo Owada broke it to protect Chihiro's secret.
In other 
Kyoko's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

Ultimate Detective
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「探偵」	Super High School Level Detective
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"偵探"	Super High School Level Detective
中文超高中级的"侦探"	Super High School Level Detective(DRtA)
FrançaisLe Détective Ultime	Ultimate Detective (DRV3)
DeutschSuper-Detektivin	Super Detective (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Investigatrice Liceale	Super High School Level Investigator(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Detective	Super High School Student Level: Detective (DRtA)


Kyoko comes from a family of famous detectives. Her father, Jin Kirigiri, wasn't interested in being a detective, and he was kicked out of the family by his father Fuhito Kirigiri before Kyoko was even born.

Some time afterwards, Jin married a woman from Uzuchi family and they had Kyoko. It appears that when she was very young, she and her father spent some time with Jin's close friend Koichi Kizakura. After learning about her existence, Fuhito invited Jin back to the family solely because he wanted to make the girl his heir. He begun a strict training to make Kyoko a true detective, though Jin still very much disliked his father. When Kyoko was only 7 years old, her mother turned ill and was hospitalized when Kyoko and Fuhito were doing detective work abroad. Jin tried to contact them, but Fuhito refused to aid his family and didn't even let Kyoko see her dying mother, because to Fuhito being a detective was more important than anything else. Kyoko's mother then died, with Kyoko's last memories of her being "a white face floating above a hospital bed". Absolutely furious with his father, Jin left the family, and Fuhito encouraged Kyoko to hate him by claiming that Jin only used her mother's death as an excuse to leave the family and pursue her own dreams.

Kyoko became very close with her grandfather, Fuhito, who raised her and taught her all she currently knows in the detective business, and he protected her from anything he deemed a threat. However, Fuhito was also shown to be extremely strict in his wish to make Kyoko a perfect heir and a detective, even causing the young girl some emotional issues as Fuhito wanted her to be a detective above everything else.

Danganronpa 
Kyoko, along with Yui Samidare, is the protagonist of the light novel Danganronpa Kirigiri.

In the novel, a 13-year-old Kyoko and 16-year-old Yui solve a case called "The Sirius Astronomical Observatory Murder Case". Her DSC number is 919.

Prior to the Tragedy 
Even though her family kept their talent out of the spotlight, Kyoko publicly touted her abilities so that the Hope's Peak recruiters would notice her. She attended Hope's Peak Academy's Class 78th as the Ultimate Detective.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak 
A picture of a young Kyoko and her father, Jin can be seen on his table in the Principal's Office.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Kyoko's picture can be briefly seen on the pile of student registration forms that her father places on his desk, along with Kiyotaka Ishimaru, Celestia Ludenberg, and Aoi Asahina.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Kyoko is seen briefly in the episode, picking out some tools with Aoi as the rest of the students of the Class 78th continue sealing the old school building, which is later used by Junko where the Killing School Life occurred.

Danganronpa 
Volume 1
Chapters 13-15
While attending Hope's Peak, Kyoko did investigations for her father and the Hope's Peak Academy Steering Committee. She tried to investigate Izuru Kamukura and The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy.

One night, a month after the incident, she plans on meeting one of the Steering Committee's members on the school's eastern quarter's courtyard to ask him questions directly. When she first contacted the man, he coldly refused to meet her, insisting that it wasn’t necessary. But once she'd procured documents concerning shady deals in his past, she found him much more open to the suggestion.

The man is late for a few minutes. As he is annoyedly about to ask why Kyoko called him, he is suddenly crushed and hit directly on the head by a falling school desk, killing him. Then, several more desks fall down, hiding the body. Kyoko notices a human figure standing atop the school building. It's Mukuro Ikusaba disguised as Junko, though Kyoko cannot tell. She tries to target Kyoko as well, but she avoids the attack and goes inside the building. She can't find the culprit and soon the body disappears as well. She decides to call her father and then goes to see him to tell him what happened. They talk about Izuru Kamukura and she tells her father to warn the Steering Committee. As Kyoko leaves, Jin tells her to be careful.

Volume 2
Chapters 8-9
Kyoko enters Yasuke Matsuda's Neuroscience Laboratory, looking for him. However, she only finds Ryōko Otonashi sleeping on the bed. She understands she is the amnesiac person of the rumors who has received treatment in the lab.

Kyoko investigates the room and finds a hidden storage space under the bed. She finds clothes which belonged to a deceased Steering Committee member, and she immediately understands that Yasuke is connected to the murders. She is also suspicious of him considering the murder of Sōshun Murasame.

Kyoko's investigation is interrupted when Ryōko wakes up on the bed above her. Ryōko hears the detective under the bed, assuming that she is Yasuke. Kyoko gets up and mentions that the rumors seem to be true. Ryōko doesn't understand what she means and Kyoko clarifies that Ryōko must be the amnesiac who has been having treatments. Kyoko introduces herself and when she mentions Yasuke, Ryōko asks her where he is, but she doesn't know.

Kyoko says she is looking for Yasuke as well, as she needs some information. Since Ryōko assumed Kyoko was Yasuke at first, the detective asks if he has a habit of being under the bed. Ryōko answers honestly that Yasuke told her it helps him concentrate when he is frustrated, but Kyoko says this is certainly a lie. She shows Ryōko that the bed is actually hiding a secret room. She tells Ryōko that she believes Yasuke is involved in the murder of the Steering Committee members. Ryōko tells her he would never kill anyone, but Kyoko answers she said he was involved, not that he has murdered. She then mentions the murder of Soshun Muramase, which was disguised as a suicide. Kyoko says that most likely Yasuke murdered Soshun. Hearing this makes Ryōko feel intense anxiety and she doesn't understand anything anymore. Ryōko starts to scream that it has nothing to do with her.

Suddenly, one of the Yosshiki Madarai breaks through the door.

Chapter 10
The fourth brother Yosshiki confronts Ryōko and Kyoko in Yasuke's lab. Ryōko is confused about how many times she's seen Madarai get beaten up, and Yosshiki claims once again that he, "Isshiki", is immortal. However, Kyoko calls out that Isshiki Madarai's "immortality" is apparently just a ruse, much to Yosshiki's surprise. The Brothers then choose to reveal their secret when the fifth Brother Sasshiki appears. Kyoko speaks of how the Madarai Brothers really look just like one, and the sixth Brother Rosshiki soon appears to outnumber and beat up Ryōko and Kyoko.

Ryōko is pushed out of the lab into the hallway and she is pursued by four of the Brothers, with Rosshiki remained behind in a fight with Kyoko. After Mukuro helps Ryōko, she goes to help Kyoko and kills the last brother.

During the 
Kyoko lived in the Academy for around one year until The Tragedy occurred. During The Tragedy, Jin planned to seal the school building and let the students live in the Academy forever in order to protect them from the destruction. Kyoko and the rest of the class agreed to his plan, and they sealed the building together and lived peacefully inside it for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.

The true Ultimate Despair took away the Class 78th's school memories so they could participate in the Killing School Life. Unlike the others, Kyoko forgot her talent.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy 
Prologue - Welcome to 
When Makoto attempted to introduce himself to Kyoko and asked her name, she was very secretive. She didn't reveal her talent, questioning why she should tell him. After Makoto stated she didn't have to reveal anything about herself, she said she won't, thus ending the conversation. Later, when Mondo Owada threatened Monokuma in the gymnasium, Kyoko was the only one who realized that the robotic, plush teddy bear was about to explode and told him to throw it. The Ultimate Biker Gang Leader promptly agreed to Kyoko's suggestion and threw Monokuma, who immediately self-destructed. Kyoko had effectively saved Mondo's life.

Chapter 1 - To 
On her first day of being trapped inside the school with her fellow classmates, and during everyone's initial investigation, Kyoko did not join the others in the dining hall until later than usual, much to Kiyotaka Ishimaru's annoyance. However, everyone grew bewildered when she revealed to have found a map of the school. Kyoko stated that they were indeed locked up inside Hope's Peak Academy, but that it was different in terms of its construction and has had many odd renovations done to it. After Monokuma had presented the first motive to everyone, Kyoko asked him why he would do something like this and what his motive was. Monokuma simply replied with "Despair. That's all".

After Sayaka Maizono was murdered and everyone checked the Monokuma File, Kyoko was one of the few students who did not immediately suspect Makoto. Kyoko investigated the scene of the crime, Makoto's room, and made many important discoveries such as his room being completely free of any hair, as well as the bathroom doorknob hanging off its hinges. When Makoto asked Kyoko about Sayaka's dying message, she told him that if he wanted to be completely convinced about the truth of this case, then he needed to solve the mystery himself, implying that she had already solved the mystery before anyone else had.

During the class trial, Kyoko is the only student who defends Makoto despite all initial evidence of the crime pointing to him. With her assistance, Makoto was successfully able to prove his own innocence. Once everyone had gotten onto the topic of how the killer entered Makoto's room (which the killer believed to be Sayaka's room due to the nameplates being swapped), Kyoko confirmed that Sayaka had lied about being scared and was actually trying to lure someone into the room with every intent to kill them. Makoto was quick to deny this claim, but with a notepad that Kyoko had discovered, she revealed that Sayaka had left a note asking someone to come to the room. Makoto was incredibly saddened to have found out that Sayaka took advantage of his trust and kindheartedness, but Kyoko reassured him and said that it would be over for all of them if they didn't figure out who the real culprit was.

After Kyoko helped everyone deduce Sayaka's dying message, Makoto was able to hone in on Leon Kuwata as the true perpetrator. Despite all of the evidence presented, Leon continued to vehemently deny the claim until Makoto asked to see his toolkit. Kyoko strictly said to Leon that "I lost it" is not an excuse to prove his own innocence at this point. Leon was no longer able to refute and as such, was found guilty of killing The Ultimate Pop Sensation. When Makoto attempted to lunge at Monokuma for driving Sayaka and Leon to commit their crimes, Kyoko stopped him and said that if he wanted to make Sayaka's enemies pay for what they've done, then he should hold off for now. Makoto reluctantly complied and Leon was dragged off to his execution, Kyoko kept a composed face during it while everyone else watched in shock.

After the trial had concluded, Kyoko talked to Makoto and tried to reassure him that even though it is an undeniable fact that Sayaka had betrayed him, it was still possible that her final moments were spent thinking of him due to her leaving her dying message. Makoto replied by saying it's impossible to know for sure and that she may have just been trying to get back at Leon for killing her, but Kyoko believed that deep down, she was uncertain about committing a crime and betraying her friend, calling it ironic. Kyoko went on to state that she believes that Makoto is the kind of person to push past these events and move on, becoming slightly surprised when he stated that he would carry Sayaka and Leon's deaths with him forever. Kyoko looked forward to seeing how he would continue, but then asked how he knew that she wanted to ask him about Sayaka. Makoto jokingly replied with "I'm psychic", stunning her a bit, before going on to say that he just had good intuition.

Chapter 2 - Boy's Life of 
After the first trial, Monokuma allowed the groups to explore the second floor after he removed the shutters. Kyoko and the others discovered a letter regarding what happening before the Killing School Life began. She also discovered a broken laptop, which was later repaired by Chihiro.

Upon the trial, she was the second person who discovered that Chihiro is actually a male. Knowing this, Kyoko attempted to lure the killer, Mondo, to misspeak. Kyoko's plan succeeded, and finally, the students were able to deduce the killer.

Chapter 3 - A Next Generation Legend!
On the next day, after exploring the third floor, Aoi confessed that she discovered Chihiro's ghost- who was later revealed as Alter Ego. Kyoko was the person who told the students to keep Alter Ego's presence a secret since Alter Ego was left by his master, Chihiro, in the bath's locker room which has no surveillance cameras in it. She also forbade anyone to use Alter Ego for their personal gain.

The next morning after Monokuma revealed his third incentive, to give a 10 billion yen cash to whoever manages to graduate, only Sakura, Aoi, Makoto and Kyoko herself attended the usual breakfast in the cafeteria. Feeling strange due to Celestia Ludenberg and Yasuhiro Hagakure's absence, they decided to split up to search for the others to avoid something bad that might happen.

During their search, Kyoko suddenly disappeared when the groups manage to find all the students, including Kiyotaka Ishimaru and Hifumi Yamada's corpses. Later, Kyoko revealed that during her search, she found Hiro in "Justice Robo" suit inside a locker in the pool, a costume that the students believed to be the culprit behind Kiyotaka and Hifumi's murder.

Much later after the third trial, Kyoko is the person who was trusted by the killer to keep the key for the locker that Alter Ego is in. After the trial ended and the culprit was executed, Makoto asked her where she disappeared to during the search of the missing students. And it's revealed that Kyoko found a secret room in the men's bathroom on the second floor which doesn't have any surveillance cameras inside it.

Chapter 4 - All●Star●Apologies 
Kyoko, along with Makoto and Aoi didn't receive a letter from Sakura to meet with her. Later, she and Makoto found Aoi screaming and reporting that she saw Sakura sitting silently inside the locked rec room on the third floor. With Makoto's help, they were able to break into the rec room.

But it was too late, Kyoko confirmed that Sakura has already lost her life. Aoi, who was shocked by the fact that her best friend was murdered, decided to call up the others to come to the rec room, leaving Kyoko and Makoto, who already started their investigation. During the investigation, Kyoko found that the shattered Monokuma bottle behind Sakura's death site was heavier than a Monokuma bottle figure. Kyoko believed that Sakura was struck twice in the head based on her wounds, but strangely she and Makoto only found one Monokuma bottle figure.

During the trial, Kyoko and Makoto deduced that Sakura committed suicide to stop the others from fighting. Kyoko then used Sakura's payback (Breaking the Headmaster's room, which is prohibited by Monokuma) and snuck inside the Headmaster's room and stole Monokuma's key that can unlock every room in Hope's Peak Academy. From there, she was the first of the survivors to know about Mukuro Ikusaba, the sixteenth student.

Chapter 5 - 100 Mile Dash; Pain of a Junk Food 
Byakuya's suspicion regarding how Kyoko's Ultimate Talent was the only one left unknown had come to fruition to which she states 'she can't' answer because she had no memory at all of what she was. Byakuya didn't believe this was the truth and explained they should limit her options until she's willing to talk, by taking her room key. When he thought he had finally convinced her to talk, she handed him her room key with no hesitation, to Byakuya's shock. Kyoko realized that trying to explain her situation earlier would only lead to the same conclusion.

Kyoko later rung Makoto's doorbell during the night and told him to come to the dressing room before rushing off, to which Makoto followed in pursuit. She revealed to him that she has stolen something precious from Monokuma and made sure to state this in a room without surveillance cameras. She explained she used Makoto as a decoy to draw Monokuma to the data center so she could enter the headmaster's room undetected and retrieve the key giving her access to every part of the school that was locked, she also discovered a file revealing Mukuro's existence within the school and concluding her to be the possible mastermind rather than the Headmaster, Jin Kirigiri, who she stated she is sure isn't the mastermind. Her reason for calling on Makoto's help is so he can distract Monokuma yet again so she can find out which door will open with the key she retrieved, he successfully achieved this.

Upon meeting in the dining hall the next morning, they find Kyoko missing and Monokuma was unaware of her whereabouts either. Later that day, Makoto started feeling the effects of a fever and had a strange dream in his sleep but woke up to find a masked stranger, who we later find to be Junko trying to murder him however too heavy to move, he was powerless until Kyoko saved him from danger by fighting back and stood over him before he passed out again, he woke up believing it to be a dream.

A body at the indoor garden on the 5th floor is discovered, and upon Toko triggering the explosion and making the body unrecognizable, with Kyoko missing during the investigation, it is presumed she may be the one dead. She later shows up just before the Class Trial begins and tells Makoto that she was searching the second-floor dorms where there were no surveillance camera's and that she took a brief look at the body before making her way to the elevator.

During the Class Trial, the murder of Mukuro is pinned on Kyoko following evidence of a locker key that was hidden in her room is found, the exact key to a locker which contained blood stained arrows bunched together used as a weapon to Kill Mukuro. But Kyoko made a convincing lie that she couldn't enter her room with her room key because Byakuya had confiscated it. Makoto knew this was a lie because she told him about the key she had found which could open any door in the whole school but he chose not to say anything in order to protect Kyoko and took the blame when they accused him of planting the locker key during the investigation while he and Byakuya searched Kyoko's room.

In a twist of fate Makoto ended up being the one to receive an execution when it was destined for Kyoko, she was choked up, for the first time revealing her frustration and sadness for letting Makoto down.

After dealing with the upset, Kyoko stated to Byakuya that it was the mastermind who was on the back foot, not themselves. She later helped Makoto escape the garbage disposal room, providing him food and water and saying she was atoning for her mistakes for not helping him in the trial when she should've protected him. She then explained why she had to survive the Class Trial since she was the only one to lose her memories of her Ultimate Ability and purpose, the mastermind clearly removed them otherwise she'd interfere with their plan. She expresses how much she trusts Makoto but isn't used to seeking help from others, she then explains her Ultimate Talent and purpose which she's finally remembered, that she's the Ultimate Detective and she came to the school to find the headmaster, Jin, her father. She also explained that the mastermind had to use the trial to kill her because they had to follow their own school rules yet unconventionally tried to kill Makoto, but she states she can hear the God of Death and felt a sense of dread, noticed Makoto's attacker and gave pursuit, before hindering the attackers actions. She then explains the Mastermind is the 'Other Ultimate Despair' and that that is their 'True enemy' at this point in time.

Chapter 6 - Ultimate Pain, Ultimate Suffering, Ultimate Despair, Ultimate Execution, Ultimate 
Prior to Makoto's miraculous survival and return, Kyoko would begin her retaliation by demanding that Monokuma reopen the trial, to which the talking bear gave up and reluctantly agreed. She is then reunited with the other students (who still think that Makoto was responsible for killing Mukuro) while explaining on his behalf that the trial was restarted due to some circumstances (basically thanks to Kyoko's sharp retaliation over Monokuma's taunts).

Throughout the course of the investigation, Kyoko learned that her father is no longer alive in the academy: his remains were put in a gift box by Monokuma in the secret room of the principal's bedroom. Even though she looked unaffected by this revelation, she was clearly shocked by the fact that her father, in fact, never forgot about her and that she was really dear to him, to the point that the password to access the secret room was Kyoko's name and that in that room there was a photo of a smiling Kyoko as a child with her father. Even though she is still upset with her father, she was shocked to the point where she asked Makoto to leave the room, since she needed to be alone for a while to 'collect' her feelings.

As the true perpetrator was revealed as the real Junko Enoshima, Kyoko is shocked by her father's primary reason to cut his ties with her big family and his true motive to build the academy which made her remain silent for the first time.

As Kyoko was motivated by Makoto's words that hope is still alive, Kyoko would rethink about the case which seemingly involved her late father's meaning, indicating that even though their hearts disconnected, she added that if she knew her father well, he would never allow her to sacrifice Makoto just to stay in the school. With her support to Makoto, Byakuya Togami witnessed him force Junko onto her knees and execute herself in a special punishment (The Ultimate Punishment); which resulted in her 'death' and the survivors were finally free from the strings of the sadistic game.

Epilogue - Goodbye Despair 
Considering their torments are finally over, Kyoko wonders if Makoto's faith about hope would maintain pure after the gruesome journey. Before she bid her friends farewell, Kyoko wonders if leaving the school, which she wouldn't miss, would be for better or worst. With that, Kyoko is among the 6 survivors who survived the incident.

Joining the Future 
Kyoko and the others survived together in the apocalyptic world until they were found by the Future Foundation. They decided to join Future Foundation to fight against despair and Future Foundation helped them to recover their school memories. Kyoko was made the head of the 14th division and her duty as the 14th division leader is the protection of victims and to spread news of the Future Foundation’s activities to the public.

Danganronpa Gaiden: Killer 
Chapter 3 - Bessatsu Shounen Zetsubou 
Kyoko was seen in the explanation of the Tragedy, along with the survivors of the Killing School Life as one of the people integral in stopping the Tragedy's mastermind, Junko Enoshima.

Chapter 6 - Possibility of 
Kyoko stepped into the room where Misaki and Takumi admitted in the hospital and directly asked Takumi whether he knew about his former middle-school classmate, Shūji Fujigawa. Kyoko left the room and told him to report anything he knew about Shūji after Takumi replied that he didn't know Shūji very well.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
Kyoko, Makoto, and Byakuya arrived into the Neo World Program to save the remaining students by activating the Forced Shutdown.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
After defeating Alter Ego Junko and exiting the Neo World, Kyoko leaves Jabberwock Island with Makoto and Byakuya while Hajime Hinata watches from the island.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Kyoko appears in Danganronpa 3 - Future Arc, along with Makoto, Aoi, and Yasuhiro. Kyoko is the 14th Division's leader and is one of the few people allowed to attend Makoto's trial, thus she gets roped into the "Final Killing Game."

Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
Kyoko, Aoi, and Yasuhiro were waiting for Makoto's arrival on the Future Foundation's off-shore facility's rooftop. She took Makoto inside the boarding room to attend his trial. However, Kyosuke Munakata immediately ordered Juzo Sakakura to handcuff Makoto without any discussion first. Kyoko began to patronize Juzo as he wounded Makoto and requested to Kyosuke to suspend his trial as he was not in a suitable state for questioning, which Kyosuke agreed to.

Later, Kyoko and Aoi were in the bathroom together. Aoi was upset that they weren't permitted to visit Makoto, and Kyoko simply explained to her that the Future Foundation still suspected them as allies to protect and hide the Remnants of Despair. Kyoko told Aoi to stay away from her Division's problem, but Aoi insisted that she would help her friends in need, making Kyoko smile at her.

As she got out from the bathroom, she encountered Ryota Mitarai in the corridor who was hesitating to enter the boardroom since he was very late. Kyoko and Ryota returned to the boardroom. Soon after, the building was attacked by an unknown enemy. She asked Makoto about the situation and concluded that they had been locked up inside the facility.

Kyoko and the others were unaware that a sleeping gas had been thrown inside the boarding room and rendered them to sleep for some time. When she awoke, she and the others found Monokuma bracelets already set up on their wrist.

Monokuma, who has been resurrected, appeared on the monitor, announcing that he would make the Future Foundation's leaders kill each other. He began the Final Killing Game with Chisa Yukizome's dead body falling from the ceiling.

Episode 02 - Hang the 
After Monokuma announced the Final Killing Game rules, Kyoko checked her NG Code and was quietly surprised by what was written there. When Usami appeared on Miaya Gekkogahara's computer screen, she explained to Aoi that Miaya was one of the developers of the Neo World Program.

Kyoko examined the boardroom’s door and found that the kunai that Sonosuke Izayoi threw to the door earlier was missing after they drugged to sleep. She was the first person who noticed Daisaku Bandai dying from the lethal poison injection from the bangle. To avoid the NG Code violation, Miaya suggested everyone reveal theirs but Kyoko told her that there might be some people that were prohibited to tell their own NG Code.

When the situation heated up, Kyoko created a diversion using the fire extinguisher so that Makoto could escape from the room. Following her successful attempt, Kyoko went to hide with Kazuo Tengan and Ryota somewhere inside the building.

Episode 03 - Cruel Violence and Hollow Words 
Kyoko awakened after the sleeping drug's effect wore off. She was a bit skeptical and suspicious with Kazuo's calmness despite the situation hanging around the facility. Kyoko pointed out that the fewer the participants, the higher chance to find the attacker as if they had no intention of winning. The rules are totally disadvantaging the attacker.

Kyoko intended to investigate alone before Ryota wondered why Kyosuke wanted to kill Makoto. He wanted everyone to believe in each other to fight back Monokuma, but when Kyoko asked her to show him his NG Code he refused to show it. She also didn't want anyone to discover her NG Code, saying that it was difficult to trust each other in that situation. Kyoko speculated that the attacker probably incorporated their NG Codes into the rules in order to make everyone realize that. Kyoko was cut off by Makoto via the intercom. She smiled when Makoto revealed his NG Code to everyone.

However, despite knowing Makoto's softness to his Future Foundation allies, Kyoko still worried about him. When Kyosuke went to finish off Makoto, his subordinate Juzo came to attack Kyoko and almost hit her with a chair but she managed to dodge it.

Episode 04 - Who is a 
Kazuo and Ryota stood up for Kyoko and tried to protect her from Juzo's attack. Juzo knocked Kazuo away by kicking him in the back of the head and went to attack Kyoko with the chair he had previously thrown. Ryota tried to stop him, but Juzo kicked Ryota into Kyoko, and he accidentally injured her ankle when he fell on her. After Kazuo managed to beat Juzo, the three of them tied him to the wall with two loose wires. Soon, she reunited with Aoi and Miaya. The two of them comforted Ryota who blamed himself for hurting Kyoko's legs a while ago.

After hearing Kyosuke's announcement from the intercom to execute Makoto, Kyoko confirmed it as bait for their group. She wanted to negotiate with Kyosuke, but Kazuo offered to do the job. Kyoko decided to return to the boardroom to investigate Chisa and Daisaku's bodies and met with Koichi Kizakura who was already waiting for her. Hearing that he felt safe when he stayed around her, Kyoko slapped Koichi's hands and didn't let him intervene with her job. When Ryota asked her about her opinion of the attacker, Kyoko revealed that she hadn't gathered enough information and guessed that Ryota had already thought about his own opinion.

Episode 05 - Dreams of Distant 
Kyoko finished inspecting Chisa's body and learned a lot of things regarding the attacker. She said to Koichi that she would go to inspect Great Gozu's body to reveal the attacker's method.

Episode 06 - No Man is an Island 
Kyoko appeared in Makoto's nightmare and apparently died from a stab on her chest with the attacker's signature knife. She came back to alive and scared Makoto until he woke up from his nightmare.

Later, Kyoko alongside Ryota and Koichi woke up inside the room where Great Gozu's body located. She inspected his body for a while and decided to search for the third body. On the hallway, she was annoyed with Koichi's ramble about his hatred towards detectives. Eventually, Kyoko learned that Koichi only joking with her and took his advice to express her feelings more.

Kyoko and Ryota found Sonosuke's dead body with the attacker's signature knife stabbed in his chest. Kyoko confirmed that he was the third victim but Koichi objected him. It turned out that Seiko Kimura's body also found pushed to the wall with blood coming out from her left abdomen. Kyoko took notes before Ruruka called for them from inside the lounge room.

Kyoko and the others moved Sonosuke's body inside the lounge room and did some autopsy on his body. She found a strange white powder on his face and noticed a small amount of blood spotted on his left eye. To support her deduction, she asked Ruruka to stay with her to help her investigation.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair 
Kyoko makes a small appearance during the ending scenes after Monaca explains that one of the people who survived 'Big-Sis Junko's Killing Game' will not survive thanks to Makoto's actions. With that being said, Kyosuke is seen walking down a blue-lit hallway, Katana in hand and automatically the scene is transported to the library with Kyoko looking up in potential shock at what might be coming her way.

Episode 08 - Who Killed Cock Robin 
Kyoko continued to investigate Sonosuke's body while Ruruka continuously seeked to hinder her findings. Kyoko was surprised to find Koichi is more resourceful than he seems by knowing Sonosuke's trap layout within the library.

Juzo entered a little later and beat everyone in the library down and then focused entirely on Kyoko, seeking to finish off the job he tried to complete earlier. However, Koichi is able to protect her by leading Juzo away, but Ruruka has a plan of her own and blows up the floor using one of Sonosuke's explosives to make sure nobody else finds out the truth about how she murdered Sonosuke and her true intentions.

As Kyoko was falling, Koichi set off his NG code in order to pull her up and used his last amount of strength to push her on to steady ground. Kyoko expressed muted shock as Koichi fell away from her, as she tried to reach out her hand to him, he falls too quickly and she missed her grip.

After these events took place, Ruruka took control of Juzo to try and remove Kyoko and Ryota, but her plan fails and Kyoko, snapping out of shock, explained how Sonosuke's murder took place and the secret door's involvement in the matter. With Juzo and Ruruka occupied the secret doorway, Kyoko and Ryota escape the library in a hurry.

In the ending scene, Ryota asks why Koichi decided to save her. Kyoko explains that she had her suspicions but no solid evidence. She then removes her jacket and states that she is a detective, implying that she still muted her emotions as she always has done.

Episode 09 - You are My Reason to Die 
Kyoko and Ryota come to halt after escaping the library where Juzo and Ruruka were situated. After catching their breath, Ryota inquires as to whether leaving the exit behind was a good idea, Kyoko admits to him that it was indeed a fraud. She did understand that it led outside the facility but not in the way they would've wanted, beginning to reveal that the building they're in is, in fact, an underwater facility. She explains it would be an easy job to remove them from the room after the first sleep timer and make it look as convincing as possible that they hadn't ever been moved, she reveals her suspicions when Sonosuke's knife that damaged the conference room door is no longer there and the door is left undamaged, leading to the conclusion that if they were underwater, the chances of someone intervening would be slimmer and points towards Kyosuke as the culprit of the Final Killing Game as he was involved in the facility's construction from the very beginning. She concludes that the whole game they've been playing has favored only Kyosuke.

She requests her and Ryota go look for Makoto and the others, to Ryota's displeasure, Kyoko explains Makoto is more than he seems, that he is stronger than anyone, optimistic and cares about his friends. She admits to being worried about him, with the way he puts everyone else's needs over his own, but that she believes in him because of this. As she gets to the climax of her speech, she is cut off as Aoi and Makoto show up behind her, the latter blushing and Kyoko begins to feel flustered herself, coughing as she tries to gain her composure once again.

Kyoko, Makoto, Aoi, and Ryota found themselves later in an unknown room, discussing with each other as they eat and drink. Kyoko begins to inquire if Togami is on his way, but Makoto is still worried about the idea that someone may die because of him, explaining that Munakata believes his words have no power. Kyoko removes the glove from her left hand, something of which she has never done in front of anyone before unless it was 'someone close', she places her hand upon Makoto's. She tells him the power of his words has become everyone's hope, including her own. Kyoko further explains that they will all be behind him along the way. Kyoko and the rest of them, are later seen examining Tengan's message of hope left behind after his death.

Before the timer goes off for the fourth time, Makoto, Aoi, and Ryota make sure to barricade the room as Kyoko begins examining her NG code once more. Kyoko tells Makoto to never give up on hope and that whatever happens, she will always be there for him. The sleeping gas kicks in and they all collapse unconscious. Kyoko, the last one to go down, stares at Makoto and smiles before also losing her consciousness.

When they begin to awake, Makoto is confident everyone has survived, until he, Aoi, and Ryota notice that Kyoko is motionless. They quickly approached her and checked her bracelet, specifically her NG Code: 'Passing the Fourth Time Limit With Makoto Naegi Alive'. They conclude that Kyoko is dead and break down into tears. Then Munakata speaks through the intercom in the Monitoring Room, inquiring whether Makoto has learned Kyoko's forbidden action and explaining that this proves further that his platitudes are useless.

Episode 10 - Death, Destruction, Despair 
Makoto has a flashback of the time Kyoko saved him during the Killing School Life, she dropped down the trash shoot to save him from the trash disposal room and offered him food and drink. She inquired as to whether Makoto ever gave up, to which he replied his optimism is all he has going for him. Kyoko expressed that it was a wonderful thing he has going for him and then smiled in his direction to which he blushed, smiling in return.

The scene was revisited to the point where Kyoko is dead and Makoto, Aoi, and Ryota are gathered around her, tearfully. After Kyosuke explains that Kyoko's NG code proved that Makoto's platitudes are useless, Makoto gathered his composure by remembering Kyoko's words, that she will always be 'by his side'. He wiped the blood of her left eye on his left-hand palm and went to meet with Kyosuke. Makoto explained to Ryota that he has no choice but to meet with Kyosuke and leave Kyoko, because she entrusted her hope to him by letting him live, and he has to fulfill what she believed in.

Later Makoto is able to relate to Kyosuke in their battle by expressing to him that if Kyoko had turned to despair and tried to kill him or he had no choice but to kill her in order to stop her, that he would still be glad to have met her nonetheless.

While Aoi watches over Kyoko's corpse, she finds her notebook, which contains the truth behind the Final Killing Game.

Episode 11 - All Good Things 
A flashback is shown, revealing the point in time when the Future Foundation observes the end of the Killing School Life. The vault door of Hope's Peak Academy is opened, Kyoko and the remainder of the 78th class survey the despair laying around them, with Kyoko having a muted expression of shock.

After Aoi finds Kyoko's notebook, she shares it with Makoto, Kyosuke, and Ryota. In it, Kyoko explains that the victims committed suicide, and the monitors in the building were somehow related, indicating that the victims watched some type of video. Makoto requested Kyosuke tie him up facing the monitor so he can test Kyoko's theory out himself. When Makoto forced himself to watch the brainwashing video, Kyoko appeared first, alongside Sayaka. She proceeded to taunt Makoto with the former, asking why he is still alive and placed the blame for their deaths on him.

As their deceased classmates appear behind Kyoko and Sayaka, blood starts to flow out of Kyoko's eye, which was how Makoto and the others found her corpse. Makoto picked up a knife to kill himself as Kyoko instructed. She and Sayaka urged him to continue until Juzo quashes their efforts by knocking the knife out of Makoto's hand, effectively worned off the brainwashing effect.

Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Makoto began to reminisce about Kyoko, staring at her blood upon his hand.

On the boat ride home, Mikan Tsumiki held up a drug vial labeled Antagonist, which Nagito Komaeda realized Seiko had made during the killing game. Mikan explained that she had found someone who used the drug to save themselves from the NG Code Poisoning of the bracelets of the Final Killing Game, so she was able to revive them from a near-death state. This is shown to be Kyoko, who left the building alive and unharmed, meeting with Makoto who turned around in surprise.

Several months after the event of the Final Killing Game, the Future Foundation rebuild Hope's Peak Academy. At the end of the scene, Kyoko entered a classroom where Makoto was located, telling him that everyone was waiting for him, the new headmaster of the Academy. It is implied that she helps run Hope's Peak Academy alongside Makoto as a vice principlal, and it is also implied they've become a romantic couple.


Main Article: After School Lesson
Main Article: NG Code Poisoning

Family:

Jin Kirigiri 
Little is known about their relationship, she only stated that they were just family and nothing more. Jin left her when she was a little girl and Kyoko stated that he only used her mother's death as an excuse so that he could leave the house and that she didn't really know him as a father because they never really spoke to each other much during their days together. However, it was Kyoko's grandfather who encouraged her to hate her father and in reality Jin left the family because Fuhito showed no care when Jin's wife died.

When Kyoko found out that her father died in the school and found his skeleton, she didn't show any feelings towards his death. But Makoto, who was looking at the remains of her father instead, noticed that she didn't even look in the box. Makoto thought that somewhere in her heart she must have thought she was wrong and guilty about her father's death.

Fuhito Kirigiri 
Kyoko is very close to her grandfather, who taught her all she knows about being a detective, and protected her from anything he deemed a threat. However, he was also very strict about raising Kyoko as his heir and told her she is a detective before anything else, causing some of Kyoko's emotional issues. He also didn't allow Kyoko to see her dying mother and encouraged her to hate her father.

Nevertheless, Kyoko loves her grandfather dearly, which is confirmed by the fact that he became a Captive.

Childhood:

Yui Samidare 
Kyoko and Yui get along together throughout the events of Danganronpa Kirigiri. Kyoko even calls Yui "Yui Onee-sama" (Meaning older sister) because Yui insists on Kyoko calling her "onee-chan".

Class 78:

Love Interests:

Makoto Naegi 
While their relationship during their school years is a bit unclear, in Danganronpa IF it's stated that Makoto had a crush on Kyoko and Junko described her as Mukuro's "rival in love" due to Mukuro's secret crush on him. However, it's not mentioned how she felt about him. Since Makoto is originally shown interested in Sayaka, this seems to imply that at some point his affections turned towards Kyoko (regardless, he and Sayaka are shown to be close friends in Danganronpa 3). In a high school picture, Makoto seems to be looking at Kyoko and Sayaka while their class was out swimming.

During the Killing Game, ever since the first murder, Kyoko became closer to Makoto, evident from her later interactions with him, hinting some sort of mutual attraction. Kyoko also helps Makoto solve each Class Trial whenever he is out of clues. Both are on good terms with each other, Kyoko trusts Makoto (although just for her plans against Monokuma) but Makoto puts his trust in her completely as he hopes that she would trust him as much as he trusts her. Regardless, Kyoko seems to care more for Makoto as time goes on. Evidence was shown when she entered his room and told Makoto to beware of Mukuro. She also saved him from Junko (thought to be Mukuro) who was about to kill him when he was asleep. When Makoto allows himself to be found guilty in Chapter 5 (though he's saved at the last minute by Alter Ego), Kyoko realizes that she's been putting her own desires ahead of his safety. When she discovers that Makoto ends up at the garbage disposal room, she risks her life to save him. Kyoko then showed her scarred hands to Makoto, which is a great sign of trust from her, as she states that she shows her hands only to people she considers as close as family.

During the last Class Trial, Makoto was the one who told the remaining students (including her) to not give in to despair, helping her overcome her state of shock over the intense pressure of the situation they were in. Kyoko told Makoto that even though she didn't know her dad, he would never tell her to stay in the school if it meant betraying and getting him murdered by Junko, thus showing their bonds and trust to each other. At their "Graduation," Kyoko told Makoto she was actually kind of looking forward to facing whatever is out there if it's with someone like him, hinting that she possibly has romantic feelings for him. After joining Future Foundation, she becomes Makoto's leader. Kyoko continues to admire his optimism, and Makoto, in turn, admires her 'cool' personality and considers her the person who has kept him alive.

In Danganronpa 3, it becomes much more evident that the two have feelings for each other, especially notable in Makoto's shyer behavior and tendency to blush more often. During the collaboration game of Danganronpa 3 and Guns Girl Z, when Kyoko is accused of being so stoic that even Makoto can't find her cute, he then a bit shyly but firmly points out that he does, in fact, find her quite cute, which surprises her and makes her blush. During the killing game, when Makoto overhears Kyoko talking about him with Ryota Mitarai, Makoto blushes, embarrassed by Kyoko's small speech while Kyoko coughs awkwardly after realizing he heard her. At one point, Kyoko takes off her gloves and holds his hand to comfort him, and Makoto is also seen mimicking Kyoko's thinking posture at one point. In the Otomedia magazine, Makoto states that Kyoko reminds him of autumn due to being cool as well as possessing a really warm and gentle side. He then gets very nervous and defensive about the subject and tries to change the subject by stating that coincidentally her birthday is in October. This only makes it even more suspicious, and he claims he remembers her birthday because they're friends, yet he fails to remember his other friends' birthdays.Aoi also appears to be very much aware that the two like each other, grinning widely after Kyoko's speech and later looking at the two while smiling knowingly, seemingly supportive of them.

After him trying to protect the Remnants of Despair, Kyoko has to escort Makoto to his trial and she promises to use her powers as his leader to protect him. At one point during the Final Killing Game, Makoto catches Kyoko talking about him with Ryota, which seems to embarrass her a bit and makes Makoto blush. Later, Kyoko ends up triggering her NG code of passing the fourth time limit with Makoto alive. It is possible Kyoko did not tell him because she believed he might sacrifice himself for her, and it's also possible she didn't know with full confidence that Seiko's Antagonist drug would be able to save her life completely. Instead, Kyoko gives Makoto words of encouragement before they fall asleep, telling him to never give up on hope and that she would always be by his side.

After he was brainwashed, Makoto hallucinated the "ghosts" of Kyoko and Sayaka, as he believed that she was dead at the moment. Sayaka's ghost has been confirmed to represent his first love, implying that Kyoko is his current love.

The two reunite after the Killing Game and it is implied she helps Makoto run the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy after the events of the Side: Hope. In the official art, they've seen holding hands while wearing their new clothing, heavily implying that they became a romantic couple, considering their pose and the fact that the two are shown to be the type of characters who hold hands only in special situations (especially Kyoko).

Friends:

Aoi Asahina 
Kyoko becomes close friends with Aoi after joining the Future Foundation with her and the other survivors. When Aoi decides to help Kyoko defend Makoto, she shows concern for her, knowing that she'll be blamed as well if she continues to do so. Aoi is one of the few people Kyoko has complete faith in, smiling when Aoi states her willingness to protect Makoto.

During the events of the Final Killing Game, Aoi and Kyoko reunite for a short spell to which Aoi hugs Kyoko open seeing her, showing how their bond has grown (especially considering Kyoko's usual dislike for physical contact). Aoi also calls Kyoko Kyoko-chan, which she seems to like. Some of Aoi's expressions indicate that she knows Kyoko and Makoto like each other, and she appears silently very happy for them.

Byakuya Togami 
Kyoko does not have a good relationship with Byakuya. During their killing school life, Byakuya had always been suspicious of Kyoko and even went as far as to taking her room key because she couldn't tell him what her reason for selection at Hope's Peak Academy was in Chapter 5. Kyoko disliked him because of his lack of respect for human emotions, which she said would come back to bite him, with Byakuya shaking the remark off.

Eventually, it seems they learned to work with each other during their time at the Future Foundation, possibly because they both had their memories returned.

Ultimate Despair:

Junko Enoshima 
Junko saw Kyoko as a threat from the very beginning, due to her status as a detective. Because of this, she took care in erasing her classmate's memories, however, this later proved to be ineffective. Junko later went against her own rules and attempted to have Kyoko killed, but Kyoko easily saw through Junko's plans, using her abilities to keep herself alive. Kyoko later took part in defeating Junko.

Mukuro Ikusaba 
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, she and Mukuro are partners in the track race. Mukuro stated while Kyoko isn't very athletic, she wasn't bad either. Kyoko notes of Mukuro's athletic physique and Mukuro stated that her good eye was befitting the Ultimate Detective.

Monokuma 
As one of Monokuma's captives, Kyoko is, at first, very cautious around him, suggesting to her fellow students that they obey his orders. Later, when Kyoko breaks the school rules and steals one of Monokuma's possessions, she angers Monokuma. Monokuma tried to manipulate the students to suspect Kyoko as the culprit who supposedly killed Mukuro Ikusaba and votes for her as the guilty murderer. If followed the bad ending, Monokuma executes her leaving the other students inside the academy. If following the good ending, Kyoko challenges him in Chapter 6 to find the mastermind behind the killing game and the murder of Mukuro.

Future Foundation:

Koichi Kizakura 
Koichi was a close friend of Kyoko's father, Jin, and liked to stick around with Kyoko because of this. However, his attitude irritated Kyoko, who found him to be a nuisance. Kyoko even expresses anger towards him, despite her usually preferring to keep her emotions hidden. However, when Ruruka Ando attempts to kill Kyoko by destroying the floor beneath her, Koichi catches Kyoko with his left hand, although his NG code was not to open it. This resulted in Koichi being injected with the poison and dying. Kyoko was shocked when Koichi saves her and is visibly saddened by his death. Whether Kyoko knew of Koichi's relationship with her father or not is still unknown, but she did say she had her theories when Ryota asked her why Koichi saved her at the cost of his own life.

Ryota Mitarai 
The two become friends during the Final Killing Game although it is unknown at this point whether they share a true connection with each other. At the request of Kazuo, Ryota escorts Kyoko wherever she goes during this time, and Ryota seems quite interested in Kyoko's detective abilities. Kyoko sees Ryota as a friend, and he seems to be one of the few people in the Final Killing Game that she trusts. He's willing to protect her and she appreciates this, supporting Ryota when he gets depressed for thinking he is not as strong as Makoto.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Kyoko Kirigiri & School Mode/Kyoko Kirigiri
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Kyoko in order to learn more about her. If he gives Kyoko a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Kyoko will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Kyoko's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

1Chap. 62345
Kyoko Kirigiri Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Swimming	Nice body	Running
Glasses	Ribbon	Gloves
--	--	--
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 3 Civet Coffee DR1 Present 21 Blueberry Perfume DR1 Present 46 Rose in Vitro DR1 Present 47 Cherry Blossom Bouquet DR1 Present 80 Bojobo Dolls


Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Kyoko grants the following skills:

Neural Liberation	Focus Gauge decreases more slowly during concentration and Fever Time.	5 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Kyoko KirigiriMakoto is able to see inside Kyoko's dorm room only during the Investigation section in Chapter 5. Her room is the default design for girls at Hope's Peak Academy. It features all the same furniture as Makoto's, except with pink bed sheets and no lint roller.

DR1ExtraDR2DR3Novel
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"My name is...Kyoko Kirigiri."
"Maybe, but just staying put doesn't mean we'll be safe."
"I know how you feel, but...all we can do now is check it out, right?"
"Everyone, we need to just calm down."
Chapter 1:

"So? What are you going to do now? Just stand around glaring at each other?"
"You're all spending an awful lot of time yelling and carrying on. Do you really think you can afford to do so? Have none of you accepted the reality of the situation?"
"He has no intention of standing in the way of our pursuit of the truth. Interesting..."
"We're his prisoners, right? It's not a good idea to defy him without reason. We don't need to make any more sacrifices than we already have..."
"Now's no time to wallow in your depression. The worst thing we can do right now is lose all faith in each other. That would lead to the same disastrous result as having *total* faith in everyone else."
"Cooperation is absolutely key at this point. Who you decide to trust or not trust is, of course, up, to you."
"Right now, exposing the killer is most important thing. Because if we don't, we're all going to die here."
"We need to get to the bottom of this and find out who killed Sayaka. We'll have to collect clues to form a foundation, then construct an argument to come to a final decision. If we get this wrong... Well, do I really have to say any more? Everyone pray for good luck."
"You need to uncover the mystery of this case yourself... Otherwise, the case will end and you'll remain unconvinced."
"I said it before, but it's up to you to uncover the mysteries surrounding this case yourself. If you don't, you'll never come to grips with the future."
"Let's draw our conclusions *after* we've presented our arguments. Otherwise, what's the point of the trial?"
"I don't think that's true at all. I'm sure if we keep at it, something new will reveal itself." (to Leon)
"It's a pretty old-fashioned technique, but even the classics can be surprisingly useful sometimes."
"Makoto, right now you just need to concentrate on figuring out the answer to this mystery. If we can't uncover who murdered Sayaka, it's over for all of us..."
"And let me say this right now... "I lost it" isn't an excuse at this point."
"If you really want to make her enemies pay for what they've done, you need to let it go for now."
"Her final thought... ...was how she could protect you. The fact that she used her last ounce of energy to leave her dying message proves it. If she didn't care what happened to you, she never would have left that message."
"Her hesitation attracted failure. It's almost ironic when you think about it."
"Because...you're the kind of person who can overcome this. Because you can move past the deaths of your friends—Sayaka and Leon—and keep moving forward. Without someone like that, the ohters would never be able to break free of such a desperate situation."
"So instead of forgetting them...you're choosing the hard road. Well, I have high expectations for you." (About Leon and Sayaka)
Chapter 2:

"What we *shouldn't* do is leave this here without finding out what's inside."
"Everyone stop bickeirng. Listen, there's some truth in what Byakuya said. If we don't solve the mystery and find the killer, our own lives are forfeit. And if Byakuya is right that Genocide Jack is somehow the one who killed Chihiro... ...then unless we do something, more victims could start piling up."
"Don't worry. This'll make the whole trial more exciting. I'm sure that thought must please you?"
"No, I'm with Makoto. If there's any doubt whatsoever, we need to explore every possibility. Because if we're wrong, we all die here."
"No, I'm not the frightful one. Not nearly as frightful as someone capable of murdering a friend."
Chapter 3:

"There's a chance I may become a victim myself, I know. But I'm not as weak as you may think. I wouldn't go down without a fight, I assure you."
"This is no time for talking needless risks. For now, I'll monitor the progress of the file analysis. I'm confident we'll uncover some kind of clue once it's finished."
"After seeing how happy we were, an evil little monster like you would never let that last for long."
"It's okay. We have Alter Ego. I'm sure he'll find something that'll help us. So for now... ...we have to just endure it, come what may."
"When it comes to motives, money certainly is the gold standard, so to speak. Whether it's in a mystery novel, or the real world..."
"Don't go around doing whatever you feel like. It causes problems. And not just for me. For everyone."
"I thought I made myself clear yesterday, but since being subtle didn't work... ...I suppose I have to clarify myself further." (to Hifumi)
"Anything we do at night brings a higher chance of the mastermind noticing us."
"Don't take any risks. If anything happens, call for help right away." (to Makoto, Aoi, and Sakura)
"He may be a suspect, but he deserves fair treatment."
"Dead bodies don't lie, you know. They tell the truth far more easily than the living. Wouldn't you agree?"
"This isn't the place to talk about it. Save your accusations for when we get to the courtroom."
"It's still far too early to reach that conclusion. Besides, there's no hurry to decide who did it. Before we rush to a verdict, shouldn't we explore every single possibility? Instead of seizing on one viewpoint, the truth is uncovered by analyzing things from every angle."
"For now, we can't get fixated on who did it, or we'll just keep going around in circles."
"Well, what if I told you there was a way to make the impossible possible?"
"Naturally, if one person can be saved per murder, an accomplice has no risk versus reward benefit. The payoff for working together—the reward that balances out the risk of taking part in the scheme. There's no point in being someone's accomplice if there's no benefit to you."
Chapter 4:

"Loneliness has become commonplace."
"Plus, we still have Alter Ego. We don't have to give in to despair just yet."
"You can handle that kind of thing though, right? After all, you're a boy."
"We're friends, so you should be able to trust me. Isn't that what you said before?"
"Then you trust Monokuma's word over the people who have died? That's what you're saying, isn't it? I'm shocked. You told everyone how we should believe in our friends, but you refuse to do the same."
"I'll find a way... No matter what it takes...I will find the headmaster. No matter the cost... No matter what it takes...I will find the headmaster."
"And frankly, I question the ease with which you decide who is and isn't your friend."
"Let it go for now, Hina. Talking about it isn't going to help anything. Go to your room, cool down, and we can continue this discussion tomorrow."
"Before you get too far into your argument, maybe you should stop and think things through."
"It's what other people call having "feelings," Byakuya. And all you can do is mock them for it. A friendly word of warning—someday that attitude is going to come back and bite you. Hard."
"You didn't want to confuse everyone until you could talk to her and be sure of what you saw. That's what you were thinking, and that's why you didn't tell me. Right? To think like that... I wouldn't have expected such arrogance from you. Because ultimately, that means you don't trust me."
"There's no question that Alter Ego is our friend."
"He's our friend, so I want to take his feelings into consideration. And he says that he wants to fight alongside his friends. If you were in his place, could you just sit by and do nothing in this situation? If you saw everyone else fighting and doing their best, could you just look the other way? Or would you stand up? Stand up tall next to everyone else and tell them you're their friend?"
"Well...something has to be done, it's true. But the way things are right now, there's no way to persuade anyone. They don't have the mind to listen. If we can find some new clue, that would likely change the situation. That's all we can hope for right now. All we can do is wait, and believe in our friends."
"Right now, our top priority needs to be uncovering Sakura's killer. If we can't do that, we're all dead."
"We have to find out who killed Sakura. For those of us still alive, and to honor Sakura's memory..."
"That's enough fighting. We need to focus on the investigation from here on out. Everyone, keep this in mind. If we can't uncover Sakura's killer... ...all of us face execution."
"Each person needs to come to their own conclusions, so that everyone can have confidence in the outcome."
"I do trust you, to a degree. Otherwise, I wouldn't have told you anything to begin with."
"If something catches your eye, it's important for you to explore that in detail, don't you think?"
"Standing around here isn't going to do any good. Let's get going."
"No, I'm not "into" dead bodies. What I'm "into" is solving mysteries."
"I'm amazed you of all people would miss such a vital clue. A truly grave oversight..."
"We don't all act according to calculations and cost-benefit diagrams. That's what makes us so complicated. That's what you don't understand, and that's why you couldn't solve this case. See? Didn't I tell you? When you dismiss other people's feelings, it'll always come back to bite you in the end."
"She didn't end her own life because she was weak. Quite the opposite, in fact... She was strong. *Too* strong. That's why she killed herself. She chose death for herself in order to protect the rest of us. To sacrifice so much... No normal person could do that. It was only her limitless strength that made it possible."
Chapter 5:

"But it doesn't matter. Either way, the truth will make itself clear before we're done."
"Can you really be sure that life here has been filled with only the worst things?"
"If you spend all your time trying to avoid danger, you'll never move forward. We know the danger. But if that risk means solving the mystery, we have no choice. Am I wrong?"
"I can't change how I feel, and wouldn't if I could."
"I'm not planning on dying. But there's always a chance of it, and a death without meaning is...unappealing."
"Right now I just want to focus on surviving our current situation. Because this is probably the single most crucial moment so far me."
"If you vote for me, and I die here, the mystery of this school will stay hidden forever. Which is why...I can't let that happen!"
"I don't expect you to forgive me. I know this is all my fault..."
"What I'm saying is, you shouldn't have underestimated us."
"I can hear them, you know. The footsteps of the god of death."
Chapter 6:

"There was a time when being a detective was considered a sacred duty. My family's always seen it that way."
"A detective is neither light nor shadow. We represent neither justice nor evil. That is how we uncover the absolute truth. We stand neutral in all things. And to do that, we have to stand separate from the rest of society. Which is why we've made a conscious effort to conceal our existence. It's kind of old-fashioned, and I can't say it's entirely rational... But it's our family creed, and we do what we must to protect it. Because, like I said, it's our source of pride."
"If that's true, then I need to thank him. Thank him for leaving me... Because unlike him, I take pride in the work I do. I take pride in my family name."
"Our only connection is through blood, nothing more. Are we connected by heart and soul? No. Is blood really enough to call someone family?"
"But when Makoto chose to overlook my lie, your plan came crashing down. The results of the trial weren't at all what you were expecting. Because you never imagined that in that position, one person would protect another like that."
"You never imagined the possibility of a being that could come to our aid even after you'd "killed" it."
"I don't have any right now, but with a little more time I guarantee I'll find some. Because no matter how deeply you try to bury it, there is only ever one absolute truth."
"If Makoto really was the killer, he never would have come to you willingly like this. He would have feared for his life, feared another execution. He would have tried to run and hide. He would have been gripped by the despair you so love to inspire. But here we are—confronting you with nothing but hope in our hearts."
"It's time for one last showdown—one final battle between hope...and despair! Well? That would make for a proper climax, wouldn't you say?"
"Don't thank me just yet. The real battle is still ahead of us." (to Makoto)
"Well, presenting a strong demeanor is a fundamental part of negotiation and persuasion, wouldn't you say? Plus, if I'd showed my uneasiness, that would have just made you that much more uneasy."
"Anyway, we can't relax just yet. All we've done is earn another chance to fight. We have to win this time. Or everything we've gone through will have been for nothing..."
"There's no time to indulge in an extended happy reunion."
"You've probably guessed already, but if we lose this time...everyone dies."
"I mean, working together with everyone seems like the most obvious way to solve all the mysteries..."
"Makoto...no matter what it takes, we *have* to uncover the truth. By any means necessary..."
"I need to...get my emotions in order."
"I can solve this mystery on my own, without whatever hints he may have to offer."
"A detective doesn't have supernatural powers. There's no way to predict the answer from the beginning. Instead, the ideal detective begins by imagining as many possible scenarios as they can. They envision these possibilities without prejudice, without bias, using only their logic and common sense. Then, as they investigate, they test what they find against each of these possibilities. Of course, me telling you this doesn't mean you'll be any good at detective work. But beyond using that to solve this particular mystery, you should keep it in mind for the future."
"When it comes to the mastermind, there's no room in my heart for forgiveness. I swore to destroy the mastermind. This is just one more reason to follow through on that."
"But keep this in mind... There is only ever one absolute truth. Whether that truth serves justice or suffering... Whether it's the greatest truth, or the worst... Even if the truth you uncover is filled with hopelessness... ...you still can't give up hope."
"No human language can describe the disappointment I'm feeling right now."
"Insane or not, we can't move forward until you accept it. Am I right? I know it sounds absurd, but...if it's the truth, there's nothing we can do about it."
"Everyone, calm down. There's no reason to panic."
"Turning your own despair into some kind of fetish... Abnormality doesn't even begin to describe it."
"I didn't really know my father, so I can't pretend to know what he was thinking. But even if we're just connected by blood, there's one thing I *am* sure of... He would never want us to abandon Makoto and choose to stay here. I can't explain why, exactly. But if I'm sure of anything, I'm sure of that... Just because we don't actually know anything, does that mean we can't understand...? Could it be that...? ...No, never mind. So, Makoto... I don't think you wound up at this school because you had good luck or bad luck... I think you came here for a different reason entirely... You came here to bring down the Ultimate Despair. You came here to confront despair without ever giving up. And if that's true, I think we could call you...the Ultimate Hope. What do you think?"
"Let's pin an end to these trials. Put an end to the killing... ...with our own hands."
"You said that despair is as contagious as any disease. But the same is true of hope. All you have to do is look at us to see how true that is."
Epilogue:

"We can't just stand around like this forever. At some point, we need to leave."
"Anyway, don't worry. I have no doubt that we'll be able to leave here without a problem."
"The act of searching for hope, to try and find it—that by itself is the true meaning of hope. As long as you have that hope, you can keep moving forward no matter what trouble you may fall into. Is that what you mean, Makoto?"
"Come on, Makoto. Even if everyone in the outside world is gone... Even if the world is steeped in despair... As long as I have people like you around, I can face forward and keep moving. If we can get out there and do something, have some sort of impact..."
"I can't say I'm sorry about what happened, but still... It does feel kind of strange..."
Creation and 
Kyoko Kirigiri Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
Character designer Rui Komatsuzaki has stated that Kyoko was one the most difficult female character to create in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc. It was decided by the team that she would have the image of a mysterious girl, so she was originally planned to have a toneless, monotone color scheme, but that needed to be altered after the game's direction changed to the Psycho Pop art-style and so her color scheme was changed to a pastel purple. Her early design prominently featured a school uniform with overalls because Komatsuzaki wanted it to have a rarer design than the other female characters, but this was later changed to a simple blouse and skirt. Her gloves were always a part of her design from the planning stages to give her the air of a detective, so her double-breasted jacket was added to compliment the detective look.

Komatsusaki had difficulties deciding which hairstyle to chose for Kyoko, and was torn between a shorter style or a longer one. It was suggested by producer Yoshinori Terasawa that Kyoko could have an symbolic hair cutting scene in the first game, but the idea was ultimately rejected and so Kyoko's hair remained long. Because Kyoko is the replacement deuteragonist after Sayaka's death, Komatsuzaki wanted Kyoko's design to closely parallel Sayaka's, and their similar hairstyles in different shades was a deliberate choice. 


The name "Kyōko" (響子) is composed of 響 - "echo" or "ringing" and 子 - meaning "child". Her name fits her composed, quiet speech and how, during the trials, she more than once guides Makoto to conclusions she has already reached herself and lets him be the one to voice them.
"Kirigiri" in kanji (霧切) means "fog cutter", referring to her detective background.
In the beta version of Danganronpa, Kyoko was named Gyaru Kirigiri and was the first victim.
Kyoko shares her title, the Ultimate Detective, with Shuichi Saihara.
The very first trailer for Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls (the original release), which begins teasingly by saying that the upcoming installment of the Danganronpa series is a sports game, shows Kyoko playing basketball. The reason Kyoko was assigned this particular sport is probably because her Japanese voice actress, Yōko Hikasa, is known for her role in the basketball-themed series Ro-Kyu-Bu! as Saki Nagatsuka. Hikasa is also part of a five-girl pop group of the same name along with four of her fellow voice actress who also portrays a part of the series' main cast.
Girls Gun 2 x Danganronpa Game Kyoko Kirigiri
Kyoko in the collaboration.

Kyoko is included in the collaboration of Danganronpa 3 and Guns Girl Z.
She is one of the few characters to have participated in two killing games and survived. The others are Makoto, Aoi, and Hajime/Izuru.
Kyoko's English voice actress, Erika Harlacher, also voices Kaede Akamatsu in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Main article: Ultra Despair Hagakure and Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Leon was very close to his cousin, Kanon Nakajima, since they were very young. Leon's father was the older brother of Kanon's father. Kanon was in love with Leon throughout their childhood, and repeatedly tried to get him to notice her feelings for him, although he only ever saw her as a little sister. In middle school, Leon became a very skilled baseball player, and Kanon became the manager of his baseball team so she could watch him play. He was an ace in his position as the fourth batter at his school. Leon later attended LL Academy high school. To win a heart of a girl that he happened to meet at the hair salon, he became determined to change his title to Ultimate Musician. His hair and clothing style changed completely.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Class Photo of Mondo, Leon, and ChihiroLeon was scouted by Hope's Peak Academy for his title of Ultimate Baseball Star. In photos found by Makoto Naegi, Leon is seen roughhousing with Mondo Owada and Chihiro Fujisaki and participating in sports events with his classmates during his time there.
The 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc #11
Taka, Leon, Mondo, ChihiroDuring the Tragedy, Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. The class agreed to his plan, and they sealed the building together. Leon helped his classmates seal up the windows. The students lived peacefully inside the school building for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.
Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Leon was among those who were chosen to attend Hope's Peak Academy as part of Class 78th. Class 78th ended up being trapped inside the school, not knowing at the time that they had already been memory-wiped of their two years of school life together. Leon is around 19 years old, though he believed was only 17 because of the memory loss.

When introducing himself to his classmates, Leon immediately expresses that despite his title of Ultimate Baseball Star, his real ambition is to become the vocalist of a band.

The students soon became forced into the mutual killing incident. As an incentive to murder in order to escape, the students were each given a DVD featuring a video from Monokuma which implied that their loved ones were in danger. Leon's video showed his cousin, Kanon, and after watching it, Leon became very agitated.

Sayaka's 
Danganronpa 1 Sayaka's NoteOn the day the students received the motivational DVDs, Sayaka Maizono sent Leon a note instructing him to meet her in her room. Unbeknownst to Leon, Sayaka had switched rooms with Makoto Naegi, and also switched their doorplates to disguise what she had done. When Leon entered the room, Sayaka attacked him with a kitchen knife she had taken from the kitchen. Leon managed to defend himself with an ornamental golden sword that Makoto had been storing in his room. He broke Sayaka's wrist with the sword, disarming her in the process.
Sayaka fled into the bathroom and closed the door. Leon did not know that Makoto's bathroom door was misaligned, and needed to be lifted while the handle was turned in order to open it. Because girls' rooms are the only rooms with lockable bathroom doors, and believed this to be Sayaka's room, Leon thought the room was simply locked and so left to go and retrieve his tool kit. When he returned, he destroyed the door handle. He then retrieved the kitchen knife that Sayaka had dropped and stabbed her in the stomach, killing her.

Afterwards he tried to clean the crime scene, using Makoto's lint roller to dispose of all of his distinctive red hair. He then went to the trash room, balled up his bloodied shirt and threw it into the incinerator. He turned the incinerator on by throwing Yasuhiro Hagakure's crystal ball at the activation switch. He did not realize that one of his sleeves did not fully burn, and instead fell onto the floor of the trash room, leaving behind evidence.

Leon's 
Leon Kuwata Halfbody Sprite (10)In the class trial, Makoto was able to pinpoint Leon as the culprit based on three major factors. Firstly, Sayaka had managed to write "11037" on the wall in blood with the last of her strength before she died; when flipped upside down, this revealed the name "LEON". Secondly, the method of disposing of the evidence was a feat only achievable by someone with extremely accurate aim in order to hit the activation button on the incinerator from such a significant distance; a skill only the Ultimate Baseball Star had. Finally, Leon had used his toolkit to break into Makoto's bathroom, and was unable to show it to the others because it would have been the only toolkit that showed evidence of being used. The students found Leon guilty, and he was sentenced to be executed by Monokuma.
Unwilling to accept his sentence, Leon begged Monokuma not to kill him, and tried to justify his actions as self-defense. However, Celestia Ludenberg pointed out that Leon could have returned to his room and stayed there after Sayaka shut herself in the bathroom, but instead he actively chose to return to Sayaka's room with his toolkit in order to attack her.

Leon is executed by being pummeled to death by baseballs shot out of a pitching machine in an execution called The 1,000 Blows.

Danganronpa 1 Chapter 1 Execution
Danganronpa 1 Chapter 1 Execution

Post-Killing School 
Makoto's 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc #11
Kuwata and Ishimaru's deathLeon is seen alongside his deceased classmates in Makoto's hallucination after he was brainwashed by the Suicide Video. Leon is later seen motionless, with a badly bruised, bloody and swelled face, when all of the deceased Class 78th morph into how they looked when they died in the Killing School Life.
Nagito Komaeda's Illusory 
Main article: Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no Hakaimono

Super Danganronpa 2.5 Komaeda BaseballLeon appeared in Nagito Komaeda's imaginary world, accidentally breaking the infirmary window and worsening Nagito's injuries. As an apology, he let Nagito have his baseball and autographed it with his name.
Much later, Nagito used Leon's baseball to destroy an entire building, which led him to break loose from his imagination world and eventually wake up from the Neo World Program.

Creation and 
Leon Beta DevelopmentLeon's beta name was Kazuo Matsuzaki (松崎和雄), likely a reference to real-life baseball player Kazuo Matsui, who was the first Japanese infielder to sign with a Major League Baseball team. The character designer, Rui Komatsuzaki, is a fan of the punk genre, so Leon's outfit was designed with details he personally likes.
Leon was the first character to be designed, so Komatsuzaki used him to design the range of expressions available during Class Trials.All other characters' expressions were designed with Leon's expressions as a reference.Leon and Sayaka were both used as the game's base male and female characters, respectively, to establish a base body type and height. They were both used as stand-ins during many stages of development, and their character designs are very recognizable as early as the scrapped project DISTRUST. As a result of both of their designs being relatively unchanged from the early design stages, the development team grew tired of them and so they were the first characters to be killed in the final published game.Leon's execution, The 1,000 Blows, was virtually unchanged from the version seen in the DISTRUST promotional presentation other than the artstyle.

Leon Kuwata Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
Leon beta designs
Die Kazuo Matsuzaki Die
Die Kazuo Matsuzaki Die
The 1000 Blows artstyle comparison
Execution art style comparison.

Leon (怜恩) can be translated as "Cunning Kindness". Kuwata (桑田) simply means "Mulberry Field".

Alternate 
Sonia-Nevermind-Pixel-for-Jpn-Template	The section below is based on non-localized content only available in Japanese.
As such, this information is based on fan-contributed translation.

The Danganronpa 3 box set included a feature detailing an alternate ending of Danganronpa called Danganronpa Another End which ultimately never made it out of the development phase. In this ending, all of the students escape, at the cost of giving up their talent forever. In Leon's ending, he is thrilled to be able to legitimately give up his baseball talent in exchange to become a musician.

Leon also escapes Hope's Peak alive before the Killing Game begins, with the rest of his classmates, in the novel Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc IF.


 Leon has dyed orange spiked hair, a goatee, and pale blue eyes. He wears a white blazer jacket with a popped collar, a white shirt with a red grunge skull design, dark blue jeans and white platform shoes with a black sole. He accessorizes with a padlocked chain necklace, two overlapping studded belts, rings, and an oversized safety pin on his lapel. He has several piercings - his labret, his tongue, and six in his right ear.
When he was practicing baseball, he wore a standard baseball jersey with his number, 18, and his family name, Kuwata, on the back. He had a shaved hairstyle, which is "traditional" according to him. 
DR1 Present 104 Leon's UndergarmentsHis underwear is described as "sports underoos", and are a pair of men's athletic black boxers.

Leon is a passionate, hot-blooded young teenager. He often slacks off from studying and baseball practice; however, his baseball skills were never diminished due to his status as Ultimate Baseball Star. Leon is also very determined to change his current title to Ultimate Musician. In Leon's Free Time sequence, the reason for that determination is revealed: to win a heart of a girl that he happened to meet at the hair salon. Later, Leon himself states that he somewhat missed playing baseball; something that he used to do every day since he was young. He even invited Makoto to play baseball with him once they get out of their current situation.

During the main story, Leon is shown to be easily intimidated and agitated, such as when Makoto spends time with him for the first time and he thinks it's a trap to kill him, or during the first class trial when he asks and finds out who Sakura Ogami is. When he becomes nervous or intimidated, Leon tends to smile awkwardly, often the right corner of his mouth stretching farther.

In the official artbook, Leon is described as an optimist who wants to get better at everything he does. He is also mentioned to be a player, and he had a new girl with him every few days. He is always flirting with girls and he's single-mindedly focused on studying "the secret of success with the ladies". He's also mentioned to be into pure-hearted girls.

In School Mode, Leon is portrayed as easily offended; for example, when asked how he managed to style his hair, he immediately becomes annoyed, automatically accusing Makoto of making fun of it and saying he should shave his hair like his baseball team made him do. He also can come off as impatient and agitated at times, like instantly becoming angry and snapping at Makoto for not knowing what to talk about. School Mode also shows that whenever he's upset or depressed, Leon likes to take naps. According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Leon can't stand the heat and hot weather.


Ultimate Baseball 
Danganronpa 1 Leon Kuwata English Game IntroductionLeon is a natural born baseball star despite his hatred towards baseball practice. His only motivation to play baseball is to become famous with girls. It also helps him to continue his school life without studying hard and taking the entrance exam. Leon's talent in baseball surpasses even his coach and teacher's pride who begged him to play so that the team could win a quick and easy win. He states that he never needs to practice because baseball is so easy to him. His pitch is clocked at 160 kilometers per hour.
Leon proves his skills with his talent during his murder of Sayaka when he threw a crystal ball through the Trash Room gate to activate a small button on the incinerator at nearly thirty feet away, followed by throwing his own blood-stained shirt into the small opening.

In Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, during one of Nekomaru Nidai's Free Time Events and the Prologue, he mentions a baseball star he used to train that went on to become extremely popular, heavily implying it's Leon.

In other 
Leon's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

Ultimate Baseball Star
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「野球選手」	Super High School Level Baseball Player
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"棒球選手"	Super High School Level Baseball Player
中文超高校级的"棒球选手"	Super High School Level Baseball Player(DRtA)
Français La Star de Baseball Ultime	Ultimate Baseball Star (DRV3)
DeutschSuper-Baseball-Spieler	Super Baseball Player (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Promessa del Baseball Liceale	Super High School Level Baseball Prodigy(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Promesa del Béisbol	Super High School Student Level: Baseball Promise (DRtA)
"Ultimate Musician"
As seen in his Dorm Room, he has an amp and electric guitar, his skills with it, however, are unknown. His goal is to be the lead vocalist of a band, and was seeking out a song writer.

He seems to be knowledgeable about some aspects of the musical scene. During his Free Time he makes several references to real world bands. He claims he "doesn't wanna be a George, ya know? Gotta get that Paul action", referring to the British band The Beatles, he also states he wants to be like punk bands The Damned, The Clash, and The Sex Pistols.

He follows up during a Free Time Event with "if you're in a punk band, it doesn't matter if you can play or not", implying he's not very good.


Family:
Kanon 
Kanon is Leon's younger cousin, and is two years younger than him. He viewed Kanon as his little sister and the two had a very close relationship since childhood. She constantly confessed her feelings to him, but he always responded he just didn't like her that way. It did not seem her never-ending confessions affect his view of her, but he cared for her and comforted her whenever he rejected her. He also has a lot of belief in her, believing that she could throw a 160 meters per hour ball, despite the fact that the Japanese record for women was 140. By the time of the School Life of Mutual Killing, Kanon was chosen as his Captive, being his most important person.

Kanon is mentioned by Leon in Danganronpa V3's bonus mode, as he states that he has sometimes thought about bringing his cousin a souvenir for the family's New Year's meeting. He asks Kirumi Tojo's help to plan the gift, though he says she would be pleased with any gift. He mentions being a good "big brother", indicating that he still only sees her as a little sister figure.

Class 78th:
Sayaka 
Though the two are not seen interacting much during the killing game, Leon quickly developed a strong interest in Sayaka. In one of his Free Time Events, he asked Makoto about "what kinda guy Sayaka is into". In relationship charts featured in the Danganronpa 1.2 Reload art book, Leon admires how cute she is and considers her a "pure-hearted girl", which is a type he is into. Sayaka takes a note of that she is his type with a slight smile and blush. Leon is also shocked to find out that Sayaka is Makoto's "assistant", appearing jealous. However, considering Leon's womanizing nature, it's most likely his attraction to her was nothing more than a physical one.

Later, when Sayaka chose Leon as her murder victim, her plan backfired as he was able to defend himself, which led her to flee to the bathroom. Though he claimed it was only self-defense, Leon made a conscious decision to counter-attack and murdered the girl. Leon's interest in her could explain why he trusted her so easily and went to see her alone during the killing game, and might be the reason why Sayaka chose him as her target.

In Danganronpa: The Animation, there was a school photo of the Class 78th together showing Leon with his arm placed behind Sayaka on her chair of which she is perfectly comfortable with, this friendly gesture could imply that they were good friends during high school at Hope's Peak Academy.

In the non-canonical manga version of the game, Leon and Sayaka had a closer, quite different relationship, due to their similarities with music, and the circumstances of Sayaka's death differ from the game. It is also implied that during the after Sayaka attacked him, Leon only wanted to calm Sayaka down when she locked herself in the bathroom, which is why he broke in. When he broke into the bathroom, however, he claims that he only accidentally stabbed Sayaka in the stomach, which resulted in her death, contrary to deliberately stabbing her as he did in the game.

Makoto 
During his free-time events, Leon shared a lot of experiences with Makoto and even invited him for a baseball match after they escaped the academy. Makoto didn't hold a grudge against Leon for killing Sayaka because he felt that the one at fault was Monokuma.

Mondo Owada and Chihiro 
Even though Leon almost never showed close interaction in the Killing School Life, Leon may have been good friends with Mondo and Chihiro during their school time in Class 78th, as a picture of the three laughing was found shortly after their deaths. However, according to Leon and Mondo's relationship chart in the Danganronpa 1.2 Reload Artbook, this is contrasted with Mondo believing him to be a moron and Leon believing his style doesn't make him look popular. Chihiro, however, positively pointed out Leon's high confidence in himself, hinting Chihiro may have looked up to him at one point.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Leon Kuwata & School Mode/Leon Kuwata
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Leon in order to learn more about him. If he gives him a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and he will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Leon's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

1234Dead
Leon Kuwata Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Heavy Metal	Pop	Punk
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 17 Everlasting Bracelet DR1 Present 21 Blueberry Perfume DR1 Present 33 Jimmy Decay Tshirt DR1 Present 68 Project Zombie

Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Leon grants the following skills:

Robot Jock	Increases your Truth Bullet rate of fire. Effective during the Nonstop Debate and the Bullet Time Final Strike.	3 SP
Kinetic Depth Perception	During concentration, automatically targets the weak spot. Effective during the Nonstop Debate.	2 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Leon KuwataLeon's room reflects his passion for music, despite his talent of Ultimate Baseball Star. He has a large shelf full of CDs, a CD player, an electric guitar and amplifier, over-ear headphones, and a microphone on a stand. The framed art on the wall is labeled "reon" (leon), and features a skull with a wound in the head, as his shirt does - it's possible this is a logo for the band he dreams of performing in.

DR1ExtraNovel
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"Yo! The name's Leon Kuwata. What's up?"
"My only path in life is getting into music! You can feel that star-quality aura I have, right? I'm gonna be a singer, so all I need is a songwriter and someone on guitar, and we're set! This new version of me that's chasing after my dream is, like...super cool to the max!"
"I don't care if the school or whoever else is behind it all, this is just a really bad joke."
Chapter 1:

"Goddamn, calm down! You're starting to make me nervous!"
"There's gotta be *something* we can do..."
"Anyway, there's nothing to do around here. Gonna friggin' die of boredom... And being stuck in here is keeping me from racing toward my dream, too."
"Yeah! To become a musician! You can sense my aura, right? The strongest vocals of the century right here! God, I feel so cool getting to say that in front of a national celebrity..."
"No way in hell am I letting someone kill me...! Alright, dammit! Let's do this!"
"Well, I did *my* job. I'm counting on the rest of you from here on out!"
"Well we can talk all we want, it's not gonna change *that* conclusion."
"But if the only choice you have is to break it, you break it! There's nothing "bewildering" about it!"
"I'm the killer!? You can't just go and say shit like that!"
"Do I object...? Hell yes I object! Of course I do! I object, I object, I object I mean, all of this is just a bunch of stupid theories! You need evidence! Where's the evidence!? Without evidence, it's all bullshit! It's bullshit and I refuse to acknowledge it!"
"I refuse to acknowledge you! You're stupid! Stupid! Stupid stupid stupid! Stupidstupidstupidstupidstupidstupidstupid!!!"
"I-I didn't have a choice... It was kill or be killed! S-So that's why...I killed her first. None of you are any different! One wrong step, and you'd be the one standing here! It was complete chance that I wound up like this! I was just...unlucky! That's all..."
List of 
GamesAnimeLight NovelsMangaStage Plays
DISTRUST (scrapped)
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa: Unlimited Battle

Notable Trivia specifically about his execution, The 1,000 Blows:
Due to the brutality of it, it was censored in the Danganronpa: The Animation when it first aired on television. However, on the anime DVD, the execution can be seen uncensored.
The design on Leon's shirt foreshadows his fate, as it depicts a skull being shattered from a heavy blow.
The Execution the same execution he undergoes in DISTRUST, the prototype of the first Danganronpa game. This explains why his execution is more brutal and gruesome compared to the others.
Leon's former high school, LL Academy, might be a reference to Little League.
In the Danganronpa 1 (Trial Version), unlike the actual Bullet Time Battle with Leon that happens in the end of the first class trial, the player will engage in a Bullet Time Battle at the beginning of the trial when Leon accuses Makoto of being the killer because he stutters multiple times.
Leon's English voice actor, Grant George is married to Sakura Ogami's English voice actress, Jessica Gee-George.
His voice actor also voices Shuichi Saihara in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Mondo Owada riding with his motorcycle gang
Mondo grew up in a normal family environment, having a Maltese dog named Chuck who he loved deeply, as well as a known mother. Chuck used to bring in the newspaper every morning when it was delivered to Mondo's home and would always beg Mondo for walks each day but died at the age of nine sometime during Mondo's childhood. He was seemingly raised with high moral values due to Mondo stating his mother would be angry with him if he were to hit a girl.

He became dedicated to biking when he was young, being first allowed to ride with The Crazy Diamonds through his older brother Daiya Owada who invited him into the gang. Mondo was inspired by his older brother to take up biking and helped continue to transform The Crazy Diamonds into a well-known biker gang. From then on both brothers were known as The Diamond Brothers, a well-known name across Japan. Mondo constantly lived in Daiya's shadow. When he first began riding he ended up at the back of the group which ended in him being caught by the police, causing a scuffle. Despite this Mondo was still able to rise through the ranks with perseverance and patience.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Mondo Owada and Daiya Owada final race (5)Mondo became the second leader of the Crazy Diamonds, after his older brother Daiya at which time the group was now Japan's fiercest and largest Biker gang. When it came for the day Daiya would retire and hand over leadership to his younger brother, Mondo challenged him to a race on his retirement party to prove he was worthy to take the helm after the gang members refused to put their trust in him. However during the race Mondo became reckless and went head-on into oncoming traffic, Daiya pushed Mondo's motorcycle aside in place of his own to protect him and ended up dying in a collision with another vehicle. Despite Mondo being devastated, it was Daiya's final wish that he continues to lead the Crazy Diamonds and not blame himself for the accident. Mondo did not tell the gang members that he caused his brothers death and continued to maintain the Crazy Diamonds as the best gang in Japan.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Class Photo of Mondo, Leon, and ChihiroMondo attended First Volcano High School and was later scouted by Hope's Peak Academy as part of Class 78th which he accepted, the reason for this being that he was escaping the fear of losing the Crazy Diamonds, something that had been a constant part of his life. After keeping his gang at the top, Mondo felt the need to look for other aspirations as the other gang members intended to do upon graduating from The Crazy Diamonds and High School themselves. It is implied Mondo made the head of the elite guard for the Crazy Diamonds Takemichi Yukimaru the interim leader of the gang during his time at Hope's Peak Academy, as his most trusted and closest friend following Daiya's death he believed this was the correct replacement.
The 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc #11
Taka, Leon, Mondo, ChihiroDuring The Tragedy, Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. The students of Class 78th agreed to his plan, and they sealed the building together. Mondo helped carry a piece of metal which he received from Chihiro. The students lived peacefully inside the school building for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.
Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa 1 CG - Students at the School EntranceMondo was among those who were chosen to attend Hope's Peak Academy as part of Class 78th. He, along with his fellow classmates, ended up being trapped inside the school, not knowing at the time that they had already been memory-wiped of their two years of school life together. Mondo is around 19 years old, though he believed that he was only 17 because of the memory loss.
When Makoto Naegi introduces himself, he immediately becomes fearful of Mondo, due to his tough biker persona. Makoto made sure to speak loosely with Mondo in order to not cause an argument or an aggressive confrontation, seeing him as the kind of person to become easily irritable and on edge.

The students soon became forced into the mutual killing incident. As an incentive to murder in order to escape, the students were each given a DVD featuring a video from Monokuma which implied that their loved ones were in danger. Mondo's video showed his closest friend and interim leader of the Crazy Diamonds, Takemichi, and after watching it, Mondo became very concerned.

After the first Mutual Killing Incident, the murder of Sayaka Maizono, Mondo is nominated alongside Sakura Ogami to stand watch over the crime scene in order to prevent tampering with the evidence.

Boy's Life of 
Danganronpa the Animation (Episode 04) - Fight in the Library (066)When Byakuya Togami was found in the library after his sudden disappearance, he began to bully Chihiro Fujisaki, causing Mondo to interject that it was unfair to bully those that couldn't fight back. Although well-intentioned, Mondo's statement greatly demoralized Chihiro.

The next morning, the students gathered in the Cafeteria. Chihiro, still feeling down due to the events that transpired the day before, began crying after Mondo's argument with Kiyotaka Ishimaru. Taken aback by Chihiro's reaction, Mondo immediately regretted his actions and made Chihiro a "promise as a man" to refrain from acting in an intimidatory and derogatory manner around him. Following the words of his brother Daiya, he explained that he would keep this promise to Chihiro no matter the circumstances.

Later during night time, Mondo challenged Kiyotaka to an endurance contest in the sauna to see who was stronger. This was due to Kiyotaka's derogatory comments about Mondo's true strength, alluding to it being a façade. The two then competed with each other and the next morning ended up forming a "manly bond" in friendship.

Mondo's 
Mondo reads letterMonokuma introduced his second motive, a set of envelopes containing each student's most embarrassing memories and shameful secrets. Mondo's envelope contained the note "Mondo Owada was the cause of death for his brother, Daiya Owada". Mondo did not want his weakness to be uncovered, following a pact between him and Daiya that could never be revealed if the Crazy Diamonds were to stay intact. Chihiro on the other hand, instead of feeling scared became even more determined to change and become stronger so that he could tell his secret. He concluded that he should share his secret with Mondo, whom Chihiro admired, by inviting him to go work out together at the gym to which Mondo agreed.
Chihiro met up with Mondo in the boy's changing room and revealed his secret to him. He explained that he did not want to be weak but instead wanted to face his fears and be strong no matter the cost. As Mondo was still feeling pressured by Monokuma's threat, the sudden revelation caused Mondo to be overcome by jealousy toward Chihiro; Mondo felt that by choosing to keep his secret hidden in order to hide his own failures, Chihiro was stronger in character than himself, whereas Mondo felt hopelessly overwhelmed by survivor's guilt and intense, irrational feelings of weakness. Mondo's typical persona to others was that of strength and manliness and convincing himself of having these qualities only became more and more of a burden to him, especially when the possibility of having his secret revealed became imminent.

Mondo kills chihiro fujisakiUltimately, that intense jealousy and envy he felt turned into murderous anger, and Mondo hit Chihiro in the head with a dumbbell, killing him.
Mondo realized he had to move Chihiro out of the boys' locker room in order to guard Chihiro's secret, and so carried his body into the girl's locker room, which he opened using Sayaka's discarded e-Handbook. He then swapped the contents of the locker rooms so that it appeared Chihiro had been murdered in the girl's locker room. He disposed of Chihiro's bag and then broke Chihiro's e-Handbook by throwing it into the sauna so that if another student turned it on it wouldn't reveal Chihiro's gender. The only reason Mondo went to such lengths to keep Chihiro's secret safe was due to a promise between men that he did not want to break, and possible atonement for his act of irrational thought.

Mondo's 
Mondo Owada Oowada Halfbody Sprite (18) In the class trial, Makoto was able to pinpoint Mondo as the culprit based on two major factors. Kyoko Kirigiri was able to draw out a slip of the tongue from Mondo by referring specifically to the jacket and its connection with the culprit, most notably its coloration. Kyoko implied that Chihiro had picked out a specific colored tracksuit presumably for training with someone who would be wearing the same, Mondo made sure to testify that his tracksuit was black while Chihiro's was blue and presumed this was sufficient.

However Celestia Ludenberg had only testified earlier during the class trial that she had seen Chihiro stuff a tracksuit into a duffle bag but did not specify the color, the fact that Mondo mentioned the color of Chihiro's tracksuit proved he was there at the time of the murder as Celeste further testified that the tracksuit was indeed blue. Mondo tried to craft an excuse as to why he knew such information, that Chihiro walked by him and was carrying the blue tracksuit in his hands, however, Chihiro had made an effort to hide the tracksuit in the duffle bag and so Mondo's words proved false. Kyoko had picked up on Mondo referring to Chihiro as 'dude' rather than 'chick' earlier in the trial which furthered her suspicions that Mondo knew something that the rest of the class didn't and she was able to manipulate him into proving his guilt. This alone wasn't enough to convict Mondo of the crime as sufficient proof was needed.

DR1 CH2 Closing Arguement 13Hifumi Yamada revealed he had found a broken e-Handbook in the sauna, which was presumed to be Chihiro's given the fact his was missing from the crime scene. Mondo had recently partaken in an endurance contest with Kiyotaka in the sauna and Mondo had left his clothes on with the e-Handbook in his pocket. This caused it to break under the extreme temperature, Mondo had discovered the e-Handbook's weakness and had used this knowledge to destroy Chihiro's e-Handbook and replaced his own damaged e-Handbook with Leon Kuwata's so no one would suspect he had discovered the e-Handbook's weakness. However, when Makoto requested everyone show each other their e-Handbook's, Mondo had no choice but to concede as the class would discover he did indeed have Leon's. Mondo admitted to killing Chihiro and the students voted Mondo guilty, he was then sentenced to be executed by Monokuma.
Mondo did largely regret his actions and admitted to doing something horrible that he could not take back, his rash actions were purely out of his control but his willingness to keep Chihiro's secret safe at the cost of possibly losing the class trial was testament to his good nature and he requests Monokuma begin with the voting rather than defending his own actions any longer.

Mondo is executed in a death cage, tied to the back of a Crazy Diamonds motorcycle with no means of escaping. Spinning at such a fast rate inside the cage causes Mondo to be electrocuted to a point of liquefying into a butter-like substance that is packaged as "Mondo Butter", which is later eaten by Monokuma after The Cage of Death execution.

Danganronpa 1 Chapter 2 Execution
Danganronpa 1 Chapter 2 Execution

Makoto's 
Main Article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc #11.
Oowada and Fujisaki's deathMondo is seen alongside his deceased classmates in Makoto's hallucination. Mondo is later seen resembling liquid butter, his coat lying upon it, all the deceased of Class 78th morph into how they looked when they died in the Killing School Life.
Creation and 
Mondo Owada Beta Designs 1.2 Reload ArtbookMondo's basic design did not undergo a drastic change between DISTRUST and Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc, most examples of the in-development art of Mondo feature the same manly biker gang figure however some of his designs feature a thinner and slender build as oppose to a robust and bulky one. Many unusual male hairstyles were trialed all mostly following the same theme of a punch perm but in different styles. Versions including a frontal spike, a curled frontal spike, a frontal spike with his hair individually spiked at the sides, and one shaped like a revolver. The only style differing was a pompadour spiked in the middle. His uniform remained mostly unchanged, sharing the same style outfit - black buttoned overcoat, white A-shirt, baggy black pants.The changes between DISTRUST and Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc did include an added belt to hold up Mondo's baggy black pants and white loafers rather than black.

"Mondo" (紋土) translates to "family crest" and "earth/soil". "Owada" (大和田) is a combination of the kanji 大 - "big", 和 - "peace", and 田 - "rice field", meaning it could be translated as "big rice field of peace". This is an ironic name for someone such as Mondo, who reflects a boisterous type persona however his first name does relate to the prestigious family name he has inherited during his leadership of the Crazy Diamonds, helping his brother to create the gang from scratch. The names of the Owada brothers, when put together (as DaiyaMondo; ダイアモンド) means "diamond" in Japanese, which is possibly why Mondo stated that he and Daiya were referred to as the Diamond Brothers.

Alternate 
Sonia-Nevermind-Pixel-for-Jpn-Template	The section below is based on non-localized content only available in Japanese.
As such, this information is based on fan-contributed translation.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Everyone escapes (Another End) (2)The Danganronpa 3 box set included a feature detailing an alternate ending of Danganronpa called Danganronpa Another End which ultimately never made it out of the development phase. In this ending, all of the students escape, at the cost of giving up their talent forever. In Mondo's ending, he decided to retire from the Crazy Diamonds and resolves to become a carpenter, inquiring if his brother Daiya will be okay with his choice. In this scenario, his brother is not yet dead.
Mondo also escapes Hope's Peak alive, with the rest of his classmates, in the novel Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc IF.


Mondo is 6'2" and weighs 168lbs. He has a tall stature and muscular build which gives him a bulky figure. He also has chiseled facial features, such as clearly defined cheekbones, which makes him appear more manly and rough. This is why many perceive Mondo as strong, despite not yet knowing his defined character. He has an unusual, dark-brown punch perm with a slight variation which alters the hairstyle to what is known as an "aippa", a cross between an afro and an early 1960s pompadour. Mondo has slightly tanned skin and a deep-ridged black eye line circling his small purple eyes, which gives him an intimidating appearance. The eyelashes on the outer halves of his lower eyelids are distinctively long and this usually gives him a fierce expression.

His school uniform reflects that of a typical Japanese biker gang member (暴走族 bōsōzoku), comprising of a black overcoat known in Japan as "tokkō-fuku" (特攻服), adorned with the symbol of The Crazy Diamonds along with Japanese text and dragon symbol motifs colored orange, worn open over a white A-shirt. He wears baggy black pants held up by a belt and his shoes are white loafers. The buckle of Mondo's belt is shaped like the face of a Komainu.

DR1 Present 103 Mondo's UndergarmentsMondo's underwear has a snug fit which is ideally suited to motorbike riding. His boxer shorts have a tiger stripe pattern with a white rim and line patterning, which appears to be a reference to the tiger theme of his execution.

Behaving like a stereotypical delinquent, Mondo is foul-mouthed and can come off as a rude and an intimidating individual. When Makoto first met Mondo he did his best to keep the conversation short, as he realized Mondo could become easily aggravated depending on what was said. He is very easy to provoke, and will not hesitate to resort to violence if he starts to lose his patience. This is shown during his interactions with Byakuya who acts condescendingly towards him, prompting Mondo to fight back without considering the consequences.

Just like Chihiro, Mondo has a severe complex about being seen as weak, which he represses by constantly repeating in his mind that he is strong. This complex stems from the fact that his gang members tended to look down on him due to his status as the little brother of Daiya, the first leader of The Crazy Diamonds. Mondo ultimately caused his brothers death in a street race by acting rash in oncoming traffic, prompting Daiya to save Mondo in exchange for his own life. It was Mondo's own weakness who caused Daiya's death and this constant burden was placed on him, as he had to live with and share the lie with the rest of his members that it was Daiya who had acted rashly.

Mondo states that he tends to be very nervous around girls that he likes, causing him to raise his voice and ultimately scare them away, something that has happened at least 10 times already. This potentially shows that Mondo is shy around new people and is unaware of how to relinquish his ruffian type personality while in calmer situations.

Mondo has a soft spot for dogs and had one named Chuck during his childhood however he died at 9 years of age. When speaking with Makoto about his dog, Mondo becomes very emotional and has no choice but to leave the conversation as he was beginning to tear up. Makoto stated never seeing him in such a way before, showing a softer and emotional side to Mondo's personality that he tries to avoid presenting to others. He states in a Free Time Event that he likes both cats and dogs, but prefers dogs.

His final Free Time Event reveals his insecurities over his future. He believes that the only choice for him once high school is over is to get a job and decides that he would choose to become a carpenter since he wants to start making things instead of breaking them, showing that in a sense Mondo wishes to reform his personality and help make a difference without aggression or violence.

Talent and 
Ultimate Biker Gang 
Danganronpa 1 Mondo Owada English Game IntroductionAs the Ultimate Biker Gang Leader, Mondo possesses several skills related to his profession including physical strength, endurance, and motorcycle knowledge as well as a particular sense of honor and loyalty to his gang. Mondo built up his reputation off of his brother Daiya, who was a great motorcycle rider and leader himself. Mondo became a skilled biker but only after becoming the leader of the Crazy Diamonds and he was able to then sustain the group as the number one gang in all of Japan through time and effort. He most likely trained his own members to become skilled bikers given the fact as the leader of his gang he had to set the example in order for them to graduate.
In other 
Mondo's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

Ultimate Biker Gang Leader
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「暴走族」	Super High School Level Gang Leader
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"暴走族"	Super High School Level Biker Gang Leader
中文超高校级的"暴走族"	Super High School Level Biker Gang Leader(DRtA)
Français Le Biker Ultime	Ultimate Biker (DRV3)
DeutschSuper-Biker	Super Biker (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Centauro Liceale	Super High School Level Biker(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Motero Proscrito	Super High School Student Level: Outlaw Biker (DRtA)
Powerful Physical 
Mondo has a bulky build and a large amount of muscle which greatly aids his robustness. During the Killing School Life, Mondo showcases his powerful strength in different ways. He was able to knock Makoto unconscious with a single punch and was able to throw Monokuma to a far distance in the air despite him having a weighty mechanical structure. Despite Mondo's physical capabilities, he is only able to meet a certain threshold. When Makoto suggests he spar with Sakura, Mondo ultimately refuses due to 'not wanting to hit a girl' however Sakura is easily capable of matching if not surpassing his strength. Mondo is always willing to challenge others to a fight, such as Byakuya and Kiyotaka due to his confidence in his physical prowess.

Excellent 
Mondo requests he and Kiyotaka have an endurance contest to see who can last the longest. Both he and Kiyotaka stayed in the sauna for a considerable amount of time and Mondo even kept his clothes on, showing his large amount of endurance during high temperatures and potentially in the heat of a fight. Mondo once mentioned getting into a brawl with the police due to being too slow on his motorcycle and getting caught when he was only a new member of the Crazy Diamonds, despite a large amount of police he was still able to escape.


Family:
Daiya 
Daiya was Mondo's older brother, who founded and led the Crazy Diamonds biker gang up until the day of his death. He and his brother were participating in a motorcycle race, and Mondo became reckless while he was attempting to prove himself to the gang and Daiya.

Mondo sped into the wrong side of the road and was about to crash into an oncoming car. Just before he was struck, however, Daiya pushed him out of the way, knocking him to the side and taking the blow from the car himself.

Daiya died in Mondo's arms, telling him to not let the gang be broken up. It was a "promise between two men", which Mondo did his best to keep. When this secret is finally revealed, Mondo explains how guilty he feels for not only killing his brother but for not being able to uphold the last promise he made to Daiya.

Mondo always had high respect for his brother, challenging him to a street race for the sole purpose of proving his strength to him. He also always followed his brother's advice which was "that no matter what, a real man ALWAYS keeps his promises" and lived by this code, shown when he promised Chihiro that he wouldn't yell at him anymore.

Pet:

Chuck was Mondo's pet dog. He was very close to his pet, and often called Chuck his "baby boy". When Chuck died, Mondo was devastated and got unusually emotional whenever he thought of him.

Gang Member:
Takemichi 
Takemichi was in Mondo's biker gang. He was the elite guard of the Crazy Diamonds and Mondo's personal bodyguard, whose coolheaded nature helped Mondo with his more impulsive nature.

Apparently, he was the closest person to Mondo after his brother died and before he left to Hope's Peak Academy, confirmed by the fact that Takemichi became a Captive. Mondo was the one who personally confirmed Takemichi as interim leader of the Crazy Diamonds while during his stay at Hope's Peak Academy showing the level of trust the both of them had between each other.

Takemichi is mentioned by Mondo in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's non-canon bonus mode, Ultimate Talent Development Plan, as he explains to Kiyotaka that he had to stay up late to talk with his right hand guy who was having a rough time.

Class 78th:
Kiyotaka 
Mondo and Kiyotaka did not get along at first, which was not surprising, as Kiyotaka was the "Ultimate Moral Compass", while Mondo was the "Ultimate Biker Gang Leader". They formed a rivalry, which quickly escalated to the two spending a prolonged period of time in a high-temperature sauna. This was to show a test of manliness and strength, and whoever was to give up would be the lesser man.

However, as soon as this event was over, the next morning Mondo and Kiyotaka acted as if they had been seemingly inseparable. They would laugh together and have their arms around each other's shoulders in a "friendly" manner.

When Mondo was found guilty in the second trial, the only person who did not vote him as the culprit was Kiyotaka, who voted for himself instead. With this, it seemed like Kiyotaka was willing to have himself and everyone else die before he would let Mondo himself. He broke down, bawling and screaming, yelling and asking why he did it, clearly devastated that he was losing such a close friend.

During the third Chapter, when Kiyotaka was speaking with Alter Ego, the program changed its appearance and attitude to match that of Mondo's. Through Mondo's inspiring words, Kiyotaka then went through a self-proclaimed "transformation", in which his and Mondo's "spirits" became one. He started addressing himself as Kiyondo, which is a culmination of both his and Mondo's names.

Chihiro 
The first time they interacted, Mondo lunged at Byakuya for making Chihiro cry. Mondo seems to hold a protective side, especially when it comes to (since he thought Chihiro was a girl) girls and stood up for him.

The next day, Mondo accidentally shouted and caused Chihiro to cry. Mondo immediately apologizes and promises not to shout again. In hopes of gaining strength, Chihiro would later ask Mondo to train with him, revealing that he was male and wanting to change from being weak to strong.

Mondo, feeling jealous of Chihiro's inner strength in comparison to his own, killed him in a blind rage, with the use of a dumbbell. Mondo soon regretted his actions and attempted to make it up to Chihiro by keeping his secret for as long as possible by switching the crime scene to the girl's changing room and by breaking Chihiro's e-Handbook in the sauna so his gender wouldn't be revealed. Mondo is later executed willingly by Monokuma after being discovered as the culprit.

Sometime after Mondo and Chihiro's deaths, the remaining survivors found a high school picture of the two laughing with Leon, possibly meaning that the two were friends prior to the Tragedy. In Danganronpa 3, Mondo is shown working with Chihiro to help seal up the school.

In the non-canon Danganronpa V3's Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Chihiro tells Mondo about his real gender rather early on and Mondo appears to take it well. The two train together, with Mondo considering it "a promise between men". For a long time, Mondo was the only one who knew Chihiro's secret, as Chihiro told the other students about it around the time his school years ended.

Leon 
Even though Mondo almost never showed close interaction in the Killing School Life, Mondo may have been good friends with Leon during their school time in Class 78th, as a picture of the three laughing was found shortly after their deaths. However, according to Leon and Mondo's relationship chart in the Danganronpa 1.2 Reload Artbook, this is contrasted with Mondo believing him to be a moron and Leon believing his style doesn't make him look popular.

Makoto 
Byakuya provoked Mondo to become enraged, Makoto tried to stop Mondo from doing something rash and ended up being punched by Mondo when trying to intervene. Mondo later apologized for his short-tempered actions showing he holds no disdain towards Makoto.

When Sayaka was murdered, Mondo assumed Makoto to be the killer due to the murder happening in his dorm room without considering other evidence, showing he did not fully trust Makoto at this point.

Mondo and Kiyotaka have an argument about who has the greater strength and challenge each other to an endurance contest in the sauna. Mondo requests Makoto to be their witness in order to have a fair contest showing that he now may trust Makoto more after the events of the first class trial in which his innocence was proved.

During Mondo's Free Time events, he requested Makoto come riding with his gang after they escape Hope's Peak Academy. Makoto is unsure if it would be safe and Mondo stated Makoto could ride with him on his motorcycle, showing that he trusts Makoto and sees him as a close friend. Mondo also talks to Makoto exclusively about his indecisiveness over his career path, something that he stated he would share with no one else which presents the development of their friendship.

Makoto is able to discover Mondo to be the culprit of Chihiro's murder and upon hearing Mondo's reasons for killing Chihiro, Makoto started to feel guilty and was deeply upset when Mondo is sentenced to be executed.

Byakuya 
Byakuya enjoys teasing Mondo while Mondo finds him irritating and annoying. In Chapter 1, Mondo threatens to beat Byakuya up, however, was stopped by Makoto who tries to calm Mondo down which resulted in a punch by Mondo. Mondo continues to get teased by Byakuya, who often times insults his appearance and mentality. Byakuya mocks Mondo and makes fun of him for standing up for a weak person like Chihiro.

In Chapter 2, Byakuya witnessed Mondo killing Chihiro when Byakuya went outside and states how stupid Mondo could be.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Mondo Owada & School Mode/Mondo Owada
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Mondo in order to learn more about him. If he gives him a present that he likes and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Mondo will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Mondo's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles or an increase in Skill Points.

12345Dead
Mondo Owada Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
When it's got no muffler	When it's piping hot	Like...a pipe for smoking?
Hand-to-hand	Bare knuckleball	One-punch knuckle
Bear person	Cat person	Dog person
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 9 Sonic Cup a Noodle  DR1 Present 27 Roller Slippers DR1 Present 32 Fresh Bindings DR1 Present 41 Quality Chinchilla Cover


Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him in Class Trials. Becoming close to Mondo grants the following skills:

Downshift	Reduces your aim speed. Effective during the Nonstop Debate and the Hangman's Gambit.	1 SP
Upshift	Increases your aim speed. Effective during the Nonstop Debate and the Hangman's Gambit.	1 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Mondo OwadaMakoto is able to see inside Mondo's dorm room during Free Time events. His dorm room is filled with large flags, all featuring the name of his biker gang, The Crazy Diamonds which reflects his loyalty and remembrance of the group. Bike magazines are in his bed. He has a Rising Sun flag on his table. Hair care products are on top of his shelves. He has knuckle dusters and a cypress stick weapon.

DR1ExtraNovel
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"Name's Mondo Owada. Nice to fuckin' meetcha."
"Well hell, it ain't like I'm scared or nothin'. Let's just get this over with!"
"Gotcha, you little piece of shit! I dunno if you're a toy or a stuffed animal or whatever the hell! Either way, I'm gonna rip you to fuckin' shreds!"
Chapter 1:

"Jesus. If you have time to yell about it, you have time to DO something about it."
"This is bullshit! What the hell kinda rules are these!? I'm not gonna let them control ME!"
"I... Ever since I was a kid, I grew up with my older brother pounding this into my head... When a man makes a promise, he has to keep it, even if it kills him. I've made a ton of promises that I still have to keep, that's "so what"! So I can't afford to die here!"
"She's right. We can't be makin' stupid jokes right now. We gotta do something, or—!"
"But I suck at thinkin' stuff up, so I guess I'll let you guys figure it out. Once it's time to act, though, you just lemme know. I'll show you what a real man can do!"
"Yeah, sounds like the girl wants to live here. And hell, more power to her. But shit... No way in hell am I living here! I'm gettin' outta here, I don't give a shit!"
"Yeah, sure thing. Then we're countin' on the both of ya! If anything happens, just yell and I'll come runnin'!"
"...Lemme just say this right now! If whatever son of a bitch did this is here right now, and they're thinking of destroying that evidence... They'd better not let me find 'em! I'll skip the trial and cave their goddamn skull in myself! I'm serious! I will fuck them up!"
"Anyone who raises their hand to a woman is scum that deserves death. That's what my brother taught me. So if I ever find the son of a bitch that did this, I'm gonna pound his goddamn face in."
"Stop jumpin' ahead! Slow down and explain it so I get what the hell's goin' on!" (to Makoto)
"Whoa! You might've finally just said something worth a shit!"
"You piece of shit! I don't know who you are but I'm gonna pound your ass into the ground!"
Chapter 2:

"Well we don't know till we look!"
"Don't make that face! You look like a pussy! You want me to put some fighting spirit in ya? Well, do ya!?"
"Who gives a shit if we have a goddamn pool now!? Or a warehouse, or whatever the fuck! We're still trapped in this piece of shit school! We need to find a goddamn way OUT!"
"After spending all night ridin' your hog, wind in your face, there's nothin' better than a morning dip! The hot water loosens ya up, and the heat of your soul gets your heart and body pumpin'!"
"Guys gotta expose themselves to each other, ya know? Come with me next time, you'll see!"
"Hey, shithead! You get off on bullying people that can't fight back? You wanna try that on me!?"
"I wasn't tryin' to be mean! Besides, girls are just naturally weak anyway right!?" (About Chihiro)
"Hey, c'mon, don't cry... I-It's my fault, okay? I won't yell at you anymore..."
"...I got it! I'll make you a promise as a man! Ever since I was a kid, there was one thing my brother told me over and over again... He said that no matter what, a real man ALWAYS keeps his promises. That's what he left me. Anyway, I don't wanna talk about it. Don't wanna make all you guys cry! Anyway, so you can trust me when I make that promise. So you don't gotta cry anymore!"
"Hell, let's make things interesting. Wouldn't wanna win without a challenge, right?"
"And you can shut the fuck up and mind your own business. I mean, look at you. Your face is all red. What're you, one of those goddamn hot spring monkeys?"
"You don't have to act all big, man. A-Act, you say? Hahaha! I'm still plenty good to go! I'm so good, I could eat a steaming-hot bowl of soup right now!"
"Listen to you...you son of a bitch...! Then bring it on...! I'll...I'll push you right up to the gates of hell!"
"I'll let you know how it went...in the morning! Then you can start spreading my...my legend...!"
"I don't like it, but nothing good's gonna come from ignoring that goddamn bear."
"But ya know... There at the edge of hell...a promise between men was waiting for me. Never saw it comin'..." (About his "manly" bond with Kiyotaka)
"A dead body is an...object? Chihiro wasn't an "object"! Show a little respect, or I'll beat some into ya!"
"Dude had a real complex about being weak. You heard Chihiro talk about it, right? All "I need to get stronger!" Sure did. Which...I guess explains the trip down here."
"I didn't kill anyone! You've been all over me, judging everything I say, putting words in my mouth... What gives you the right to treat me like a goddamn criminal!?"
"I gotta get stronger...stronger than Daiya. Once...just one time... No matter what, I gotta win... I don't care what it takes, I gotta come out on top!"
"I'm...strong... Strong, strong, strong, strong, strong, strong...!"
"I was...jealous. I was jealous of Chihiro's strength. He had the strength to face his own weakness, to try and overcome it...! It was the kind of strength I've never had... So I was jealous of him. And that jealousy...broke me."
"I'm strong? Are you fucking with me right now?"
"That's right... I *am* strong... Strong... I'm strong...! Strong, strong, strong, strong, strong, strong! Stronger than you! And stronger than Daaaaiiiyaaaaa!!!"
"Even after all this time, I'm still just as weak as I've always been! And thanks to that, I did something I can never take back...!"
"Sorry, man... I couldn't keep the promise we made...from one man to another..."
List of 
GamesAnimeLight NovelsMangaStage Plays
DISTRUST (Scrapped)
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa: Monokuma no Gyakushū
Danganronpa: Unlimited Battle

The name of Mondo's gang is most likely a reference to Josuke Higashikata's Stand 'Crazy Diamond' (written and pronounced in Japanese as 「クレイジー・ダイヤモンド」Kureijī Daiyamondo) from JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Diamond is Unbreakable, which is, in turn, a reference to Pink Floyd's nine-part composition Shine on You Crazy Diamond.
Mondo's hairstyle and clothing are likely to be references to Josuke Higashikata as well.
Incidentally, there is also a Daiya Higashikata. This character, however, is female and a distant relative of the Josuke Higashikata from JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: JoJolion.
In the shack in the Garden located on the 5th floor, there is a pickaxe with the name of Mondo's biker gang on it, the "Crazy Diamonds", likely as a joke.
Mondo, along with Daiya, make an appearance in another Spike Chunsoft game, Kenka Banchou Bros: Tokyo Battle Royale.
Mondo's stage actor for Danganronpa: Kibō no Gakuen to Zetsubō no Kōkōsei THE STAGE 2016, Mitsu Murata, is married to Sayaka Kanda, the stage actress of Junko Enoshima and Mukuro Ikusaba, and the Japanese voice actress of Kaede Akamatsu.

Mukuro is a young woman who is around 19 years old. (around 17 years in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc).

She and Junko share the same, average height. Her slim figure has been criticized by Monokuma in Danganronpa IF; he has specifically stated that she was "too skinny" (though it should be noted Junko tends to heavily exaggerate or even make up Mukuro's flaws). Despite being a soldier, her body does not appear particularly muscular, which could be explained by the fact that some parts of her talent have been shown to be more like a supernatural state. She is similar in appearance to her sister Junko, but there are some notable differences. Mukuro's eyes are less round, more slanted, and are also naturally blue; unlike her sister's. Her bust is also much smaller. She has short, layered, bobbed black hair and freckles across the bridge of her nose. She has a Fenrir tattoo on her right hand, which she covers up with foundation when disguised as Junko.

However, in later designs of her after Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc, Mukuro's eye color is changed to purple and her hair is a little longer, reaching down to about shoulder length.


Being the Ultimate Soldier, Mukuro is ruthless and can kill and harm others with no remorse. She seems completely indifferent towards other people, unless it's her sister Junko or her crush Makoto. Unlike her sister, she doesn't take any sadistic pleasure in hurting or killing people, but at the same time she shows little concern for other people's suffering.

Despite being an incredible soldier, Mukuro is very out-of-touch with her own emotions. She has a notable lack of social-skills, acting emotionless and indifferent towards most people. She tends to have a cold, serious expression and a reserved personality. Despite this, she appears to portray her sister's very different personality rather well. She herself admits that she lacks skill in negotiating with others and planning tactics in advance, despite her renown as an excellent soldier. While she is completely fearless as a soldier, she is afraid of certain emotional situations.

Mukuro has been verbally and physically abused by her sister for years. She only knows how to take orders from Junko and obeys her even if she doesn't agree with her. Mukuro craves her sister's praise and acceptance and will do nearly anything to get it. Because of this, Mukuro allows herself to be constantly abused by Junko and takes her insults to heart. Mukuro believes she is the only one who truly understands her sister and she wants to make her happy, so she stays by Junko's side even when she insults her. She also finds pleasure in Junko's attempts to harm or even kill her, knowing that her sister will experience tremendous despair if she succeeds. She is sometimes portrayed even disturbingly obsessed with her sister, with her blushing and in a state of ecstasy.

According to her voice actress, Mukuro usually gives off a feminine, frail and even cute impression when in her sister's company, described with "a masochist who loves her little sister" kind of vibe. However, during fighting, her stern and grim personality comes out, and it's like she becomes a different person.

In Danganronpa IF, thanks to Makoto, Mukuro begins to have more interest in the world around her. While she is protective of Makoto and cares about him, she still doesn't show that much interest in other students. She decides to protect Makoto's hope and betrays Junko, though she is still very much motivated by the idea of causing her sister to feel despair. In the end, she doesn't know how to feel or what kind of future she would have.


Ultimate 
Danganronpa The Animation Mukuro Ikusaba Talent Card Japanese Mukuro showed a huge interest in the military since childhood. In elementary school, she won a survival game tournament and began writing for military magazines.
She has received military training from a very young age and is highly proficient in both a variety of firearms and hand-to-hand combat. When pushed to the limit she can enter a kind of battle trance, where her speed and reflexes increase to high-superhuman levels.

When she was young she joined the elite mercenary group Fenrir and has never received a single injury on the battlefield.

She managed to hold her own against Peko Pekoyama the Ultimate Swordswoman, the Madarai brothers and Sakura Ogami the Ultimate Martial Artist in Danganronpa IF, while she was able to defeat the first two, she was unable to defeat the latter in hand-to-hand combat.

Despite being the Ultimate Soldier, Mukuro has terrible negotiation skills, which she admits.

In other 
Mukuro's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

Ultimate Soldier
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「軍人」	Super High School Level Soldier
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"軍人"	Super High School Level Soldier
中文超高校级的"军人"	Super High School Level Soldier(DRtA)
DeutschSuper Soldatin	Super Soldier (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Soldato Liceale	Super High School Level Soldier(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Soldado	Super High School Student Level: Soldier (DRtA)

Prior to the 
Mukuro and Junko used to be homeless and lived in a very harsh environment as children. It's heavily implied that she was manipulated and verbally abused by Junko.

Mukuro showed a huge interest in the military since childhood. In elementary school, she won a survival game tournament and began writing for military magazines.

Just before entering middle school, Mukuro disappeared while she and her family were on vacation in Europe. People thought she had been kidnapped, but she was never found. In truth, she had decided to join an elite mercenary group based out of the Middle East known as Fenrir, a fierce group of soldiers who engaged in direct combat. Although small for her age, she received military training and became highly proficient in both a variety of firearms and hand-to-hand combat. As a member of Fenrir, she passed through many battlefields but was never wounded.

Three years later, Mukuro returned to Japan to be with her sister. Junko had a strong desire to "paint the world in despair" and planned to start the Tragedy, the worst, most despair-inducing incident in the history of mankind. She called herself and her sister the Despair Sisters AKA the Ultimate Despair.

Mukuro was enrolled into Hope's Peak Academy's Class 78th as the Ultimate Soldier, while her sister was the Ultimate Fashionista. Mukuro fell in love with Makoto Naegi, due to him being the first person to ever smile at her. She would often watch him from afar, as she lacked the courage to tell him how she felt. It was because of him that she begun to think more of the world outside of Junko's plans, and it caused her to have doubts when Junko revealed her plan for the killing game involving their fellow students, Makoto included.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Despair Arc Episode 5 - Mukuro stopping Junko from stabbing herMukuro met Junko at the airport. She found Junko, sitting on a pile of luggage, writing in her notebook and narrating out loud. They rode together in a limousine and Junko asked Mukuro if she had more freckles. Before receiving a response, Junko tried to attack Mukuro with an ice pick, but she effortlessly blocked Junko's attempts, all while answering Junko's question about her freckles. Junko then threw a grenade and Mukuro used her foot to flip it into her champagne glass, and threw it out of the limousine window, causing it to explode on another car. Mukuro happily thought and found desirable the despair of Junko trying to kill her own sister. Junko told Mukuro she had a bad odor, but Mukuro stated having had bathed however she was still embarrassed by Junko's remarks. Mukuro asked Junko why she wanted to meet with the other members of the class, and Junko stated they were scouted and had been selected to attend Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Fashionista and Ultimate Soldier.
The two arrived at Hope's Peak Academy, just behind Makoto. Junko continued narrating, and Mukuro asked if narrating was her new obsession. Junko stated it was but she was already bored of it.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
Despair Arc Episode 6 - Mukuro finished killing the guardsAt night, Mukuro and Junko sneak into a secure area of Hope's Peak. Mukuro uses her skills with weaponry to slaughter the security guards while Junko eats curry. Junko orders Mukuro to clean up the mess by herself. Mukuro guides Junko down the hall until they reach the door where Izuru Kamukura is. Mukuro notices it is secured by a retina scanner. Junko takes the eyeball she took from one of the trustees, and holds it up to the retina scanner, giving them access.
Junko is happy to see Izuru, but Mukuro worries he could be dangerous. Junko calls Mukuro names, distracting her as she despairingly realizes Junko included all of the nasty ones. Junko tried to attack Izuru with a knife, but he knocked her to the ground and stepped on her. Mukuro tried to help, but Izuru backhanded her into a wall. After Junko explained the allure of despair to those with super intelligence, Izuru knocked her out, but told Mukuro to tell Junko that he will be waiting for her. Mukuro gets Junko to the infirmary after saying she hit her head. Junko is excited when Mukuro relays Izuru's message to her. As she and Mukuro rush out of the hospital, Junko bumps into Ryota Mitarai.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
While Junko explains her plan to Ryota, Mukuro is seen handing her a remote.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by Chance 
Despair Arc Episode 8 - Mukuro's deadly stareMukuro spotted Peko stalking her, who explained that a certain man asked her to keep an eye on Mukuro. Commenting on how close Peko's class is, Mukuro angrily stated that she hates being followed and attacked Peko with a combat knife, who retaliated with her bamboo sword. As the fight escalated, Mukuro brought out a second knife, which she used to cut Peko's shinai apart - however, this only revealed the metal blade at its core. Both women then speculated that each other already had experience in killing, to which they both agree.
Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Despair Arc Episode 9 - Mukuro directly tampering with Chisa's brainMukuro defeats Peko off-screen and returns to Junko's lair just in time to hold Chisa Yukizome captive and force her to watch the Reserve Course student committing suicide. Later, after strapping Chisa down and crock for her to watch the first killing game, Mukuro is left in charge while Junko goes off to fulfill other parts of her plan. As Chisa seems to be resisting the brainwashing from the video, Mukuro gives Chisa a lobotomy, and lowers her resistance to the effects of the brainwashing video, ultimately turning Chisa into an Ultimate Despair.
Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy 
Despair Arc Episode 11 - Mukuro proud of Junko and her despairMukuro, Junko, and Izuru stand atop a tall building, near to the school, with a view of Class 77-B. Junko stared at the class through her binoculars before proclaiming that they will infect the world with despair. Mukuro, not understanding what Junko meant by infect, is promptly silenced, Junko scolding her for not knowing her plan immediately slaps her, causing Mukuro to fall to the ground. Junko then used her stiletto, prodding Mukuro with it while she explained 'ominous' and 'fun' atmosphere causes the world of hope to fall into despair.
Once the Reserve Student's had finished their march on Hope's Peak, leaving it in ruin, Junko thanked them over her mobile phone, prompting them to commit suicide after adhering to her wishes. Mukuro inquired as to why she didn't keep them around to help but is immediately rebuffed by Junko who explained that they may think like her but are nowhere near the same level so have become useless to her, Mukuro staring at her in admiration, agrees to this. Junko also pointed out that Mukuro may not be safe either if she lets her guard down, Mukuro happily accepted this.

Despair Arc Episode 11 - Junko keeping Makoto aliveJunko and Mukuro then meet with the Class 78th, helping them to shelter the school and protect them from danger. When Junko explained that Makoto is the only person who she could not predict, Mukuro inquired whether they should kill him but Junko believed it would be more despairful if he was able to beat her in the end.
Danganronpa 
Mukuro spent a good amount of time masquerading as Junko, while the real Junko's memories were missing due to her testing Yasuke Matsuda's memory-erasing technology as a preparation for the Mutual Killing of Class 78th.

Mukuro also saved Makoto from Misshiki Madarai and murdered two of the Steering Committee members. She also easily beats up and kills all of the Madarai brothers.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy 
Prologue - Welcome to 
Danganronpa 1 CG - Students at the School EntranceMukuro melded into the memory-wiped students of Class 78th as Junko, but had to immediately fend off remarks from Makoto that she did not look like the supermodel he had known.
Chapter 1 - To 
Shortly after the first murder, Mukuro was supposed to follow a plan she had agreed on with her sister; Monokuma would trap her in the dungeon in order to "set an example" for the students not to directly rebel against him. However, on a whim, Junko decided to kill her sister for real and Mukuro was brutally impaled by Monokuma with numerous spears, dubbed "Spears of Gungnir".

Danganronpa 1 CG - Mukuro Ikusaba (Junko Disguise) impaledMukuro, having memorized the scenario and had expected to set up a different outcome, was completely caught off guard, never expecting that her sister would kill her. This incident misled the other students into thinking that "Junko" was killed. The reason Junko killed Mukuro was to bring her and her sister despair, since beyond all appearances she truly did love Mukuro.
Chapter 5 - 100 Mile Dash; Pain of a Junk Food 
Danganronpa 1 CG - Mukuro Ikusaba's corpse being used as a trapLater, Mukuro's dead body was planted in the Greenhouse on the fifth floor of the school by Junko - at the time still known only as "the mastermind" - to lead the other students into thinking that the unknown sixteenth student, whom they were told was "Mukuro Ikusaba", had died as a result of murder. However, before they could take at closer look at the body, it exploded due to a Monokuma bomb, leaving little else other than the Fenrir mark on her hand and her numerous injury marks.
However, the contradiction of the admission reports for Mukuro (which stated that she did not carry any scars of injuries), the fact that she was explicitly named Mukuro Ikusaba, and the wealth of information that her dead body carried, finally led the students to figure out that they had, in fact, met Mukuro in disguise, not Junko.

Danganronpa 
Mukuro played a more prominent role in this novel. In the novel, she maintained her guise as her younger sister until the scene when she would have normally been killed by the Spears of Gungnir. Makoto, who had been electrically shocked into recovering his memories the night before, recognized Mukuro through her disguise and called out her real name at the last possible moment, giving her enough of a warning to jump out of the way of the spears and survive. However, in the process of trying to save her, Makoto is hit by one of the spears and becomes gravely injured, falling into unconsciousness.

While Mukuro was distracted by the fact that Makoto saved her life while endangering his own and that her own sister tried to kill her, Monokuma attempted to attack her, but Sakura Ogami intervened. Sayaka Maizono attempted to aid Makoto, but Junko quickly changed her plans; she pretended to have the Monokuma unit be 'taken over' by "Besshiki Madarai, Ultimate Hacker" and revealed Mukuro's true identity, alleging that she and Makoto were the true culprits behind the students' strange circumstance.

After being questioned by her fellow students to see if what the "hacker" said was true, Mukuro took off her wig and revealed that she was partly responsible for the situation the students found themselves in. However, she tried to convince them that Makoto was innocent in this, but was unsuccessful. Mukuro, realizing that she would not be able to convince them to trust her, decided to fight her way out, fighting Sakura to a draw.

Realizing that she would not be able to beat the Ultimate Martial Artist and that Makoto was running out of time, Mukuro forcibly triggered Genocide Jack's appearance, using the ensuing chaos of Toko Fukawa's drastic personality change to her advantage.

Mukuro managed to escape from the gymnasium with Makoto, dashing to the infirmary to treat his wounds. Here, she met and was antagonized by Junko in another Monokuma unit, who promptly called her useless and a disappointment.

After a long argument between the two (which was mainly one-sided as Mukuro was constantly put down and insulted, and where it was revealed that Mukuro had romantic feelings for Makoto), Junko appeared on a TV screen and, in an unnaturally kind tone, told Mukuro that she loves her.

While normally touching, Mukuro was all too aware that that was Junko's way of severing their ties to each other. Although Junko's words momentarily threatened to bring Mukuro to despair, she then resolved to make everyone happy and disrupt Junko's plans, thereby bringing Junko to despair. She then destroyed the Monokuma unit with her as well as the camera in the infirmary.

Soon, Kyoko Kirigiri and several others arrived at the infirmary to search for Makoto and Mukuro, most of whom were convinced of Makoto and Mukuro's supposed treachery. While most of the other students failed to notice anything, Kyoko was sharp enough to detect Mukuro's presence. Yet, true to her well-honed instincts, Kyoko decided to not raise an alarm, sending most of the remaining party off while she and Chihiro Fujisaki stay behind.

Kyoko called out to Mukuro, revealing that she knew where exactly Mukuro and Makoto were hidden. After convincing Mukuro to trust her, Kyoko had Chihiro record Mukuro's testimony, allowing her to explain to Kyoko the truth of the students' current circumstances. Mukuro then resolves to show Junko true despair and leaves the infirmary. 

Shortly after that, Mukuro confronts Monokuma and demands that Junko open the gates so they can all leave together - leading into a spectacular battle against hundreds of Monokuma units.

Despite the grave threat, Mukuro was focused and able to fend off the attacks until Junko used Makoto's voice file - to be precise, at the moment when Makoto screamed for her to get out of the way - to throw her off and defeat her. She was however quickly rescued by Mondo in his motorbike, and was then taken to the cafeteria.

After the entire group learned of the truth of their situation from Mukuro's recording and a now awake Makoto, Monokuma decided to "give them one final chance at freedom". The students of Class 78th took on Monokuma's challenge, only to discover that they had to succeed in running past an entire corridor full of exploding Monokuma units and reach the escape switch in under 15 seconds.

While the situation seemed impossible, with help from Sakura, Mukuro was able to dash past the exploding Monokuma units, and succeeded in retrieving the escape switch from the final Monokuma unit before it exploded.

Afterwards, Mukuro donned her Junko disguise again, ready to face persecution from all sides for causing the grave worldwide incident. Mirroring the events of the first game, Makoto was given the escape switch, which he pressed to open the doors, thus ending the story in the exact same fashion as in the game, leaving Mukuro's fate past that point unknown. 

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Mukuro appears as a cameo in the OVA, shown spying on Makoto and Sayaka behind a tree.

Danganronpa Gaiden: Killer 
Chapter 8 - Beginning of the Killer 
Mukuro shows up in Chapter 8, having been responsible for the mass murder in Takumi Hijirihara's middle school. Shūji Fujigawa hid Takumi in a closet so that he would be safe, since he had an intense fear of blood, similarly to Toko Fukawa. After seeing the incident through the slits of the locker, Takumi became "Killer Killer." At the end of the chapter, it is revealed by Ikue Dogami that Mukuro has "broken out", implying that she may actually be alive.

Chapter 9 - Don't 
After receiving an order to do so, Takumi, Misaki Asano, and Shūji arrived at the seemingly abandoned 8th Division Headquarters. Takumi steps inside to find Mukuro and has a scuffle with her. This ends in him choking Mukuro, and nearly stabbing her until he is stopped by Shūji clenching his knife. It is then revealed the actual Mukuro is dead and the person who Takumi faced is a fake, and later several clones of the Ultimate Soldier presented in the room. Takumi killed them all and scored their murders at zero points, saying they lack the passion for the murder that the actual Mukuro had.

Chapter 10 - Killer Killer 
Mukuro appears alongside Junko after the events of the Giboura Massacre. Junko praises Mukuro for her murderous abilities, to which Mukuro blushes in delight. Junko then bears her famous, wide-toothed grin, saying she has a much more fun job for Mukuro in store.


Main article: Spears of Gungnir


Family:
Junko 
Junko was Mukuro's younger twin sister. Mukuro viewed Junko as being far superior to her and would do anything to earn her praise, even going so far as to join Ultimate Despair and taking part in the School Life of Mutual Killing.

Mukuro wanted nothing more than for Junko to be happy and to be loved by her, but was aware that she did not subscribe to the same notions of despair compared to her sister. She refused to leave her side though, as she believes no one else besides her can truly understand her sister.

Junko was verbally abusive and cruel towards Mukuro. She made it very clear that she believed herself to be superior to her older sister and criticized her on several occasions. Mukuro took her sister's insults to heart and believed Junko was always right. Mukuro's feelings allowed Junko to take advantage of her, but there were certain limits, such as when Junko attempted to kill Mukuro with an ice pick and a grenade but Mukuro blocked all her attacks and chucked it out the car window. Still, Mukuro understood that Junko was trying to taste the despair of killing her own sister, and was actually happy to know Junko would fall into despair by murdering her.

When Mukuro talks or thinks about her sister in Danganronpa Zero and Danganronpa 3, she sometimes blushes and appears to be in a state of ecstasy, implying that she has incestuous feelings for her sister. In Danganronpa Zero, she turns ecstatic and feverish as she explains Junko's relationship with her and despair, considering her own relationship with Junko special because she truly is the only one who understands her. She claims that is why Junko needs her, though she hasn't realized it yet. Acting giddy, Mukuro thinks that maybe Junko just pretends not to realize it because she is "so shy". Hearing all of this, Ryōko is disturbed and concludes that Mukuro's feelings for her sister are definitely not normal.

In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Mukuro dresses up as Junko and attends her classes so that she's free to do as she wants.

Love interest:
Makoto 
While there were no real interactions between the two in the first game, their relationship is explored and elaborated on in the novel Danganronpa IF.

It is revealed that they were friends due to being classmates, though seemingly not very close due to Mukuro's distant personality. Mukuro was in love with Makoto due to him being the first person to ever smile at her, though he appeared to be unaware of this and thought of her as a friend. She would often watch him from afar while they still attended Hope's Peak before The Tragedy occurred, as she lacked the courage to tell him how she felt. Another hint at her crush is provided in the first game, as during the last class trial when some group pictures of Class 78th are shown, Mukuro is looking away from the camera (some appear to be deliberate). However, the only one where she is actually looking directly at the camera is the one taken by Makoto. In Danganronpa IF, Junko says that Mukuro never cared about being in the photos, but did care about the one Makoto was taking.

It was because of Makoto that Mukuro began to think more of the world outside of Junko's plans, and it caused her to have doubts when Junko revealed her plan for the killing game involving their fellow students, Makoto included. However, initially, she was perfectly willing to kill him if for Junko's sake, despite the way she felt about him. As shown in Danganronpa 3, Mukuro hesitantly suggested that she and Junko kill Makoto immediately after her sister deemed him a threat.

In Danganronpa IFs alternative universe, this changed drastically after Makoto became heavily lacerated for saving Mukuro where she became desperate in saving a moribund Makoto. As Junko then gives Mukuro the injunction to kill Makoto, Mukuro responded in refusal. Makoto treated Mukuro very kindly and placed his trust in her, even after it was revealed she was partly responsible for what had happened to Hope's Peak Academy.

Class 78th:
Kyoko 
In Danganronpa V3 bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, she and Kyoko are partners in the track race. Mukuro stated while Kyoko isn't very athletic, she wasn't bad either. Kyoko notes of Mukuro's athletic physique and Mukuro stated that her good eye was befitting the Ultimate Detective.

Future Foundation Members:
Takumi 
Mukuro is the one responsible for the mass murder in Takumi's middle school. Despite their opposing statuses due to their respective affiliations, Takumi developed an admiration for her techniques in the murder which later drove him to become the elusive Killer Killer.

Free 

Obtained from the MonoMono Machine.

Rations (#11)
Kitty Hairpin (#16)
Rose In Vitro (#46)
Golden Space Shuttle (#61)

During free time conversations, the player will occasionally be given a choice on how to respond to something that is said. These are the 'right' choices.

Hang out

These will aid you, usually during Class Trials.

Trance - Even low combos will increase the tempo. Effective during the Bullet Time Battle. Costs 4 SP.
Charisma - Increases Influence Gauge recovery when right answers are chosen. Effective during the class Trial. Costs 5 SP.

DR1ExtraDRIFDR3
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"Hiii! I'm Junko Enoshima. Charmed, I'm sure!"
"It's totally normal these days to photoshop the crap out of cover photos If you're surpised by that, you'd be totaly blown away by a certain dangerous little diva of ours... They make the eyes and junk super big, and tweak the skin so it looks all ceramic and porcelain."
Chapter 1:

"If you wanted to go with someone, you should've just said something!"
"Hey! Stop screwing around, all of you! Are you still asleep or something? We're prisoners here! We could all just die any second!"
"It's like the little goth lolita said. Without something like that, we're just gonna self-destruct."
"Well, whatever. What you're into is your business. I don't judge!"
"Have you gone completely insane? Adapt to my new life here? Do you have any idea what you're saying?"
"Okay, then. Maybe we should start by all just...talking. Maybe if we all just talk about what we saw, that'l help get everything out of our system. Besides, I think we're all super curious, right?"
"Shut the hell up! Say whatever you want, I'm not gonna be part of this!"
"You're the one being selfish! Kill whoever you want, it's got nothing to do with me!"
"H-Huh? This wasn't...supposed to... Why...me...?"

"Mukuro" (as 躯) means "corpse" while the kanji for "Ikusaba" (戦刃) mean "war blade".
She was killed by what Monokuma called the Spears of Gungnir. In Norse mythology, the Spear of Gungnir was the weapon Odin used to slay the monstrous wolf Fenrir, whose name is also the name of the mercenary group Mukuro was affiliated with.
There is a considerable amount of foreshadowing that Mukuro was a soldier, while disguised as Junko. One of her favorite free time gifts is field rations and she described her early life as "living in a warzone".
Her profile in Danganronpa IF states that since childhood, she always had a special interest in mystery stories, and is completely engrossed by them.
Mukuro is one of the characters who has shown romantic feelings towards one of her family members, the others being Kanon Nakajima and Korekiyo Shinguji.
Mukuro's death in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc is similar to Chiaki Nanami's death in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc. being suddenly impaled by spears. Both deaths also double as acts of betrayal from those who were closest to them (Junko, in Mukuro's case, and Chisa, in Chiaki's case).
Apparently, Mukuro knows how to sing, as Junko made her sing Tsubasa o Kudasai during The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy.
In the demo version of Danganronpa, Mukuro's death at the hands of Monokuma does not occur, and so she is also present in the class trial.
Mukuro and her twin sister Junko are both voiced by Megumi Toyoguchi in the Japanese version and Amanda Céline Miller (who also voices Toko, Shirokuma and Seiko Kimura) in the English version.

The Ogami family had maintained their dojo for over three centuries. They lived close to nature and had an old-fashioned life style. Sakura was the only daughter born into her clan in her generation, and so was compelled to become even stronger than her male family members in order to prove her worth. As a child, Sakura trained at her family's dojo every day with her father. She fought champions of many disciplines until slowly overtime she was able to defeat everyone she fought. She was strong despite her slim and fair build. She surpassed her own father at the age of 14 after beating him in a grappling match, never losing to him again after that day. Her goal was to become the Strongest Human Alive.

Kenshiro IllustrationSakura's first love and lifelong rival was a man named Kenshiro, a street fighter that she could not defeat, and the then-current Strongest Human Alive. While Sakura considered such feelings extremely embarrassing for a fighter like her and didn't want anyone to know about them, Kenshiro supported her by stating that she doesn't have to be "manly" nor a man to become the strongest person in the world. However, Kenshiro then developed a terminal illness with a prognosis of only six months to live. Sakura visited him soon after his diagnosis, and his condition had deteriorated quickly, becoming emaciated. Kenshiro gave Sakura his title of Strongest Human Alive, but she vowed she would earn the title herself by fighting him again after he had defeated his disease. This inspired her to begin building up her physical strength even further. Furthermore, he gave Sakura a red scarf as a proof of their vows and promised her something else as well, indicating that he may have returned her feelings.
Sakura attended Shiranui High School (alongside upperclassman Peko Pekoyama) and was later scouted by Hope's Peak Academy as part of Class 78th. Sakura never had friends before, as people found her appearance frightening and she was too dedicated for her training to have free time. She also had a poor understanding of modern popular culture due to her upbringing. In the Internet, people called her mean names such as "Ogre" and "missing link", and there were rumors that she is an extremely violent person who must be avoided at all costs. However, she became very close friends with her classmates in Hope's Peak Academy, and she even told them her big secret of being in love with Kenshiro.

The 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc #11
Hifumi and Sakura seal the windows CropDuring the Tragedy, Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. The class agreed to his plan, and they sealed the building together. Sakura used her bare hands to turn the screws on the metal plates which barred the windows. The students lived peacefully inside the school building for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.
Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc

Danganronpa 1 CG - Students at the School EntranceSakura was among those who were chosen to attend  Hope's Peak Academy as part of Class 78th. Class 78th ended up being trapped inside the school, not knowing at the time that they had already been memory-wiped of their two years of school life together. Sakura is around 19 years old, though she believed she was only 17 because of the memory loss.
When Makoto introduces himself, he immediately becomes fearful of Sakura, due to her online reputation on the message boards he had read before becoming a student. Sakura comments that she cannot spar with Makoto due to his lack of muscles.

The students soon became forced into the mutual killing incident. As an incentive to murder in order to escape, the students were each given a DVD featuring a video from Monokuma which implied that their loved ones were in danger. Sakura was blackmailed by Monokuma into becoming its mole, in exchange for the safety of her family and Kenshiro. She was instructed to bring about a killing incident should things begin to stabilize among the survivors, although her role was very limited as mutual killing continued without her intervention.

She sometimes shared a dorm room with Aoi Asahina, who was afraid of being alone at night after the Mutual Killing Incident began, and appeared to spend the majority of her free time with her.She also voluntarily guarded the bodies alongside another student whenever a crime scene was discovered, in order to prevent tampering with the evidence.

Sakura's 
Danganronpa 1 CG - Sakura fighting Monokuma (08)Sometime after Celestia Ludenberg was executed, Sakura decided that she had had enough of deceiving her friends and made up her mind to stop Monokuma's twisted games. She confronted Monokuma, witnessed by Makoto who had just woken up from being knocked out, announcing that she would act against him and support her friends from then on.
Before Sakura could properly confess, however, Monokuma beat her to the punch by revealing her status as his mole, which immediately led to several incidents between the aloof Byakuya, the love-struck Toko Fukawa, and the defensive Aoi who had desperately attempted to protect Sakura from further slander. After Aoi was injured by Genocide Jack prompted Sakura to finally end things once and for all. Sakura decided that the most unobtrusive way to go about fulfilling Monokuma's mutual killing instructions was to commit suicide. Sakura wrote a calligraphic farewell letter.

Sakura broke down the door leading to the principal's office, which would later turn out to be key in allowing Kyoko Kirigiri to steal Monokuma's treasure (a key which can unlock every room in the academy) and would allow her to obtain some crucial information regarding  Mukuro Ikusaba, the sixteenth student.

Sakura's 
Danganronpa 1 CG - Sakura being attacked by YasuhiroBefore her final moments, Sakura had attempted to make peace with Yasuhiro Hagakure, Byakuya, and Toko - who had turned on her after her being revealed as the mole. Toko and Yasuhiro both came to the Recreation Room to meet her, but Byakuya never showed up in order to play it safe. Sakura was struck twice in succession by Monokuma Bottles.
Aoi, who was alarmed by Sakura's injury - having previously trying to dissuade Sakura from meeting the trio - was asked by Sakura to make her a bottle of protein shake. After Aoi left, Sakura locked the Recreation Room door and drank a bottle of poison she had retrieved from the Chemistry Lab cabinet, which led her to vomit blood. Sakura died with a smile on her face, confident that her friends would not kill each other anymore.

Danganronpa 1 Chapter 4 Body Discovery
Danganronpa 1 Chapter 4 Body Discovery

Sakura's corpse

Sakura's noble sacrifice, however, was severely complicated when Monokuma switched her suicide note for a fake he had written personally. When Aoi received the fake note, she was lead to believe that Sakura had taken her life out of despair for the hostile situation in the academy. This drove Aoi to attempt to get everybody killed as revenge for pushing Sakura over the edge. The truth was eventually revealed, and Sakura's dying wish was fulfilled - disgusted by Monokuma's deception, the remaining students united against him, vowing to find the secrets of the academy and stop the mastermind.
Post-Killing School 
Main Article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc #11.
Fujisaki, Oowada, Oogami, Kuwata, and MaizonoSakura is seen alongside her deceased classmates in Makoto's hallucination. Sakura is later seen motionless, eyes closed and head covered in blood when all of the deceased morph into how they looked when they died in the Killing School Life.
Creation and 
Sakura Beta TransparentAccording to Kazutaka Kodaka, the writer of the Danganronpa series, Sakura was the most difficult character to design for the first game, due to the team having many design ideas. Kodaka decided wanted Sakura to be an ultra-strong student, but other members of the team wanted her to be a pretty girl or that she should be a man.
The character designer, Rui Komatsuzaki, designed her based on the concept of a warrior high-school girl. She is based on a design he had been drawing since his school days, and he always thought he'd like to use it in a game. Her beta design, seen in the promotional materials for the scrapped DISTRUST, show Sakura's design had black hair tied behind her head, making her look like a Nio statue.

Sakura Ogami Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
Another variant appeared similar to her final design, but with a tattered white gi that gave her the appearance of a traditional martial artist. In the end, Komatsuzaki had two design candidates - the current design, and one based on a black bodybuilder. The current design won unanimously, though Komatsuzaki himself admits that really liked the body-builder design.


Sakura (さくら) is written in the hiragana syllabary, it is impossible to understand its meaning just by reading it. However, it is safe to assume that the name is the hiragana spelling for the kanji 桜 or 櫻, which both mean "cherry" or "cherry blossom" (which is known for being very frail and fleeting, making it an ironic name for Sakura). In Japanese, given names were written in hiragana are most commonly associated with girls, and so hiragana names are assumed to be female, which is in contrast to her muscular build and that she is visually sometimes mistaken for a man.
Ōgami (大神) means "large deity", likely reflecting her muscular build.

Alternate 
Sonia-Nevermind-Pixel-for-Jpn-Template	The section below is based on non-localized content only available in Japanese.
As such, this information is based on fan-contributed translation.

In the Danganronpa Visual Fanbook, there is a description of executions for all of the characters who did not have one. Sakura's execution is called Deciding Match of the Whole Galaxy and described as the following: 

"Ōgami is standing in a wasteland. An army of aliens appears and surround her, manipulating the atmosphere. Even though Ōgami successfully defeats them one after another, the enemies don't stop appearing. Eventually, it becomes too cramped and she dies by the pressure of being buried in their bodies."
Danganronpa 1 CG - Everyone escapes (Another End) (2)The Danganronpa 3 box set included a feature detailing an alternate ending of Danganronpa called Danganronpa Another End which ultimately never made it out of the development phase. In this ending, all of the students escape, at the cost of giving up their talent forever. In Sakura's ending, she resolves to spend the rest of her life on a spiritual fight rather than a physical one. 
Sakura also escapes Hope's Peak alive, with the rest of her classmates, in the novel Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc IF.


1)Sakura is 6'4" and weighs 218lbs. Her build, deep voice and stern appearance often causes Sakura to be mistaken for a man. She has long white hair, reddened-dark skin; very pale blue eyes, and a scar on her face. She often wears her expression with a slight frown. In flashback material, Sakura is shown with a much slimmer figure.
Her school uniform consists of a traditional seifuku style Japanese school uniform comprising of a white shirt a blue sailor collar, a short blue skirt, and a red tie. The sleeves on the uniform are torn off to make room for her muscular upper arms. She wears bandages wrapped around her calves and forearms. Her shoes are grey and resemble Uwabaki, with writing on the toe box, possibly meant to be her name.


Contrary to what her appearance might suggest, Sakura is a quiet, kind and level-headed girl. She rarely loses her nerve and seems able to maintain clarity in any situation. At times she can grow slightly annoyed and upset, like when people assume things like she isn't a good cook due to her looks. During more rare moments, she can lose her temper completely and become extremely intense, particularly when her friends get hurt. She also gets impatient if she cannot properly train for a long period of time. She is known for her love of protein and protein coffee and enjoying exercising early in the morning before a large breakfast.

Due to her more old-fashioned upbringing, Sakura has a habit of talking in an old-fashioned, formal manner. Being raised as the sole heir to a dojo with a three-hundred-year history, she believes that being a martial artist is simply her destiny. Along with learning martial arts, she learned to respect nature and animals, being particularly fond of rabbits as they never seem to get frightened when she holds them.

Along with protecting her legacy as her sworn duty, Sakura wants to prove that a woman can be the Strongest Person Alive. She also believes that she must work harder than men to achieve this goal. As a result of striving to be strong, Sakura is embarrassed about her own softer feelings and being feminine, assuming that other people would laugh at her if they knew. She is especially embarrassed about having romantic feelings for Kenshiro, thinking that it doesn't fit someone like her. However, she appeared to grow out of these insecurities after gaining real friends in high school.

Despite her gentle nature, Sakura has trouble socializing with others due to her intimidating appearance and aloof nature. Spending most of her time training, she didn't have any real friends until she attended Hope's Peak Academy. Because of this, she also has a somewhat poor knowledge of modern popular culture. For example, she knows quite little about popular modern music and doesn't understand the live music culture, or know how to sing and dance. Instead, her father taught her to appreciate traditional enka.She also dislikes action comics, because they tend to have an inaccurate view of martial arts.However, she appears shyly curious about young adult fiction but knows very little about it.

Sakura greatly revered and respected her friendship with the other students of Class 78th, with them being her first real friends whom she trusted deeply. Likely inheriting a spirit of loyalty from her clan, she even committed suicide in order to prevent her friends from turning against each other.


Ultimate Martial 
Danganronpa 1 Sakura Ogami English Game IntroductionAs the Ultimate Martial Artist, Sakura has powerful fighting abilities. She has accumulated a 400-win streak and won a martial arts tournament in America despite her gender. She even defeated her own father at a young age. The only opponent that she has never been able to defeat in a fight is her boyfriend and rival, Kenshiro. Sakura is proficient in many types of martial arts. She has stated her favorite is mixed martial arts (MMA) because it combines every type of martial art.
In Danganronpa If, she was able to overwhelm Mukuro Ikusaba, the Ultimate Soldier in one on one combat. According to Kodaka, Juzo Sakakura would most likely lose to Sakura, despite being a world champion and the Ultimate Boxer.

In other 
Sakura's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.

Ultimate Martial Artist
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「格闘家」	Super High School Level Fighter (literal)
Super High School Level Grappler (FUNimation)
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"格鬥家"	Super High School Level Brawler
中文超高校级的"格斗家"	Super High School Level Brawler(DRtA)
Français La Combattante Ultime	Ultimate Fighter (DRV3)
DeutschSuper-Wrestlerin	Super Wrestler (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Karateka Liceale	Super High School Level Karate Practitioner(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Luchadora Profesional	Super High School Student Level: Professional Wrestler (DRtA)

Family:
Sakura was very close with her family members. They were also captured by the mastermind to be Sakura's captives along with Kenshiro since they are all very precious to her and very close to her. Monokuma blackmailed her by telling her to kill someone in exchange for their lives. In the end, Sakura commits suicide to save her family as well as her schoolmates.

Romances:
Kenshiro 
Kenshiro is Sakura's lifelong rival who she could never defeat. She fell in love with him, though considered it very embarrassing and din't want anyone to know about it, and wished to defeat him to earn his title of the strongest person in the world.

At some point, Kenshiro fell terribly ill and he gave his title for Sakura to keep until he recovered. They promised to have a rematch in the future after he got better and he gave her a red scarf as a proof of their vows.

Sakura was sure Kenshiro could beat his condition. This was proven to be true in Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls, which takes place 2 years after she last saw him and shows that Kenshiro is still alive, but he is still very ill. Being the closest person to Sakura, Kenshiro was also captured by the Ultimate Despair as a Captive. It is unknown however, if he is aware of Sakura's death.

The two haven't been explicitly stated to be lovers, with him only described as Sakura's "first love", but it is heavily implied that he returned her feelings. In Danganronpa IF, it is stated that along with the rematch he had promised Sakura "something more" as well, indicating that the two planned to begin a romantic relationship after he recovered and if Sakura defeated him.

Class 78th:
Aoi Asahina 
Aoi was depicted throughout to be Sakura's closest friend. The two bonded from the very beginning over their love of sports and athletics and are rarely seen without the other. Both are fiercely protective of each other; Aoi was the only one to openly stick up for Sakura when she was accused of being the Mastermind, and in turn, Sakura became enraged when Toko, as Genocide Jack, cut Aoi on the arm. When Sakura's suicide note is found, it is mainly addressed to Aoi.

In School Mode, Sakura appears a little annoyed when Makoto attempts to ask if she and Aoi are a couple. Sakura answers that Aoi is the first real friend she's ever had and considers Makoto's earlier assumption a "Hifumi-like delusion".

In Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Sakura and Aoi agree to go to the Olympics together. With Sakura as master of the land and Aoi as master of the water.

Makoto Naegi 
Sakura put a great deal of trust in Makoto, telling him about her past and her boyfriend Kenshiro. Makoto, in turn, told Sakura to be patient until they escaped and to embrace her femininity. Sakura stated that Makoto reminds her of Kenshiro in some ways.

In the non-canonical School Mode ending, it's shown that Sakura appears to have fallen in love with Makoto. She wishes Makoto would be the witness of her and Kenshiro's rematch, and states that she wants to put an end for her attraction towards Kenshiro.

Enemies:
Monokuma 
Monokuma blackmailed Sakura into serving him or watch her family and lover Kenshiro be killed. Sakura's working relationship with Monokuma was something that she disliked, but she had no choice but to interact with his plan. She soon rejected serving him in order to protect the rest of her classmates. Monokuma then decided to exposed Sakura's role as the traitor to everyone for revenge when she refused to betrayed her friends which she has no choice but dies for the sake of everyone's lives here. During her dying message, she promised to everyone that she will be able to destroy Monokuma's plans and will uncover the mastermind. She blames Monokuma for her death and it was also his fault for everyone being against each other.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Sakura Ogami & School Mode/Sakura Ogami
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Sakura in order to learn more about her. If he gives her a present that she likes and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and she will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Sakura's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu and grants either a skill that will give him an advantage during class trial battles or an increase in Skill Points.

123456Dead
Sakura Ogami Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Aikido	Mixed Martial Arts	Jujutsu
You	Your Grandpa	Your Dad
Your fist	A sword	A hammer
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 23 God of War Charm DR1 Present 32 Fresh Bindings DR1 Present 46 Rose in Vitro DR1 Present 64 Asura's Tears DR1 Present 65 Secrets of the Omoplata

Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him in Class Trials. Becoming close to Sakura grants the following skills:

Breathing Technique	The Focus Gauge recovers more quickly. Effective during the Nonstop Debate, the Hangman's Gambit, and the Bullet Time Battle.	4 SP
Tranquility	Completely steadies your aim. Effective during the Nonstop Debate and the Hangman's gambit.	3 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Sakura OgamiMakoto is able to see inside Sakura's dorm room during Free Time events. Her dorm room is filled with training equipment. She has several large stacks of breaking tiles, and she has drilled wooden training dummies into the floor. A Gi and red belt hang on the clothes rack near the bathroom door.

DR1ExtraNovel
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"I am Sakura Ogami."
"Muscular quality and quantity is right around that of an extremely ordinary high school student... Hmph. What a shame. You're not at all fit to act as my training partner."
"True. If we do not move forward, we learn nothing. The only choice is to push ahead."
"All we can do now is hope for the best and prepare for the worst. Nothing ventured, nothing gained."
Chapter 1:

"We have to find some way out of here, no matter what."
"This is exactly what Monokuma, or whoever's behind this, wants. They *want* us to fight. Don't you see?"
"But I'm not upset by what I saw. If you're overpowered, you must accept your death. That is the only way of my family. But still...I refuse to believe they would lose so easily. How...?"
"Either way, we can't run away from the situation, so we have no choice but to move forward."
"Since we won't be able to help investigate, we're putting our faith in the rest of you."
"We can't run away from the situation, so we have no choice but to move forward."
"I try not to make assumptions like that. I simply don't know whether or not you did this. Whatever decision the rest of you come up with, I will follow your lead."
"There's no point in standing around here. Settle your resolve and step into the future."
Chapter 2:

"Well...staying there, with her scent still hanging in the air... That would hurt just as much."
"If I didn't get my blood pumping early in the morning, it would throw off my rhythm for the entire day."
"Friendship between men seems very...simplistic. Nothing like what I'm used to with girls."
"That's not important. What matters right now is that we find out what happened..."
"I can't imagine a worse situation than dealing with a stupid murderer..."
"Chihiro's presence here was...especially weak. Her body, and her soul. To target such a helpless being... It's unforgivable. What a wretched beast to do such a thing... I...I cannot forgive this!"
"I will uncover the villain who performed such heinous acts on a weaker individual..."
"I am struck silent by how quickly you gave up..."
Chapter 3:

"Well, whatever else we do today, first we should eat. We can't do anything on an empty stomach."
"...I believe you. No matter what anyone else might say, I will believe whatever you say, no matter what."
"Whatever you subject us to, we will not break."
"She's right. You can't simply purchase a person's life."
"Just stop. Pressing others about their personal finances is...ugly." (to Toko)
"Waking up for our breakfast meeting is fine, of course. But getting up a little early s better... You can exercise in your room till nighttime ends. A big meal after working up a sweat is...divine."
"Kyoko's right. If anyone dares disturb our peace any further... ...they'll have to deal with me."
"If you lay a finger on Hina...I will show you no mercy!"
"Our opponent is very dangerous. We don't know what they're capable of. Even here..."
"Byakuya... If something's happened to Toko, I'll never forgive you!"
"I don't disagree, but our lives are on the line. If this is what it takes, we have to do it."
"Your confusing statements don't make any sense. You're only making things more complicated."
"I suppose sometimes it's easiest to miss what's right beneath your nose. Well then, we'd better go check."
"I've made a decision... I will no longer retreat, no longer compromise, no longer regret... I've made my decision! I'm going...to resist you!"
Chapter 4:

"I... I'm... Who would ever believe in someone who doesn't believe in themselves?"
"I'm going to challenge them. Even if it means we both go down, I *will* defeat them. *That* is how I intend to take responsibility."
"I didn't know what to do. I went back and forth about confiding in you again and again... But I was scared. I thought if I told you, you might think less of me."
"To hurt Hina... Damn you...! To leave me alone, but hurt her... What is this...? What isssss thiiiiiissss!? Grrrrnnnnhhhh! Unforgivable... I can't forgive them!"
"Hiro...if you want to hate someone, hate me. If you want to hurt someone, hurt ME! WHHHHYYYYYYYY!!!"
"I...can't calm down... I don't care if I suffer for this. It's my fault, after all. But now *you're suffering because of me... You tried to protect me, but because of me... ...my closest friend got hurt! Because of me... ...my friends are all going to kill each other. This is all...my responsibility."
"Hina... Please, don't think of things like that. They're not my enemy. They're...friends." (About Byakuya, Toko, and Yasuhiro)
"H-Hina... I...I'm so glad I got to meet you..."
"You might not see the importance of a dojo, but my family has watched over it for over 300 years. I couldn't let it be destroyed under my watch. So even if it meant my own life, I had to protect it. That's how I saw things... However, as I lived here with all of you... As I lived here with Hina... ...my resolve began to weaken. Watching everyone fight with such despair, trying so desperately to stay alive... ...I saw the weakness in my own heart, the mistake of succumbing to the mastermind. And more than anything... ...I cannot betray those who would call me their friend. That's how I came to feel. Of course, I understand if you all hate me. All of this is because of my own weakness... I'm perfectly willing to accept whatever attack you may want to make on me. So this is my atonement for betraying you. That's what I had in mind... But unfortunately, that's not enough. This won't end with just me accepting your hatred. My own situation has started having an effect on more people than just me... Which is exactly what the mastermind wanted when they revealed my betrayal. My betrayal brought suspicion, disharmony... The mastermind knew that eventually it would escalate into someone murdering someone else. Of course, I'm still responsible for that, as well. I have an obligation to get this situation under control. And to fulfill that obligation, I've decided to do as the mastermind has commanded. I will do as I was told, and commit murder. But I've decided... The one I'm going to kill is... ...myself. If the mastermind demands that I kill someone, then that someone will be me. Then my dojo will be safe, and above all else, none of you will have to kill anyone. When I die, the source of conflict among you all dies with me. For that, I'm willing to give up my life. If it can save you, then sacrificing my own life could have no greater meaning. Whatever you think of me, please know that you are all my most treasured friends... I've never had people like you in my life..."
"Finally...Hina, I want to apologize to you especially. The reason I didn't tell you any of this is because I knew you would try to stop me. I'm really, truly sorry. But please don't be sad. If I can thwart the mastermind's plans, if I can keep you from killing each other... ...that's enough for me. This is the path that I have chosen. This is the only way I have left to distinguish myself. And you can use this note to bring the Class Trial to a quick end. I'm so sorry to ask you to do something so unpleasant, but I have to leave the rest to you. Please talk to Byakuya, Toko, and Hiro on my behalf. I can't tell anyone about my plan while I'm alive, but I wanted you to understand why I'm doing this. In the end, though, I hope to show myself through actions and not words. Hopefully then they'll see... I never saw you as my enemy. You were only ever my friend, who I wanted to help as much as possible... Hina...whatever it takes, survive. Survive along with everyone else. No matter what...just survive."
"And let me just say this to the mastermind. I'm not going to just lay down and die. I *will* fight you, you bastard. No matter what. ...And that's seriously it!"
List of 
GamesAnimeLight NovelsMangaStage Plays
DISTRUST (Scrapped)
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (Referenced; her giant replica featured in Chapter 4)
Danganronpa: Unlimited Battle
Cyber Danganronpa VR The Class Trial (Referenced)

PSP『ダンガンロンパ』狩猟参戦!!
PSP『ダンガンロンパ』狩猟参戦!!

In the 16th Monokuma Theater of the re-release of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc on the PS Vita, there is a short clip of a parody fighting game staring Sakura called Sakura's Revenge. She fights through a horde of enemies, only to begin to face down a giant Monokuma, where then some text pops up stating the game development has been canceled, but encouraging the player to buy Danganronpa for themselves and all their friends to see its release.
The origin of this video comes from an ad made to promote the first release of Danganronpa on the PSP.
Sakura's statue in SDRIn Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, there is a large statue of Sakura in the Grape House inside the Funhouse labeled "Ogre", and Nekomaru Nidai told Hajime Hinata that he met the person depicted in the statue once in the mountains. In School Mode, Sakura mentions she has trained in the mountains. In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Nekomaru and Sakura confirm that they did indeed meet in the mountains and train together.
Sakura's English voice actress, Jessica Gee-George, is married to Leon Kuwata and Shuichi Saihara's English voice actor, Grant George.
In a series of tweets from Kazutaka Kodaka during Valentine's Day of February 2013, he tweeted "in-character" as several of the Danganronpa cast, including Sakura.The tweet translates into this:
"Take this, though I cannot vouch for how it tastes. I-It was my first time making chocolate…"
On Sakura's birthday in 2017, Kazutaka Kodaka tweeted an "in-character" birthday message to celebrate it.
The tweet translates into this:
Ogami: "Hmph, chocolate, eh? Lately thanks to Asahina’s influence I have been going to eat sweets on my days off. I gratefully accept this. Of course I will also have protein coffee with it. Protein is a wonder drug that can heal any wound and cure any ailment."

Danganronpa 1 CG - Sayaka Maizono singing with her idol groupSayaka was raised solely by her father, as her mother had passed away. Because her father worked long hours every day, Sayaka spent a lot of time alone at home. The only thing that kept her from feeling lonely was the idol live show she watched on television. The idol girls' smiles were a source of strength for her, and she became determined to become an idol herself so that she could give strength to other people. She did some some bad things and made many sacrifices in order to achieve her dream.
Sayaka and Makoto Naegi both went to Sixth Black Root Middle School, though were unaware of each other's character because they weren't in the same classes and social groups. On one occasion, Sayaka saw Makoto nurse an injured crane back to health after it got lost and stuck in the school pool. This action touched Sayaka, and, after that incident, she wanted to get to know Makoto more. Unfortunately, they ended up graduating middle school without interacting with each other, and went to different high schools.

Sayaka was later scouted for Hope's Peak Academy's Class 78th, where she met Makoto once again.

Prior To The 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc #04
Danganronpa 3 Side Despair Sayaka Photo Book
Sayaka posed for an idol photobook on at least one occasion, which was revealed when a copy was traded to Teruteru Hanamura by Nagito Komaeda. It appears to contain photos of her in revealing outfits, and is likely to be one of the "bad things" that Sayaka did to achieve her dream. 
The 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc #11
Makoto and Sayaka DR3D11During the Tragedy, Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. The class agreed to his plan, and they sealed the building together. Sayaka is seen talking with Makoto as the rest of the students begin to seal the school. After Makoto trips over a piece of paper, she tells him to be careful, as it would be extremely hard to help him should he get injured. Makoto assures her that the Tragedy would be over soon, to which she agrees. The students lived peacefully inside the school building for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.
Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Sayaka was among those who were chosen to attend Hope's Peak Academy as part of Class 78th. Her, along with her fellow classmates, ended up being trapped inside the school, completely unaware that at the time that they had already been memory-wiped of their two years of school life together. Sayaka is around 19 years old, though she believed that she was only 17 because of the memory loss.

After losing their memories, Sayaka and Makoto were the only two students who still remembered each other since they attended the same middle school. Due to their previous familiarity they became close, and Sayaka assigned herself as an assistant to Makoto.

Danganronpa 1 CG - Sayaka Maizono's idol group in Sayaka's motive video (6)The students soon became forced into the mutual killing incident, in which the only way to escape was to kill a fellow student. As an incentive to murder, the students were each given a DVD featuring a video from Monokuma which implied that their loved ones were in danger. Sayaka's DVD showed the other members of her band apparently either dead or unconscious.
The DVD deeply traumatized Sayaka, and she began devising a plan to murder Leon Kuwata and make it appear that Makoto was responsible for his death. She had Makoto promise he would do anything it took to help her escape, and he took an ornamental golden sword from outside the gym and kept it in his room for defense. In the evening, Sayaka knocked on Makoto's door, appearing visibly frightened, claiming that someone had tried to get into her room. Because she felt unsafe in her own room, Makoto agreed to switch rooms with her, and the pair traded room keys.

Sayaka's 
Danganronpa 1 Chapter 1 Body Discovery
Danganronpa 1 Chapter 1 Body Discovery

Unknown to Makoto, Sayaka then switched the name plates on their dorm room doors. She wrote a note on Makoto's notepad, claiming she'd found a way to escape, and slipped a note under Leon's door. Later, when Leon arrived, Sayaka attacked him with a knife she had taken from the kitchen earlier in the day. Leon grabbed the ornamental sword on Makoto's shelf and used it to defend himself, breaking Sayaka's wrist in the process and causing her to drop the knife. Sayaka fled into the bathroom and closed the door behind her. Not realizing that Makoto's bathroom door was broken and needed to be lifted in order to open, Leon believed the door was locked, and left to go and retrieve his school-issued tool kit in order to break in. After breaking into the bathroom, Leon then stabbed Sayaka in the stomach. With the last of her strength, Sayaka wrote Leon's name (appearing upside down as 11037) in her own blood. Later after the class trial had concluded, Kyoko Kirigiri stated that this was likely Sayaka trying to make amends to Makoto.
Post-Killing School 
11037
Main article: Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair
Makoto, who later joined the Future Foundation, used Sayaka's dying message "11037" as the password to the abandoned Hope's Peak Academy building on Jabberwock Island. Makoto told Hajime Hinata that the reason he set 11037 as the password because "a certain person", which is Sayaka, had once left that number behind to save him from trouble.

Makoto's 
Main article: Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc #11
Kirigiri and Maizono's tauntSayaka appears when Makoto attempts to test out a theory made by Kyoko, who had died recently. However, Makoto is brainwashed after watching a short video on a monitor, leading to him having a hallucination.
Sayaka appears in Makoto's hallucination first, alongside Kyoko. Sayaka taunts Makoto, reminding him that he failed to keep his promise to her, and asking why he's still alive. As their classmates appear behind her and Kyoko, Sayaka is shown with blood dripping from her mouth and staining her clothing, reminiscent of her death. Makoto grabs a knife to kill himself, and Sayaka tells Makoto to come join them, as she and Kyoko urge him to continue. However, Juzo Sakakura interferes and stopped Makoto from committing suicide.

Nagito's Illusory 
Main article: Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no Hakaimono
Sayaka appeared as an illusion in Nagito Komaeda's imaginary world following his death in the Neo World Program. Her illusion's personality appears to be based on a generic shoujo manga protagonist. Much like Sayaka's real-life counterpart, she is cheerful, sweet, and has a supporting personality.

Sayaka was worried of being late to school and began running hurriedly down the path while simultaneously holding a piece of toast in her mouth. She accidentally bumped into Nagito, pushing him into a moving truck and sending him flying into the nearby shrub where he experienced a number of unlucky circumstances. As a result of Nagito's bad luck, Sayaka received good luck, and was helped to stand back up by Makoto Naegi. Makoto represented himself in a far more confident and cool way and Sayaka was impressed by this, and they share a romantic moment. Later, Sayaka held Makoto by the arm as they walked together happily, showing Nagito how happiness can still be created without talent.

Creation and 
Sayaka Maizono Beta Designs 1.2 Reload ArtbookSayaka was not originally developed to be an idol, but instead be a graceful princess-type. She was planned to be the protagonist's childhood friend. At one point in the initial design stages she was a plump character. The character designer, Rui Komatsuzaki, calls Sayaka's design "the most orthodox" out of all the characters. Her design turned out to be a "basic cute young girl". In Komatsuzaki's opinion, her expressions characterize her rather than her design.
Leon and Sayaka were both used as the game's base male and female characters, respectively, to establish a base body type and height. They were both used as stand-ins during many stages of development, and their character designs are very recognisable as early as the scrapped project DISTRUST. As a result of both of their designs being relatively unchanged from the early design stages, the development team grew tired of them and so they were the first characters to be killed in the final published game.The team also got the idea of making a character who seemed like the deuteragonist actually be the first victim from the movie Psycho (1960 film) by Alfred Hitchcock.

Sayaka's Birthday, July 7, coincides with Tanabata, also known as The Festival of the Stars. The Japanese festival Tanabata celebrates the annual reunion of the mythical lovers Princess Orihime and cowherd Hikoboshi, who were separated across the heavenly river Amanogawa by Orihime's father, Emperor Tentei. It's likely this date was chosen to parallel the relationship between the famous idol Sayaka and the plain boy Makoto being reunited.


舞園 (Maizono) uses the Kanji 舞 mai - "dance" and 園 sono - "garden", referencing her love for performance. Her first name is written in hiragana as 'さやか', making it strictly phonetic. There are many existent kanji spellings for "Sayaka", the most common translating as "bright", with other possible spellings meaning "blossom", "crystal" and "lovely".

Alternate 
Sonia-Nevermind-Pixel-for-Jpn-Template	The section below is based on non-localized content only available in Japanese.
As such, this information is based on fan-contributed translation.

In the Danganronpa Visual Fanbook, there is a description of executions for all of the characters who did not have one. Sayaka's execution is called Maizono Sayaka's Final Performance and described as the following: 

"Maizono is placed on a stage, with the form of a giant beartrap along its edge. She is required to sing in order to fill the a score meter until it's full. However, just as the meter is about to reach the highest score, Monokuma destroys it, triggering the 'Failure' condition. This causes the giant beartrap to slam shut, killing Maizono instantly."
Danganronpa 1 CG - Everyone escapes (Another End) (2)The Danganronpa 3 box set included a feature detailing an alternate ending of Danganronpa called Danganronpa Another End which ultimately never made it out of the development phase. In this ending, all of the students escape, at the cost of giving up their talent forever. In Sayaka's ending, she tells Makoto that she will talk to her bandmates and decide what to do next, but that even if she can't perform with them anymore, they'll always be her precious friends. She tells Makoto that as long as she's fighting beside him, there's nothing they can't do. 
Danganronpa IF, is a what-if scenario light novel in which Sayaka doesn't die. Sayaka's scheme to frame Makoto was interrupted by Makoto fainting, and was therefore never carried out. Very concerned and worried, Sayaka took him to the infirmary, intending to watch over him until she was interrupted by Mukuro Ikusaba. Later, when pressured about it by Monokuma, she appears nervous and unhappy, vowing to tell her friends what she had almost done when the crisis is over. Sayaka ultimately escapes Hope's Peak alive with the rest of her classmates before the Mutual Killing Game properly begins.


Sayaka is 5'5" and weighs 108lbs. She is considered very attractive, as she has a large fanbase of both boys and girls. She wears eyeliner and blush, which suggests that she wears makeup to help keep this appearance. She has long, dark blue hair, which she holds in place with several clips. Her eyes are also dark blue.
Her school uniform is a traditional seifuku-style Japanese school uniform comprising of a long sleeved white shirt with a blue sailor collar and a pink ribbon bow tie with tails, a blue tartan skirt, black thigh-high socks and brown, buckled shoes. Her school crest is visible on her undershirt and on her sleeve.

Sayaka's idol clothing is a sleeveless pink and white dress with a pink ribbon and ruffles at the bottom, which ends just above her knees. She also wears an intricate matching ribbon on the right side of her hair and white knee-high boots. Her hair is tied into two pig tails with pink clips on her bangs. In her official art, Sayaka wears her stage outfit, which consists of a ruffled, collared pink and white dress, a pink bow on the front and knee-high white boots. She wears a black see-through armband on her right arm and a thin white arm band and a fluffy white bracelet on her left arm. She also wears a large pink bow over a white headband and she has multiple star hair clips.

DR1 Present 107 Sayaka's UndergarmentsShe wears light pink lacy underwear.

Seeing as she's an idol, Sayaka has a cheerful, sweet, and supporting personality. Despite her idol career, Sayaka actually enjoys cooking.

Sayaka develops a bond with Makoto Naegi, whom she considers her friend, assisting him on every occasion in Chapter 1. However, she tends to hide her feelings when she is under great pressure by putting on her public persona. She also cares greatly for her band members, and would not hesitate to do something if anything were to happen to one of them, including things that could hurt others. When pushed to her limit, Sayaka will do anything even if it's a risk. After she watched Killing Among Loved Ones, she only thinks of how she could escape from the academy, even planning to betray Makoto.

Sayaka mentions that she often finds herself focused on a particular person, but pushes these thoughts out of her mind to commit herself further to her idol career.

Sayaka has an amazing intuition, as she can easily tell what people are thinking. She often joked about being psychic, only to admit that she was kidding later on.

Talent and 
Ultimate Pop 
Danganronpa 1 Sayaka Maizono English Game IntroductionAs the Ultimate Pop Sensation, Sayaka is said to have a mesmerizing voice and amazing dancing skills. Because of this she is an exceptional performer, and has gained many fans and admirers all over the world. This is actually what led Hope's Peak Academy to approach her.
Play sound
Sample - Sayaka Maizono Song (Audio Drama)
Unnamed song Sample

Four of Sayaka's songs have been released: Negaigoto Ensemble, Monochrome Answer, an unnamed song, and Sky Blue Canvas.
In other 
Sayaka's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc:

Ultimate Pop Sensation
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「アイドル」	Super High School Level Idol
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"偶像"	Super High School Level Idol
中文超高校级的"偶像"	Super High School Level Idol(DRtA)
Français L'Idol Ultime	Ultimate Idol (DRV3)
DeutschSuper-Idol	Super Idol (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Idol Liceale	Super High School Level Idol(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Idol	Super High School Student Level: Idol (DRtA)
Extraordinary 
Sayaka has amazing intuition, and often knows what people are thinking, even when it isn't obvious. She claimed this was due to psychic powers she joked about having. During Sayaka's School Mode ending, Makoto has flashes of events from the main story involving him and Sayaka, who also seems to remember said events. This seems to imply that Sayaka really does have a limited amount of psychic ability.


Family:
Her 
Her father is the only family Sayaka has left, however, Sayaka states that her father was never really around the house much, due to him staying late at work. Because of this, Sayaka was often lonely, and didn't know her father very well.

Her Idol 
Sayaka is very close to the girls in her idol group, as they are the ones who helped her achieve her dreams. They are the people she cares about most which are confirmed by the fact that they became her Captives. When learning that her group broke up, Sayaka attempted to kill one of her classmates and frame some of her close friends only because she assumed they were dead. Satomi Aoba and Ayaka Haneyama are two of the girls in Sayaka's idol group and very good friends of hers. So far, out of the four girls in Sayaka's idol group, only their names have been revealed.

Class 78th:
Makoto 
Before the events of the first game, Sayaka and Makoto went to the same middle school but never talked to each other due to being in different social circles. However, she became interested in Makoto after seeing him nurse an injured crane when it got lost and stuck in the pool at their school. She wanted to get to know him more, but unfortunately, both of them ended up graduating without ever contacting each other.

In the game, Sayaka eventually had a chance to talk with Makoto and befriended him. Mutual attraction formed between the two and several parts in the game hinted that she actually has feelings for him, even going so far as to act as his "assistant." However, after she received her "Motivational DVD" from Monokuma, she fell into despair. Makoto tried to comfort Sayaka and switched rooms with her when she was scared. This is later revealed to be an attempt to frame Makoto for the murder of Leon, but her plan backfired, and she ended up being killed by Leon in the process.

Before dying, Sayaka wrote Leon's name (read as 11037) as a hint for the culprit. Whether she really tried to save Makoto from being framed as the culprit or she wrote Leon's name as an act of revenge is unknown, however Kyoko theorized that she regretted her actions at the end and so had left the message in order to save Makoto, and he believed that. The manga adaptation explicitly demonstrates that Sayaka wrote Leon's name in a deliberate attempt to save Makoto from suspicion.

In Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, Makoto explains to Hajime that he set 11037 as the code to save the remaining students because it is a number that refers to someone who saved him when he was in trouble.

Sayaka's Japanese voice actress, Makiko Ōmoto, said in an interview (in Danganronpa THE ANIMATION Official Complete Book) that Sayaka's character song, 'Monochrome Answer', might hint at her relationship with Makoto before the Killing School Life. Ōmoto also mentioned that when Sayaka's "ghost" appeared to Makoto in Danganronpa 3, she was told not to speak in a scary voice, as she was supposed to represent "a guy thinking of his first love right before his death". Makoto's crush on Sayaka is also confirmed in the first anime's relationship chart. The chart does not mention her liking him back and it has not been explicitly stated that she returned his romantic feelings, however, it is heavily implied in one of Sayaka's Free Time Events. She tells Makoto that she is interested in someone, while the latter notes that she was looking intently at him while lightly blushing, but follows up by stating she is unable to act on her feelings due to wanting to escape the school first. In the Danganronpa V3 bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Sayaka cooks a dish for Makoto, which he enjoys. They then talk about the old days and want to spend more time together.

Leon 
Though the two are not seen interacting much during the killing game, as a womanizer Leon quickly developed a strong interest in Sayaka and apparently planned to approach her at some point. In relationship charts featured in the art book, Leon admires how cute she is and considers her a "pure-hearted girl", which is a type he is into. Sayaka takes a note of that she is his type with a slight smile and blush.

When put under the pressure of the Motivational Video, Sayaka chose Leon as her murder victim and planned to frame Makoto, possibly because she was aware of his attraction towards her. In the end, her plan backfired as Leon was able to defend himself, which led her to flee to the bathroom. Though he claimed it was only self-defense, Leon made a conscious decision to counter attack and murdered the girl.

In the non-canonical manga adaptation, Sayaka and Leon's relationship is quite different. They developed a friendship after Leon decided he wanted to be friends with her because of his ambition to change his talent from Ultimate Baseball Star to Ultimate Musician. Leon found Sayaka had the same passion he did, so he wanted to get closer to her. In this version, Sayaka chose Leon as her victim because he respects Sayaka the most, so she could kill him easily. After Sayaka had run away from Leon upon his counter attack Leon decided to follow Sayaka to the bathroom so he could calm her down. In the end, Leon ended up murdering Sayaka by accident.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Sayaka Maizono & School Mode/Sayaka Maizono
During Free Time Events, Makoto can choose to talk to Sayaka in order to learn more about her. If he gives her a present that she likes and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and she will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Sayaka's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give him an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

123Dead
Sayaka Maizono Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Sparrow	Crane	Heron
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 16 Kitten Hairclip DR1 Present 17 Everlasting Bracelet DR1 Present 18 Love Status Ring DR1 Present 46 Rose in Vitro DR1 Present 47 Cherry Blossom Bouquet

Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Sayaka grants the following skill:

Melodious Voice	Increases damage to the opponent when a statement is destroyed. Effective during the Bullet Time Battle.	3 SP

DR1Extra
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"Hi, I'm Sayaka Maizono. I look forward to getting to know you!"
"I'm psychic. Kidding! I just have really good intuition."
Chapter 1:

"I know how I look, but I've actually built some pretty good muscle jumping up and down on stage!"
"Like I said, I'm psychic. Come on, I'm just kidding! Seriously, I just have amazing intuition."
"And to thank you for helping me out, I'm going to become your Ultimate Assistant! Yup! I'm your assistant now! I'm going to help you out as much as I can, so let's get out of here together!"
"I may not be the best assistant in the world, but I'll give it everything I've got."
"Well, better to have than have not! At least we don't have to worry about surviving like wild animals."
"Yeah! It sounds like you two are so close now you're fighting like sisters!"
"Everyone just calm down, please! We need to stop and think about what to do from here."
"So I just...want to be able to protect myself no matter what happens."
"Like I said, I'm psychic. Come on, I'm just kidding! Seriously, I just have amazing intuition."
"If I've got you on my side, I guess I don't need a weapon after all!"
"I've never really done it before. I don't have a lot of time to just...do nothing."
"I... My dream is... I've always wanted to be a star, as long as I can remember. I grew up without a mother, you know... And my dad worked really late every night. I was always home alone... I was just a kid, ya know? So I was really lonely. But that all changed when I saw a pop star on TV for the first time. She was so pretty, like a princess. And she could sing, and dance... But more than anything else, there was her smile. Looking at her smile, I could feel my loneliness melting away. I decided that's what I wanted to be someday. I wanted to give that kind of encouragement to others. Eventually, that became my dream. I did whatever it took to reach that dream. I mean it. Even some things that...weren't so pleasant. I honestly believed that as long as you kept chasing your dreams, someday they had to come true. But to that, you can't take off your eyes off of your dream, not even for a second. Even if sometimes it's a bad dream... Whether you're awake, whether you're asleep... To make your dream a reality, you have to keep your gaze fixed on it no matter what. In that world, if you lose focus for even a split second, you get left behind. You have to keep on swimming against the current, without even taking time to breathe. That's the kind of world my dream lives in."
"Oh no, don't get the wrong idea. It's super fun! But...that's exactly what scares me. I enjoy every single day I wake up and get to do what I do."
"Everyone in our group is amazing. We're rivals in a way, but they all mean so much to me. We've been performing together since we were young, so they're all like family to me. Without them, I would have given up on my dream a long time ago. To work together, and fulfill our dreams together, has brought me so much happiness... But that's the thing that scares me the most. If the world gets tired of us, then what happens? What happens to us? Then the dream dies, those wonderful days come to an end, and everyone goes their separate ways... So that's the reason I decided to come to Hope's Peak. Well...they say that if you graduate from here, success is basically guaranteed. Which means I could keep on performing with my best friends, for ever and ever. At least, that's what I thought. I really did believe that, but... ...now we're trapped here, with no way out. They're probably waiting for me... While I'm in here, the world out there is forgetting about me. Minute by minute, we're all disappearing. But still... I can't afford to be stuck in here!"
"...If Makoto's going, I'm going with him. It's not safe to walk around this place alone."
"Yeah...I'm fine. Actually, no...how could I possibly be fine? What did we do to end up like this...? Why are they doing such terrible things to us...? I want out! Let me out of here right now!"
"Why...? Why is this happening to me? To kill, or be killed... I just can't take this anymore...!"
"Can I...can I believe what you said? That you'll help me get out? No matter what it takes...? Makoto... You're the only one I can trust. So please... No matter what happens, please always be there for me. I need you on my side..."
"Thank you, Makoto. Hearing you say that, I feel like I can keep going. I can get through this...as long as you're here with me. Like you said, I'm your assistant."
"Like I said, I'm psychic. ... What if I *wasn't* just kidding...?"
"Oh, and about what I said before... When I said I was psychic, it really was a joke. Honestly, I'm just very perceptive."
List of 
GamesAnimeLight NovelsMangaMusicStage Plays
DISTRUST (scrapped)
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (mentioned)
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls (mentioned)
Danganronpa: Unlimited Battle
Cyber Danganronpa VR The Class Trial

Sayaka says in her Free Time Events, in response to Makoto's answer 'crane', that she's the crane he rescued at that time during middle school and that she wants to weave clothes for him. This is actually a reference to a popular Japanese folktale, Tsuru no Ongaeshi or "The Crane's Return of Favor". In the story, a crane which was saved by a man disguised itself as a woman and devoted herself to help him make a living by weaving beautiful fabric for him to sell. However once the man realized that it was the crane who sustained him, she was already gone. The story is somewhat similar to chapter 1, where Makoto learns only during the class trial that in her dying moments, Sayaka used whatever power she had left to clear him of suspicion.
In The Demo of the game, Yasuhiro Hagakure was killed to avoid spoiling the true first death of the game.
In the original game, Sayaka is the one who discovers that the kitchen is restocked every day by Monokuma, however, in the anime adaptation, they changed it to Chihiro.
A younger sister of Sayaka's was planned to be introduced as part of the Warriors of Hope's Hit List in Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls. This idea, however, was scrapped once the game's developers realized that Sayaka having siblings would be inconsistent with her back story mentioned in the original game.
Sayaka's English voice actress, Dorothy Elias-Fahn, also voices Chihiro Fujisaki and Alter Ego, as well as Tsumugi Shirogane in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.
In a series of tweets from Kazutaka Kodaka during Valentine's Day of February 2013, he tweeted "in-character" as several of the Danganronpa cast, including Sayaka.The tweet translates into this:
"I brought cookies! They’re handmade! …Hmm? Did I make any for anyone else? Of course not, you. That was a silly thing to ask."

Toko is a very skinny female said to be around 19 years old in Danganronpa and Danganronpa Another Episode,though she believed herself to be 17 in the first game because of the memory loss. By the end of Danganronpa 3, she is a few years older and in her early twenties, around at least 21.

She is always seen in a Japanese school uniform with a noticeably lengthy skirt compared to those worn by other girls. She wears round eyeglasses, and her dark purple hair is tied in two long braids. The left side of her chin is marked by a small mole.

However, in Danganronpa Another Episode, Toko lets her hair flow freely instead of being kept in braids. She wears six hairclips and possesses an ahoge. Her dress is noticeably more tattered than it was in the first game, revealing the list of victims that Genocide Jack wrote on Toko.

Toko has tally-marks carved onto her upper thighs, a count of how many people Genocide Jack has killed.

Toko's appearance in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.


Toko is intellectually gifted, but she has problems in social behavior. It's been stated that she either never learned or never bothered to learn social skills. She even considers herself a gloomy outcast, often deciding to distance from others.

Due to the constant bullying she faced as a child, Toko is highly suspicious of other people, frequently accusing them of thinking bad things about her. She expresses her opinions freely and extremely bluntly, which can come across mean and more than often rubbing people the wrong way, though she claims she is just being honest. She has unusually quick tendencies to self-victimize and she refuses to believe compliments from other people. She also is very self-conscious about her body and tends to think that other people consider her very ugly. At times, in Another Episode, she tries to appear as young as possible and she is paranoid that others might consider her "an old hag" However, she is also offended if her body is not considered attractive and adult-like.

Toko could often be seen stalking Byakuya Togami, seeing him as the "ideal boyfriend", behaving submissively toward him and calling him "master". After revealing her alternate identity, Genocide Jack, Toko's crush on Byakuya took on a more distinctively sexual undertone, and she was capable of neither proper judgment, nor control over her perverse fantasies. In Danganronpa Another Episode, it's confirmed that she's a masochist, though she also seems to have sadistic fantasies about Byakuya. Ironically, she has a tendency to scold other people for being indecent, sometimes with no good reason. Due to her paranoia, she easily assumes that boys have bad intentions if they wish to spend time alone with her.

Toko is also extremely afraid of blood and the dark due to very traumatic experiences. She also strongly dislikes bathing, to the point of fear, which might also be a result of an unknown trauma. Furthermore, she gains a fear of ghosts due to Komaru's ability to interact with them, even though she denied their existence previously.

In the first game, Byakuya was Toko's major motivator, to the point of harming others. Jack notably did so to Aoi Asahina, cutting her for slapping Byakuya when he relentlessly antagonized Sakura Ogami for being Monokuma's mole. Toko would rather be a blind follower of the group, even if the populist ideas clearly did not fit the situation. During the First Trial, Toko quickly condemned Makoto Naegi as a killer because Sayaka Maizono was in his bathroom.

In Danganronpa Another Episode, Toko revealed a slightly kinder and more caring side of herself as she traveled with Komaru throughout Towa City. Though she remained rather pessimistic and gloomy, she was more mature and stronger. She forced herself to be strong and believed that fighting against all odds is the only way out, often echoing Makoto's sentiments and begrudgingly ing him with the courage she had gained. When Komaru approached the point of giving in to despair, Toko encouraged her to stand up and face her fears. While not used to touching other people, she is later fine with hugging Komaru, and willing to comfort her friend though she says she isn't good at it.

As a result of her experiences in the killing game, Toko also became easily frustrated by people who give up and make excuses, calling them cowards. She accuses them of not being prepared to stand up for themselves, something that reminded her of her past self. She also took a stand in challenging her own fears; she no longer faints at the sight of blood, having taken Byakuya's advice about growing up. However, she still remained extremely disgusted at the sight of large amounts of blood.


Ultimate Writing 
Danganronpa 1 Toko Fukawa English Game IntroductionAs the Ultimate Writing Prodigy, Toko possesses extreme writing skills. The first time she knew that she has a talent for writing was when one of her teacher in elementary school found her love letter and later supported her to keep writing and expand her knowledge about literature.
One of her romance novels 'So Lingers the Ocean' was extremely popular. Even at her young age, she received many awards.

In other 
Toko's talent as it appears in official translations for the Danganronpa franchise.

Ultimate Writing Prodigy
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「文学少女」	Super High School Level Literary Girl
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"文學少女"	Super High School Level Literature Maiden
中文超高校级的"文学少女"	Super High School Level Literature Maiden(DRtA)
Français L'Auteure Ultime	Ultimate Author (DRV3)
DeutschSuper-Bücherwurm	Super Bookworm (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Topo di Biblioteca Liceale	Super High School Level Bookworm(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Rata de Biblioteca	Super High School Student Level: Bookworm (DRtA)
한국어초 고교급 문학소녀	Super High School Class Literary Girl(DR:AE)
‪中文(台灣)‬超高中級的文學少女	Super High School Level Literary Girl (DR:AE)

Prior to the 
At the hospital where Toko was born, a baby born at the same time died in a medical accident. It was unclear which mother's child was the dead baby. Both mothers refused to test their blood, as they both wanted their child to die. Around the child's accidental death, it became clear that the two women slept with the same man.

Toko lived with one father and two mothers. Though the circumstances are a bit unclear, it's been confirmed that she was mistreated as a child. She was once locked into a closet and forced to stay there for three days without food. This traumatic experience resulted in her developing a pathological fear of the dark. She experienced severe psychological pressure and at some point turned to novels for comfort, but the negative feelings were too strong. This childhood trauma caused Genocide Jack to split off. Jack killed several young men; the people on the Internet, unaware of her gender, started to call her Genocide Jack. Toko blamed her mothers for Genocide Jack's creation.

On top of it all, Toko didn't have friends and was bullied in school. When she was in third grade, someone's lunch money was stolen and it was found in her desk. Toko was blamed for the theft, and her classmates tied her up to the jungle gym with a garden hose.

Toko became extremely close to her pet stink bug, Kameko. She believed that Kameko was a special insect that could understand her feelings.

Toko's first love was a boy who she had been friends with in elementary school. When she found out he was moving away to Shikoku, she realized that she was indeed in love with him. Being too shy to tell him in person, she instead wrote him a letter. The next day, Toko found that the boy had pinned her letter on the bulletin board as a way of mocking her. Genocide Jack reacted by following the boy to Shikoku and killing him.

In Toko's eighth grade year, a boy from the neighboring class asked her out on a date completely out of the blue. She then spent three days and three nights planning the date. Toko eventually decided to go see an action movie. Halfway through it, her date disappeared. She later discovered that the boy had only asked her out because he lost a bet with his friends, causing her great emotional trauma.

However, the letter Toko wrote for her first love was read by her teacher. The teacher told her she had a way with words, which started Toko's career as a writer. One of her romance novels, 'So Lingers the Ocean', was a huge hit that managed to shoot fishermen to the top of all the "Hottest Men" polls. Despite her young age, Toko won several awards and was constantly on the top-selling list.

Toko used to attend Riverbank Girl's High School and was later invited to Hope's Peak Academy's 78th class as the Ultimate Writing Prodigy.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Toko was seen chatting with Byakuya and Yasuhiro Hagakure when Class 78th were working together to shelter the old school building during the Tragedy.

During The 
Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of the Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students take refuge in the Academy. The class agreed to this plan, and they sealed the building together and lived peacefully inside it for a year, not knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy 
Prologue - Welcome to 
At the start of the Mutual Killing Game of Class 78, Toko loudly accused everyone of persecuting her even though no one had, and then quickly became cooped-up and withdrawn.

Chapter 1 - To 
Toko was being cooped-up and withdrawn until the first trial that more of her personality was laid out in the open, including her perpetual obsession over ham.

Chapter 2 - Boy's Life of 
In Chapter 2, Toko starts to fall in love with Byakuya. However, the attraction is apparently far from mutual, as Byakuya seems utterly indifferent towards her. However, Toko seems blissfully unaware of this fact and always stays by Byakuya's side.

During the trial, Byakuya reveals that Toko has a split personality, which happens to be the infamous serial killer Genocide Jack.

Chapter 4 - All•Star•
In Chapter 4, Sakura sends Toko a message to meet with her at the rec room. Afraid of Sakura, she comes earlier than the meeting time and hides inside a locker. She sees Sakura enter the rec room, followed by Yasuhiro soon after.

Toko is shocked after Yasuhiro suddenly attacks Sakura with a Monokuma Bottle, causing Sakura to faint. Yasuhiro then creates a fake dying message on a magazine, writing Toko's name with Sakura's blood. After Yasuhiro escapes from the rec room, Toko nervously comes out from her hiding place to hide the magazine, but she accidentally places it upside down in her panic.

Joining the Future 
Toko and the others survived together in the apocalyptic world until they were found by the Future Foundation. They decided to join Future Foundation to fight against despair, and the Future Foundation helped them to recover their school memories.

However, Toko wasn't accepted as a full member of the Future Foundation and instead became an intern, since Genocide Jack was considered a threat. Toko, annoyed that Aoi and Yasuhiro became members first, strove to control Genocide Jack and become a full member. She promises Byakuya that she won't let Genocide Jack murder anyone ever again.

Danganronpa Gaiden: Killer 
Chapter 3 - Bessatsu Shounen Zetsubou 
Toko was seen in the explanation of the Tragedy, along with the survivors of the Killing School Life as one of the people integral in stopping the Tragedy's mastermind, Junko Enoshima.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Toko appears as one of the main protagonists in Danganronpa Another Episode, aiding Komaru in her journey to rescue Byakuya.

Chapter 1 - Crying for Love in 
Toko first appears in Chapter 1, after Genocide Jack brings Komaru to a safe point and switches back into Toko. She explains to Komaru that she is an ally, revealing that she can now control Genocide Jack using a stun-gun; Toko can switch with Genocide Jack for as long as the electrical charge lasts.

After Toko and Komaru succeed in getting rid of the Monokuma Units on the rooftop, Toko introduces herself to Komaru. She explains that Genocide Jack has been completely tamed by her stun-gun and would not be committing murder ever again, but that she would only use the stun-gun in an emergency, because using it too many times would fry her brain.

Later, Toko gets mad when she overhears that Komaru was saved by Byakuya, saying she won't let anyone get in her way of love. Toko decides to remain in Towa City to save Byakuya from the Warriors of Hope, a group of kids who murder adults in the name of Monokuma.

Toko and Komaru find two corpses near the shelter, and they arrive at the supply room where the generator is located. When they succeed in opening the shelter, Komaru asks Toko to bring her the Megaphone Hacking Gun, but she refuses, claiming that she is allergic to machines. They encounter more Monokuma Units and a Monokuma Kid standing next to a gift box.

Komaru thinks the Monokuma Kid was the one who she met in the park, but Toko refutes this theory. The Monokuma Kids, as Toko describes it, have been cooperating with Monokuma to kill all adults. Komaru takes the gift box, and the Monokuma Kid runs away from them. They continue their escape, finding many books along the way. Finally, they arrive at the Monitoring Room and discover a game machine (Monoc-Man), which Toko says has been played by the Monokuma Kids.

The machine actually shows the map of the hospital lobby. Toko suggests that Komaru should try not to get discovered by the Monokuma Units and finally they succeed in escaping from the hospital.

After Toko and Komaru succeed in getting out of the hospital, Komaru asks Toko how she recognized her. Toko is caught off guard by this for a few moments, before reluctantly answering that she overheard Byakuya mentioning Komaru's name in the Future Foundation's helicopter. She explains that she is not a formal member because of Jack's existence still being considered as a threat, but that she was still a research assistant. She can only become a formal member until she could controlled Genocide Jack to not kill people again. This explains why she does not wear a Future Foundations uniform. It is also revealed that she didn't have any other clothes except her dark purple sailor uniform. Komaru explains to Toko that her only plan is to escape from the city because if she stayed, she would only be attacked by more Monokuma Units. However, she eventually changes her plan to stick together with Toko to help search and help Byakuya. Komaru, who was very thankful that Toko is sticking with her, hugs her. Komaru then notices that there is a bridge to escape from the city, so the duo heads for Towa Bridge.

On the way to the Towa Bridge, Toko tells Komaru to test her Hacking Gun by trying to move an elite Towa electric car. At this point they are met with many Monokuma Units and Monokuma Kids who had been killing adults. After they work together to climb a big container, they are suddenly attacked by two Bomber Monokuma. Fortunately, Komaru defeats them and the duo arrives at a ruined hotel.

In the second floor of the hotel, Toko and Komaru find two phones that led Komaru to believe that they could contact the police to save them. But Toko states that the internet and cell phones have been disconnected. They also discovered many books in the hotel rooms, which they later discuss.

After that, Toko and Komaru arrive in front of the lifts. Here, they discover a Kill List card. Komaru learns from Toko that she is not the only one who has been targeted by the Warriors of Hope. It is also learned that The Warriors are also the ones who created the cards as a way to more efficiently hunt down their targets. Toko and Komaru, using the lifts, go downstairs and use another game machine as a map. Toko suggests that Komaru try to destroy the Monokuma unit with one blow. Komaru then shoots the bomb packs of a Bomber Monokuma, which explode and take care of the whole Monokuma Unit.

Succeeding in defeating the Monokuma Units, Toko and Komaru is again met by a gifting Monokuma Kid. This one gives Komaru a letter, which reveals a challenge from the Monokuma Kid. They want Toko and Komaru to answer their riddles and deduce the secret password. It's revealed that the secret password was written as "hell" based on the sofa's arrangement. After defeating the Monokuma Kid by cracking the secret password, they finally get out from the hotel and could see the bridge near that area.

Upon arriving on the side of the bridge, Toko feels that something isn't right, questioning why they so easily arrived at the bridge, almost unscathed. Toko reasons that something dangerous might come from the bridge. While they both ponder the dilemma, a boy named Yuta Asahina suddenly approaches them. He then introduces himself, leaving Toko shocked upon hearing his last name.

Toko, Komaru, and Yuta had hoped to cross the bridge in order to escape, but soon find that half of the bridge has been destroyed. This realization sends Yuta into a mental breakdown, before he is reminded by Toko that they must keep moving if they want to survive. Yuta is motivated by her words, to return to the city before the bridge completely collapses.

Though the bridge had completely collapsed, Toko, Komaru, and Yuta manage to escape to safety. Not dismayed by the fallen bridge, Yuta decides that he will swim out of Towa City. Komaru asks him if it is really far to the other shore, before Toko chimes in and warns that there may be some strange creatures living in the sea because of the pollution. Yuta confidently answers that the only thing that he needs to do is to be careful, although he admits that it will be very troublesome.

Toko tried to stop him, but to no avail. While swimming, his bracelet is activated (as a result of being too far from Towa City) and explodes, killing him instantly. Komaru is devastated by what happened to Yuta and bursts into tears, stating that it's impossible to escape. But Toko encourages her to at least die trying to find a way out instead of waiting to die (adding quietly that they were words from Makoto). While encouraging Komaru, she states that she can't hide Yuta's death from Aoi, his big sister. The two then try to use the underground subway station to escape, by returning to the place where they left the hotel first.

On the way, Toko and Komaru meet with a Monokuma Unit lead by a Siren Monokuma, which they easily get rid of. Inside a building called "Koban", they meet with a Monokuma Kid who gives Komaru a new bullet. This Truth Bullet is called "Dance" mode. It is in this building that the duo also find another game machine to use as a map to escape from the building.

After Toko and Komaru succeed in defeating the Monokuma Unit using Komaru's new truth bullet, they meet with an adult who survived the Monokuma Kids attack alone after his parents and son were killed by Monokuma Units. When Komaru invites him to went along, he rejects because his right leg was injured heavily by the Monokuma Unit. Toko responds that it's fine to leave him alone because it would be troublesome to carry him along, and as they leave suggests that hiding is the best way for that man to survive the riots.

Upon arrived at the underground subway station, the gate is seen to be shuttered. Komaru starts to get panicked, but Toko calms her down by telling her that the shutter was locked by someone and that there must be a clue as to who did it somewhere. They look around and eventually come across a key on the corpse of a station worker that was killed by the Monokuma Kids.

As soon as Komaru takes the key, a Monokuma Kid appears, hits her and steals the key. Toko and Komaru then chase the Monokuma Kid until they arrive at the construction site. Inside it, the Monokuma Kid climbs the building, knowing that Toko and Komaru won't climb it as well. Komaru suggests to them that they should go around the building entrances and trap the Monokuma Kid in a "dead end" area. Arriving at the dead end, they find a challenge-letter from the Monokuma Kid to come to the hospital, the place where Toko and Komaru's journey began.

Arriving at the hospital, Toko and Komaru are trapped by the Monokuma Kid inside the operation room where they encounter a Junk Monokuma. Komaru tries to escape, but the door is locked until they defeated the Junk Monokuma. They follow the Monokuma Kid until they finally arrive in the Director Room, where they get another challenge from the Monokuma Kid.

Komaru earns the new Truth Bullet called as "View" bullet. Her task is to uncover the secret of the "four public figures" photo sequence and enter the secret password to get the key of the subway station. After they managed to defeat the Monokuma Kid, which later seen crying and running away, they take the key from the safe and returned to the underground subway station.

In front of the subway station, Toko and Komaru are confronted by a panicked female adult who can't say things clearly and keeps apologizing to Komaru and Toko. After talking with the adult, the duo is finally able to open the shutter and go downstairs. However, the only thing they can see is darkness, until someone suddenly turns on stage lights and fixes them onto the girls.

Finally Toko and Komaru realize that they have been trapped in the center of an arena full of Monokuma Kids, who are being happily overseen by the leader of the Warriors of Hope. This leader is the person in charge of the Hero Class, Masaru Daimon. He explains that he will banish all of the "demons" (adults) from Towa City to make a children-only paradise.

After that, Masaru opens the door below him and many corpses of adults appear. He states that they're the corpses of all the adults that he has killed. As the Monokuma Kids continue to cheer from around the arena, he begins to feel fear; something which he apparently never felt in any of his his previous "demon slaying sessions".

Seeing his left hand trembling, Masaru enters a state of panic, mixed with the resurfacing of his abusive past. He frantically chants to himself over and over that "heroes aren't afraid of anything," then proceeds to beat his own left arm for trembling in fear. Komaru tries to calm him down, but after he is finished panicking, with his arm completely blue with bruises, he only seems more determined to defeat the girls.

However, Toko and Komaru succeed in defeating him, which results in having the Monokuma Kids execute him. Komaru is shocked by this, but Toko remarks that it was too simple (since she was already experienced in witnessing horrific executions back at her school). The two leave, only to see another subway station has been opened. Upon noticing this, the two decide to enter, still hoping to find an exit from this town. Without their knowing, someone has been spying on them this whole time.

Chapter 2 - Legend of the 
Komaru and Toko entered the opened subway station only to found an unmoving train. Feeling down for a moment, Komaru finally decided to walk along the railway. Komaru could sense Toko worried about something, but she kept denying it and repeat herself that she was worried due to the dark. During their explore, an earthquake suddenly struck and made the ceiling collapse. Toko lost consciousness after a large rock hit her, and switched to Genocide Jack, who quickly dashed back to the entrance followed by Komaru. At very last second, Komaru and Jack managed to escaped the destroyed tunnel. Komaru questioned why Toko's personality suddenly changed, and Genocide Jack answered that losing consciousness and sneezing switch her personality state.

After Jack sneezed and switched to Toko again, Komaru became depressed, wondering if she couldn't really escape from Towa City. Just before Toko could rally Komaru again like she did after Yuta's death, two Monokuma Kids approached them with a television monitor. The monitor connected to the Warriors of Hope headquarters, and Jataro Kemuri, one of the Warriors of Hope, appeared on the screen. Jataro introduced himself to the girls before explaining that Komaru, having a wristband, can't leave the city because she is one of the Warriors of Hope's targets. He also explained that there's a limit within the game. Toko guessed that's why Yuta's wristband exploded when he tried to swim away from the island. Jataro replied that it wasn't the Warriors of Hope's fault, and that the wristband is made to explode when the wearer goes outside the town without permission.

Before he left, Jataro presented his masterpiece: a diorama featuring a giant Monokuma behind adults happily dancing together, with the hopes of making the girls hate him. Soon, however, the video changed to reveal the puppet master, a Monokuma, moving the adults' corpses with wire and giant bolts screwed through their wrists. As the television shut off, Komaru cried. Toko once again rallied Komaru to not lose her hope to survive, saying that she was with Komaru to fight beside her, and for her to rely on.

Komaru and Toko later decided to go the back the way they came. On the surface, they were surprised to see hundreds of Monokumas and Monokuma Kids dancing. For their safety, they retreated back down to the subway. Toko, forgetting that she is afraid of the dark, suggested to go back to the underground, to which Komaru agreed, thinking that Toko was showing her how to go forward despite being scared. Annoyed, Toko eventually had no choice, and the two of them traveled back to the underground.

Exploring the district deeper, the two girls then saw someone underneath a white sheet being kicked by Monokumas, crying and begging them to stop. After Komaru destroyed the Monokumas, she went to uncover the white sheet to check if that "someone" was okay. Komaru was surprised after discovering that the someone was a white Monokuma.

Just when Komaru and Toko speculated what and who he was, he then started to speak, surprising the two girls. Even though the bear confessed that he's not a suspicious bear, Toko ordered Komaru to shoot him. He was shocked and told them that he's different than the other Monokumas because he has an AI inside him, introducing himself as Shirokuma. Toko told Komaru to not be fooled by his cuteness, but was eventually fooled herself when he said that he wanted be friends with many pretty ladies. Shirokuma also confessed that he can tell the date and time of someone's first kiss, making Toko further fooled by him.

Once Toko calmed down from her "heated" imagination to uncover those "fraudulent career women's virginity", Shirokuma asked them why Komaru and Toko were in the city. Komaru answered that they had no place to go, so Shirokuma offered them a safe place to hide. Toko didn't trust Shirokuma, thinking he wanted to kidnap them. Shirokuma said that that the safe place is a secret base underground where adults are living in hiding. Komaru thought it a good idea to go there. Toko once again left with no other options, the girls follow Shirokuma to the adults's secret base.

After traveling for a while in the underground subway station, the group decided to take a short break. Toko, who still didn't trust Shirokuma, accused him of lying in wait for them earlier. Shirokuma admitted to this, but claimed that he watched them only so he could save them. Komaru asked Shirokuma why he wanted to save them, and he answered that he "just wants to save people." Komaru was amazed by Shirokuma's dedication and decided to keep relying on him as an ally, but Toko stayed suspicious. Shirokuma then led them down a hole with a ladder to the Towa City Sewers, where the secret base was.

Exploring the sewer, the group eventually found the ladder to the secret base. Shirokuma told the girls to follow him up the ladder, with Toko forcing Komaru to go first because she might die if Komaru saw her panties.

Komaru and Toko were surprised to see many adults in the secret base, which was an old warehouse used to store water tanks that the kids didn't know existed. Komaru questioned why there were so many trailers inside the base and Shirokuma answered that he brought them there to make it a little easier for everyone to live. He then let them meet with some of the other adults around the base before speaking with them further.

Komaru and Toko chatted with several adults until finally they met with a woman a bit different from the others. Komaru was surprised after the woman showed them her Monokuma wristband. The woman was glad to finally meet an "ally" and explained that there are plenty of Hit List Targets hiding throughout the city. If possible, she wanted to save them and bring them to the secret base. She explained that nobody but Shirokuma was allowed to go outside unless they could sneak out, commenting that she has adults sneak outside to bring her cigarettes. She introduced herself as Hiroko Hagakure. Toko, who knew that the women was related to one of her classmates, wondered if she was his older sister or maybe the mother. Hiroko quickly nicknamed the two girls "Koko" and "Fufu."

Shirokuma them invited them to the conference room. Inside, he saw no signs of the leader of the Resistance. Shirokuma wanted introduce him to Komaru and Toko. While they waited, Komaru and Toko read several notebooks inside the room's lockers. Then suddenly the door opened and Haiji Towa, the leader of the Resistance, showed up. Toko, who didn't expect the leader to be a "handsome" guy, quickly introduced herself, followed by Komaru. Komaru stepped in before Toko could ask him nonsense questions and instead asked Haiji if he was related to the Towa Group. Haiji replied that he is the son of Towa Group's chairman, and had lost everything: Towa Group, as well as the entirety of Towa City, because of the kids. Haiji commented that he doesn't know the full details of Towa City's current situation, as the only one who does know is his father who has been missing since the riots.

Komaru became depressed when she suddenly remembered her missing parents and asked Haiji if he knew how to escape the city. He told her that all of the roads to outside the city are completely blocked and Komaru's wristband would explode if she tried to escape. Komaru desperately asked if she could somehow get rid of the Monokuma wristband, but neither Haiji nor Shirokuma knew how. Haiji advised that staying put and keeping quiet is the best move. Toko questioned why the Resistance doesn't try to fight the kids, but Haiji insisted that it would be suicide if they tried. Toko called him a coward, but he claimed that he's only waiting for the opportunity to strike back. When Komaru felt that Toko's harshness had gone too far, Toko confessed that she was also speaking to Komaru and criticized her for only making excuses rather than fighting back.

Toko then guessed that maybe Future Foundation's technology could get rid of the wristband. When Toko revealed herself to be a member of Future Foundation, Haiji angrily ordered Toko and Komaru to get out of the secret base and refused to cooperate with them.

Toko and Komaru decided to leave the secret base, but as they did they saw adults screaming while they watched a monitor. Shirokuma diverted their attention, saying it would be best if they didn't watch, and offered them to stay the night as it wouldn't be safe for the girls to go out at dark. He then led them to a makeshift room, which was actually a prison cell.

Shirokuma asked Toko and Komaru if Future Foundation would really come and save the adults, to which they replied that it's impossible to reach them. Shirokuma then gave the girls a wireless laptop developed by Togami Group that can send audio and video, noting that it wasn't available to the public aside from groups like the police and Future Foundation, and the girls could use it if they got around the jamming radio waves emitted from Towa Hills be climbing to the top of a building called Towa Tower. Toko asked why Shirokuma didn't send other adults for the job if he already knew all this, but he explained they're the only ones he trusts can fight the Monokumas and safely reach Towa Tower. Komaru insisted on going, as she wanted to keep trying to survive and move forward. Toko reluctantly agreed and the two decided to get some rest for the night before heading out the next day. Komaru, who could finally see a ray of hope thanks to Shirokuma, hugged and surprised the white bear.

The next morning, feeling refreshed after a night's sleep, the two were seen off by Shirokuma. Now above ground, Komaru and Toko made their way along the river side shopping district and finally arrived in front of Towa Tower. As they tried going inside, Jataro revealed himself and ordered a large group of Monokumas to attack them from every direction. Once they defeated them, Toko cautioned Komaru that they should be wary of a second ambush by Jataro and that the whole situation could be a setup by Shirokuma.

Once inside, the two tried using the elevator, but it wouldn't open without a key card. Despite Toko's protest, the two defeated the Ball Monokuma blocking the stairs and climbed the tower on foot. On the fourth floor they met a man with glasses who confessed that while hiding from the kids he was trying to program a way on his laptop to remove his wristband. Upon Komaru showing she wore the same wristband, the man regrettably informed her that until they are removed neither of them can leave the city; Komaru denied this, saying they would contact Future Foundation from atop Towa Tower using their laptop's wireless communication. The man understood and offered to try programming around the elevator's card key function. Even though he didn't expect them to want his help as they can't trust someone they just met, the girls gladly accepted.

At the elevator, the man had barely begun hacking around the security system when Junk Monokumas appeared, forcing Komaru and Toko to cover him. Once finished, he thanked Komaru and Toko, saying that because of them he finally started to see a ray of hope and that given a good connection Future Foundation would surely save them. Unfortunately, when the elevator opened, a Beast Monokuma emerged and attacked the man. After the girls defeated the Beast Monokumas, the man apologized for not accompanying them further but assured them that they would be fine. On his dying breath, he told Komaru and Toko that he has a child around their age and his only regret was not being able to see her one last time. Komaru then found the man's handbook nearby, and inside discovered a picture of him and his child; she hoped that the child was all right, while Toko was silent due to knowing the child's fate and recommended they move forward.

The two then entered the elevator, but just before Toko wanted to talk with Komaru about Future Foundation, the elevator suddenly stopped. The girls forced the elevator's door open to find themselves in a dungeon where Jataro and the audience of Monokuma Kids waited for them. Toko asked Jataro why he wore his mask and told him to take it off, but Jataro refused, telling them that "if they look at his face, their eyeballs are gonna rot off" and asked aloud why else his mother forced him to wear the mask everyday unless he was ugly. Komaru replied angrily that the kids' doing is unforgivable, no matter their reasons. The Monokuma Kids then boo at Jataro, making him more ecstatic due to being hated by even them. He summoned his robot, saying the only one who liked him was "Big Sis Junko." Komaru and Toko defeat Jataro's Priest robot, which destroys itself with a misfired final homing bomb shot, causing the Momokuma Kids to pull off Jataro's mask and 'punish' him.

Feeling no remorse for Jataro, Komaru told Toko to go with her. Toko tried to warn Komaru about Future Foundation one final time but but forgot what she was going to say, instead proceeding to enter the code on the laptop so Komaru can speak with Future Foundation. It seemed unable to connect, but just as Toko said they should give up, Makoto Naegi from Future Foundation 14th Division appeared on the screen.

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's 
Makoto explained that he joined the Future Foundation and also reveals that Toko went to rescue Byakuya without orders from Future Foundation. Komaru realized that Makoto and Toko already knew each other and wondered why Toko didn't tell her, to which Makoto responded "that's Toko for you." Toko then told Makoto that Byakuya had been captured by the kids, which led Makoto to explain that he, Toko, and Byakuya survived after being trapped inside Hope's Peak Academy with their classmates and were forced to kill each other. The mastermind broadcasted the Killing Game so she could show the world the students of Hope's Peak Academy, the symbols of hope, falling to despair and death, thus furthering The Tragedy. The survivors resolved to join Future Foundation and fight against the Remnants of Despair, who were trying to spread despair to the entire world. Toko suddenly cried after remembering the suffering of The Tragedy, while Komaru commented that she had no idea any of that happened due to her imprisonment.

Komaru begged for Makoto to remove her wristband and save her, but Toko interjected, saying that she would refuse to let this happen as it would put Master Byakuya in danger. She went as far as threatening to kill Komaru, but by this point, the wireless connection had cut off. Having found the girls, the Monokuma Kids shuttered the windows and plunged the top floor into pure darkness. Luckily a Monokuma Kid dropped a glow stick and tracked paint across the floor, leading Komaru and Toko to an emergency staircase. This was a trap, however, as the door exploded and briefly knocked the girls unconscious. Once they both awakened, Komaru shot a Bomber Monokuma, destroying a cracked window allowing them to escape to Towa Tower's second floor via ladder. They then cleared a handful more of Monokuma Kid challenges before finally exiting Towa Tower. Once outside, Komaru asked Toko whether she was serious about killing her, to which Toko responded that she was certainly willing to kill a friend if it meant Byakuya's safety. This led to a short-term rift in the twos' friendship but they ultimately returned to the adults' secret base together, with Toko tailing Komaru for her own "reason."

Upon their arrival at the secret base, the girls were greeted by adults giving them the cold shoulder. Shirokuma then appeared and brought them to the conference room to speak with Haiji, who brought up a plan to reason with the kids, which was immediately refused by the other adults. Komaru tried to support his idea but Toko reminded them that the children had no mercy whatsoever. In response, Haiji further insisted to lie in wait for a better opportunity to strike. Toko once again accused Haiji of being a weak leader, but Komaru sided with him, arguing that Toko did not understand the feelings of the weak.

Before the situation escalated further, an adult broke in the conference room and announced that Monokumas had found their base and were already massacring adults. In response to Shirokuma's plea, Toko and Komaru succeed expelling a large group of Monokumas from the base. Despite their efforts, however, Haiji had the two girls imprisoned as he believed they led the Monokumas back to the base to begin with.

After Komaru kidnapped by Kotoko, Toko decided to save her and infiltrated Kotoko's personal train. She finally encountered the fighter and while speaking to her, Toko used Kotoko's trigger word "gentle," causing her to lose her composure and call on her robot to fight the two girls. Upon the robot's defeat, the Monokuma Kids attempted to 'punish' Kotoko for losing, but Genocide Jack was instead able to save her for interrogation purposes.

Suddenly, Nagisa appeared and requested that Toko and Komaru leave the city. Already prepared to persuade Monaca, Nagisa insisted upon letting them escape in order for the Warriors of Hope's Children's Paradise to succeed.

Chapter 4 - The Way We 
Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair 
Epilogue - The Changing World We 
After defeating Big Bang Monokuma, the two girls obtained the keys to the storeroom that imprisoned Byakuya. They ended up having an argument right outside the storeroom because of Komaru's wish to try to save both the enraged adults and the brainwashed children; Toko was extremely frustrated that after Komaru had so desperately wanted to get out of Towa City, she ended up wanting to protect the denizens of Towa City.

After freeing Byakuya from captivity, Toko decided to remain behind in Towa City with Komaru instead of going back to the Future Foundation, mainly for Komaru's sake as a friend, but also in order to cover for Byakuya's escape and to stay the Future Foundation's hands on the city, preventing them from discovering the dark secrets of the Towa Group.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Toko doesn't appear in this game, having remained in Towa city with Komaru after the events of Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls. Kyoko mentioned her, telling Byakuya that someone is waiting for him to return. Byakuya then told her not to remind him of "something so horrifying".

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 06 - No Man is an Island 
Komaru is trying to force Toko to take a bath when they got a call from Byakuya, who presumably informed them of Monaca's involvement in the Final Killing Game that was taking place at the Future Foundation's headquarters. Toko got her taser ready as Komaru grabbed her Megaphone Hacking Gun to hunt down Monaca who is hiding somewhere in Towa City.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair 
Toko is running alongside Komaru as they battle through Monokuma's and make their way to Monaca's base. Toko got tired of running, and used her taser to turn into Genocide Jack, attacking some Monokumas. She turned back into Toko after they clear away the Monokumas.

As they make their way to Monaca's base, they encountered more Monokumas. Toko said she can't lose this battle as Byakuya wanted her help. Toko then has a fantasy about her and Byakuya being together with eighteenth sons and a "mini-Komaru" that is Toko's friend and servant. Byakuya insults mini-Komaru, and says that Toko is more beautiful. As the two of them reached Monaca's surprisingly "stood out" hideout, Toko turned back into Genocide Jack to fight Monokumas, but they are overpowered, and escape into a room with a bunch of robots. The lights turn on, and a giant curtain reveals a large tv screen that Monaca appears on. Monaca welcomed them, and the robots turned on and move. Monaca talked about how she will destroy everyone's hope. Toko said she did behind everything, and Monaca declared herself as "Junko Enoshima II", and that she will bring Makoto to despair. Toko pushed Komaru out of the way as one of the robots fires a rocket. The robots close in on Toko and Komaru, and Monaca suddenly says she surrendered, declaring hope will win, and detonated the robots, blowing up the top half of her fortress.

Toko and Komaru saw a van and see that Monaca is in it. Toko asked if Monaca wanted to be the Ultimate Despair. Monaca answered that she found the whole hope and despair thing embarrassing, and wants to forget it. Toko demand she tell them everything. Toko and Komaru learned that Monaca wasn't the mastermind, killed the real Miaya Gekkogahara, and knew that a survivor from the Killing School Life might die because of Makoto. Monaca said she knows who, but refuse to tell them. Toko turned into Genocide Jack, but Monaca escapes. Toko and Komaru take control of the fake Miaya Gekkogahara to tell Makoto. Toko contacts Byakuya and also tells him what Monaca said.

Episode 08 - Who Killed Cock Robin 
After contacting Byakuya, Toko joins Komaru, who is currently talking to Makoto. Hearing Komaru support her brother, Toko comments that all their brother-sister talk was giving her goosebumps.

Episode 12 - It is Always Darkest 
Toko and Komaru are seen watching Ryota Mitarai's hope brainwashing video on their laptop back at the hotel.

Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Several months after the Final Killing Game, Makoto became the principal of a newly built Hope's Peak Academy and is working alongside Kyoko. Toko and Aoi both helped move boxes of materials, although Toko became exhausted. Komaru offered each of them a drink, Toko responded in thanks and began to drink swiftly.


First Kiss Prank: Toko is thrown into complete darkness. In the distance, Byakuya can be seen, so she begins to run towards him. Suddenly, a huge roller appears between the two of them. Though Toko tries desperately to escape, the roller catches up with her and presses her paper-thin, killing her. This execution is only described in the Danganronpa Visual Fanbook.


Alternate Identities:
Genocide 
Toko dislikes Jack because they share the same body, and she could be accused for Jack's murderous actions. She blames Jack for her isolation from her peers and their uncleanness. She will do anything to keep Jack concealed to prevent her from getting out and killing people. The two share certain traits, such as their obsession with Byakuya and dislike of Yasuhiro and Aoi.

Family:

Kameko was Toko's pet stink bug, and was the one she cared about most, which is shown when she became her Captive. Toko was also the only one who could stand Kameko's stench.

When Kameko's "Hit List" entry is discussed with Hiroko, Toko gets unusually emotional, showing just how strongly she cared for the bug. She is offended when Kameko is called a bug and she calls Kameko her dear insect friend, "a friendsect". She believes that Kameko is a special insect that can understand her feelings, but Hiroko and Komaru make her realize that Kameko is just a normal bug. Nevertheless, Toko misses her pet dearly and wishes to see her again.

Partners:
Komaru 
Toko appears and helps Komaru through the Demon Hunting game. She constantly calls her "Omaru" instead of her real name. During an interview with the crew behind Danganronpa Another Episode, Kodaka states that the game is about "the deepening friendship between Komaru and Toko."

Komaru respects Toko and admires her as a strong, skilled and amazing person, and doesn't even seem to mind her serial killer split personality as she considers her "just a bit strange, that's all", though Toko strongly disagrees and says that she is nothing like that. At first, Toko finds Komaru and her occasional slow-wittedness and gullible nature irritating, along with her tendency to call herself "normal girl" and breaking down crying when things get bad. However, she also gives Komaru support and encourages her to improve during such tough situations. When Toko "officially" agrees to assist Komaru, she hugs Toko in happiness, which makes Toko uncomfortable due to her not being used to physical contact. Toko is also noted to make most of the decisions, due to Komaru being too unsure to do that. She also remains rather silent about many topics, even if she is actually familiar with them. She is also strongly annoyed by Komaru's love for manga, because she hates them.

In Chapter 2, Toko is shown to be suspicious of Shirokuma and appears slightly protective of Komaru due to her gullible nature. After they enter the Resistance's secret base, Toko and Komaru sleep the night in the same bed, though Toko feels cold because Komaru stole her blanket while sleeping. Komaru agrees to assist Shirokuma and the Resistance with newfound confidence, surprising Toko and making her uncomfortable, because she does not want to contact the Future Foundation.

Later, when the two manage to contact Makoto in Chapter 3, Toko even threatens Komaru's life in order to protect Byakuya who is currently the enemy's hostage. After getting out of the building and the danger, the two have a big argument over this, as Toko claims she is serious about her threat if needed. Komaru is shocked that Toko would kill her friends, but Toko just seems to assume that Komaru is only trying to manipulate her with nice words such as "friends". Saddened, Komaru tries to tell Toko that she truly does trust her, and Toko appears to feel slightly bad but stays silent. When Toko accuses Komaru of doing nothing on her own, but Komaru thinks that is way too mean to say, because she has done some things too. Toko asks if Komaru is expecting her to thank her or something and claims she has never done that to anyone. In the heat of the moment, Komaru shouts that is the reason why Toko doesn't have any friends. Toko is shocked and hurt by this, and then tries to claim that she wants to be alone and would rather die alone than be with a coward like Komaru. However, she still continues to follow Komaru to the Resistance's base, claiming that she has to. However, the two remain mostly silent during the whole way back.

When Toko accuses Haiji of cowardice back in the Resistance, Komaru surprisingly speaks back to her, sympathizing with the Resistance's weak people. This seems to shock Toko a bit, as she assumed Komaru would be on her side. Komaru accuses Toko of not understanding the weak and blaming them for it, but Toko says that she simply blames them for using their weakness as an excuse. Toko is angered and offended when Komaru says that she doesn't understand weak people, stating that she is obviously very weak too, but has stopped using it as an excuse and tries to survive. A bit later, after Genocide Jack saves Komaru from Kotoko, Komaru breaks down crying and apologizes for saying horrible things like that Toko doesn't have any friends. The two then make up and work together again.

In Chapter 4, after Nagisa decides to help the two escape, Toko hesitantly seems to be willing to let Komaru go and leave the city. However, the Servant appears and it's revealed that Toko was forced to assist Komaru and bring her to the children's base, so that she can be exchanged with Byakuya. Komaru is shocked to hear that Toko has lied to her the whole time, with Toko obviously feeling very guilty. However, she then continues to speak mean words and even attacks Komaru with the aid of Genocide Jack, but Komaru realizes she isn't being serious and wants to give Komaru a chance to escape and make her own decision. Genocide Jack and Toko then decide to turn against the Servant, claiming that they wish to protect Komaru and Byakuya. In turn, Komaru decides not to hold the supposed betrayal against Toko, as she was forced to do it, and decides to stay with Toko because they are friends. Toko is immensely happy by this and blushes shyly, because she has never had a real friend before. Afterwards, she thanks Komaru very genuinely for the first time and begins to call her Komaru instead of the somewhat insulting nickname Omaru. After this, the two become real friends, with Komaru trying to teach Toko about friendship, with the two still a bit comically bickering at times. Toko begins to be more nice towards Komaru and genuinely considers her an extremely important person to her, rivaling her love for Byakuya. In Chapter 5, Toko has also shyly claimed while blushing that Komaru has made her happy and it's indicated that Komaru has helped Toko's mental state greatly.

In Chapter 5, Toko snaps Komaru out of it in the time of despair, and swears to help Komaru whenever she can't do something on her own just like Komaru would do for her. Toko gives Komaru a very warm, genuine smile and hugs her, which is extremely notable coming from Toko who normally hates hugs and being touched. After defeating Monaca and rescuing Byakuya, the two stay in Towa City to help its people and wait for Makoto. They also keep sleeping in the same bed, though Toko claims that she does that only because of her fear of ghosts.

Komaru and Toko are seen still together in Towa City in Danganronpa 3, with Komaru somewhat unsuccessfully trying to get Toko used to bathing which she fears. They have a mission to defeat Monaca, but it ends in Monaca's surrender and Komaru saving the two of them from falling. Many months later, they are seen building the new Hope's Peak Academy building along with everyone, and Toko gives a very genuine happy smile when Komaru offers her a drink after the hard work.

Komaru is mentioned by Toko in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, when she has to pick her "best friend" for scavenger hunt during Summer's sport festival, and she laments that she can't pick someone who's not there. She then decides to pick Makoto, because their "surnames match", indicating that Komaru is her best friend in this alternative universe as well and that they just obviously don't go to the same school. However, this is translated incorrectly in the official English version, with Toko inaccurately stating she has no best friend and with no mention of the matching surnames.

Class 78th:
Byakuya 
Toko has a one way obsession with Byakuya. Byakuya does not reciprocate her feelings and is annoyed by her behavior. He often commands Toko to do a variety of tasks, which she blindly carries out. She entrusted her secret of Genocide Jack with Byakuya, who traitorously revealed her secret to the rest of the students during the school trial for Chihiro's murder. Despite this, she remained madly in love with him. She defends him if she feels that anyone is insulting him, even when that is obviously not the case.

Even after Byakuya becomes slightly nicer after the Killing School Life, he continues to treat Toko harshly, as she continues to give him unwanted attention. Toko begins to visualize Byakuya being shirtless and imagines her fantasy of being with him as a couple which Byakuya sensed it and feels grossed out. However, he is grateful after she and Komaru rescued him in Another Episode and trusts them to defeat Monaca in Danganronpa 3.

In the Danganronpa V3 bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, her attraction to him is so psychotic, she, very openly, stated that was turned on by the thought of being his doormat.

Aoi 
Toko would usually direct cruel remarks toward Aoi, calling her "stupid swimmer" and "brainless mermaid". Toko was very furious when Aoi slapped Byakuya and began to argue with her the next day about Sakura. She also made many sexual and degrading jabs about her appearance. In spite of this, when her younger brother Yuta dies, Toko is reluctant to deliver the bad news to Aoi, for fear of upsetting her.

Yasuhiro 
Toko considers Yasuhiro an idiot, calling him names like "shitty occult fortunetelling bastard" and "occult idiot". Toko is somewhat jealous that Yasuhiro and Aoi became full members of the Future Foundation before her.

Makoto 
A fellow survivor of the Killing School Life. Toko dislikes Makoto, openly expressing her disapproval of him to Komaru. She accuses him of boasting about his title (Ultimate Hope) which Makoto continually denies. However, Toko sometimes thinks of Makoto as reliable.

Hifumi 
Hifumi appears to think his writing is better than Toko's, making her feel insulted. The two are competitive and often argue over whose writing is better.

Kyoko 
Fellow survivor of the Killing School Life and member of the Future Foundation. Unlike the other survivors of the killing game Toko and Kyoko have no notable opinion of each other.

Warriors of Hope:
Kotoko 
Originally enemies, Genocide Jack saves Kotoko from the hands of the Monokuma kids. During their confrontation with Monaca, Kotoko defends Toko from Haiji, who was attacking her.

Towa City Residents:

Toko first finds Shirokuma after saving him from other Monokuma Units. When she first saw Shirokuma she thought he was just like all the other Monokumas. Toko doesn't seem to trust Shirokuma very much due to him being a Monokuma Unit. Shirokuma is very kind to her and always tries to be gentle and help her. Despite being very nice to her, she is very mean to Shirokuma calling him by names and treating him like all the other Monokumas. She gets carried away when ever Shirokuma says something that she is interested about.

Hiroko 
Hiroko and Toko appear to be friends to some extent, Hiroko calling Toko "Fufu" ("Fukawachi" in the Japanese version). Unlike with Komaru, Hiroko uses her last name; when Toko asks for an explanation, Hiroko brushes it off by saying that either name works.

Yuta 
Toko travels with Yuta for a short time. Noticing that he shared the same surname as Aoi, Toko was able to quickly identify him as Aoi's younger brother, and makes jabs at him that were similar to the ones she made of Aoi. However, Toko appears worried about Yuta while he is swimming past the limits, watching him fearfully.

Haiji 
Toko faked a sexual attraction to Haiji, hoping her "female charm" would convince him to disclose more information about the Warriors of Hope and the situation in Towa City, though it's also implied that it may have been partially genuine. However, she soon found out that he's a coward and was openly disrespectful towards him, calling him "a mole man" for hiding underground. After Komaru mentioned her intentions to contact Future Foundations and noted that Toko was a member, Haiji immediately became sour towards Komaru and Toko.

At one point, Haiji mentioned that he doesn't have sexual interest in Toko, as she isn't his type (she is older and "noisy"). After this information was revealed, Toko suspects that Haiji might try to harass Komaru and is protective of her.

The two continue to nag at each other thorough the later game, with Haiji always referring to Toko as "Four Eyes" and often appearing willing to ignore or even leave her behind. He later physically attacks Toko and threatens to hurt her more in order to get the Monokumas' controller.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Toko Fukawa & School Mode/Toko Fukawa
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Toko in order to learn more about her. If he gives Toko a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Toko will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Toko's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

1Chap. 223456
Toko Fukawa Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Young adult	Non-fiction	Romance
A scenic drive	Window shopping	A movie
Bildungsroman	I-Don't-Know	I-Novel
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 17 Everlasting Bracelet DR1 Present 25 Glasses DR1 Present 46 Rose in Vitro DR1 Present 47 Cherry Blossom Bouquet DR1 Present 59 Old Antique Doll DR1 Present 71 Maiden's Handbag DR1 Present 84 Novelist's Fountain Pen


Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Toko grants the following skills:

Vocabulary	Increases damage when a statement is destroyed.
Effective during the Bullet Time Battle.	3 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Toko FukawaMakoto is able to see inside Toko's dorm room during Free Time events. Her room is covered in huge stacks of books. She has covered her bolted windows with pages of her manuscripts. She has two vases of flowers and a flower shaped doily on her table.

DR1ExtraDRAEDR3
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"N-Not that you'll remember my n-name anyway, but... I'm T-Toko... Toko Fukawa."
"Wh-What? I-It's not polite to stare, you know. Stop staring at me like I'm some filthy creature!"
"I-I know what you "just" thought...! You just thought you've n-never seen such an ugly woman. You just th-thought it was sooo funny...!"
"Don't bother trying to l-lie to me! I know it's true. Otherwise, you... I know you can't stand looking at me! Wh-Whatever, I don't really care. I'm used to it..."
Chapter 1:

"Your mind is as th-thin as your body. You m-make me sick to my s-stomach..."
"Haven't you b-been listening!? Looking around was a t-total waste of t-time! We d-din't find a way out, didn't f-find out who's behind this. We still have no idea what's g-going on!"
"Me hanging ouut w-with two people who have muscles where th-their brains should be is not by ch-choice!"
"S-Stop trying to drag me farther into y-your meat dimension!"
"Everyone says they'll work together, but in our hearts we're all afraid someone might betray us..."
"I h-hate romantic comedies like this. I don't care what h-happens to her, personally..."
"Wh-What? Is it s-so awful to be l-late?"
"Being s-so insistent, even though you obviously k-killed her... Very i-impressive..."
"Why d-do you say that? Is it b-because you think I'm u-ugly...?"
"P-Plus...she *was* the Ultimate Pop Sensation... A t-toally forgettable kid, o-or a national superstar... Who are you m-more likely to believe?"
"Of course we can't cut f-free of the outside world! Being trapped in this insane p-place...!"
Chapter 2:

"Plus, most "fanfic" is j-just porn drawn by a bunch of a-amateurs..."
"And w-with a face like yours, anyone can tell n-nothing you do is worthwhile."
"Stop trying to one-up e-everyone..." (to Kiyotaka)
"S-Something might've happened, right? Being alone r-right now might not be safe... As long as I'm w-with the sports idiot... ...if something d-does happen, I'm sure she'd jump in without th-thinking and take the fall..."
"Well, it's n-not like anyone would care even if I w-was gone, right...? Actually, I bet you all *w-want* me gone! You all think I'm d-disgusting! You think I d-don't know, but I do... You want me g-gone! And I'm s-sure...the rest of you want the same th-thing, don't you!?"
"W-Well I already know I'm annoying. I came here kn-knowing that, so...that makes it o-okay..."
"Hey, um...Byakuya? Remember how you said, "Don't be a woman who dominates w-weak men. Be a woman dominated by a s-strong man"?"
"That's t-true. There's really no w-way to know... But the distance between u-us doesn't change our love...! Because as soon as you realize your feelings, the love is born. That's h-how love works! There m-might come a day when y-you understand. Maybe. S-Someday."
"The world has a front and a back, a top inning and a bottom, a sea of truth and a web of lies!"
"I...! I won't let Genocide Jack have control ever again!"
"Don't go assigning adjectives to my t-tone without permission..." (to Kiyotaka)
Chapter 3:

"Why does e-everyone keep making fun of me...? I hope you all win the l-lottery and get hit by a b-bus..."
"How rude... A maggot like you has no right to speak that way to our heaven-sent Master...!"
Chapter 4:

"If it's wh-what Master wants, I'd do anything h-he asks."
"Byakuya said he...l-likes a girl to have some meat o-on her bones, so... I'm g-gonna start eating! I'm gonna force it d-down into my stomach! I'm gonna eat till I d-drop!"
"Ah! It's a-amazing! Indecent ideas are c-coming to me one after another!"
"Sorry sorry sorry sorry! Don't hit me don't hit me don't hit me don't hit me! If you w-wanna hit someone, hit Master. Please h-hit him. Oh, please *please* let me w-watch you hit him!"
"Wh-Wh-Wh-Why are you all ganging up on me! You're all nothing but v-v-v-vermin!"
Chapter 5:

"I'll follow you a-anywhere, Master! To all ends of the E-Earth!"
"Oh. Then...I don't mind b-breathing in the carbon dioxide you exhale. That's enough for m-me to live..."
"Master told you h-he trusts you? MASTER t-told you that! Well d-don't let it go to your head!"
"Now do you u-understand, you useless insect!? You're banned from t-talking to Master ever again!"
"Master's g-going around all this stuff... It's like an all-you-can-watch buffet..."
"Y-YOU'RE weird...! Weird in every p-possible. And not j-just weird... Super weird!"
"If you're l-lying, you'll die a cruel and unusual d-death...!"
"Usually, when there's a s-scene where an important character dies, it has a lot m-more detail..." (About Mukuro)
"By d-denying the sprinkler....are you trying to deny my e-entire existence!?"
"I'd love to s-scoop out that nasty brain of yours, throw it on the g-ground, and spit on it!"
"Talking back to Master... You have no r-right!"
"It's similar to Aesop's fable about the bundle of sticks... One stick is weak, but put them together, and they become strong. It's meant to teach cooperation."
Chapter 6:

"Ugh, you s-stink...! Are you rotten!? Rotten ph-physically, mentally, every way you can b-be rotten!"
"Without Master, the r-rest of you are like... ...coffee with cream w-without the cream! Or c-coffee! You're totally useless!"
"Am I so d-disgusting you want me out of y-your sight?"
"I don't want that! I'm sick of a-always being looked down! Why w-won't anyone accept me...?"
"I'm not weird, okay!? At least l-listen to what I have to say b-before you deny me!"
"It's not like y-you're an endangered species or somethinG! How l-long do you plan to keep hiding?"
"Yeah! Master's way more p-perfect! Cuz on top of everything else, he's got that n-noble blood!" (To Junko)
"Are y-you telling me to swap places...w-with HER!? N-No! Absolutely not! That'd be like f-forfeiting my entire identity!"
Epilogue:

"I-I'll go with you! I'll follow you anywhere you w-want to go!"
"I d-don't know why, but...I have a b-burning desire to start writing...! I might b-be able to pull it off... A story about M-Master and me! A-And the others, I guess..."
Bullet Time Battle:

"It's a l-lie!"
"I admit n-nothing!"
"I h-hate you!"
"I curse you!"
"Shut up...!"
"N-No no no!"
"I d-don't know anything!"
"That's en-nough!"
"A-are you trying to blame me?!"
"I'm r-right about this!"
"Hold on...!"
"Hiding i-in the rec room? Don't be r-r-ridiculous!" (Final Argument, Fourth trial)
"H-how can you say it wasn't the s-sprinkler?!" (Final Argument, Fifth trial)
Creation and 
Toko Fukawa Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
According to the series' creator, Kazutaka Kodaka, Toko represents the games' worldview the most.
Probably the character most different from the first impression players get, she's based on the literary girl the creators had since the first planning stages, who turned into such an intense character in the end.

Together with Genocide Jack, she has the most facial expressions in the first game. The process for deciding on facial expressions in the game involved first making rough designs for expressions requested by Kodaka, and then, after reading the actual script, adding more expressions in case there aren't enough. There isn't a single character who ended up with less expressions than was originally requested. "In other words, I just ignored the project's schedule by adding more expressions for every character", the character designer Rui Komatsuzaki states, "I felt the pressure most in Toko's case - she had a lot of expressions to begin with but I still thought there weren't enough".

Toko is Rui Komatsuzaki's favorite character in the first game.


Toko's last name (腐川 Fukawa) consists of the characters for "rotten" and "river". 腐 fu is also the first character in the word Fujoshi (腐女子; a girl who enjoys reading manga featuring male homoerotic relationships), a term Genocide Jack used to describe herself.
"Toko" (冬子) consists of 冬 - "winter" and 子 - "child".
Toko's birthday, March 3, coincides with Japan's Girl's Day.
Toko suffers from a pathological fear of the dark, blood, and ghosts.
Toko had one father and two mothers that she lived with before the events of the first game.
It can be assumed about Toko's two mothers that one is Japanese while the other might be from a western country. Evidence of that can be found during School Mode: when asking Toko about which breakfast she prefers, "Japanese or western", she'll mention one of her mothers liked Japanese while the other liked Western.
The most common cause for Dissociative identity disorder (abbreviated 'DID') is severe psychological trauma or stress experienced during early childhood.
The reason for her fear of the dark, which she reveals to Komaru in the Ultra Despair Girls, strongly insinuates she was maltreated as a child.
In one of her free time events, she made a reference to a famous Japanese filmmaker, Seijun Suzuki and his three masterpieces: Tokyo Drifter, Fighting Elegy and Branded to Kill.
It is implied that Toko does not take showers often. In Danganronpa 3, she even appears to be afraid of bathing. Her pet stink bug obviously doesn't help the matter.
It's revealed during Toko's free time events that after Makoto suggested to her to write a novel "from her heart", she immediately finished it as an I-Novel. According to Makoto, Toko's I-Novel is the best writing he has ever read, and it will be a shocking masterpiece because of its super dark story that will change the face of I-Novel.
04-22
Toko in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent.

In Danganronpa Another Episode, Toko's "terrified" sprite is surprisingly similar to that of Kazuichi Soda from Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair.
Toko is the only character so far to be a major character in two games.
Toko appears as a guest character in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent. Her Max ATK is 7240 while her Max HP is 5740. Her weapon is "the fountain pen of the literary master" and its ability is doubled attack power. Her deathblow is called "Delusion Dream". It recovers the allies' HP a bit and cures debilitating conditions.
Toko is the only surviving member of the Killing School Life not to be granted full membership to the Future Foundation and is instead an intern (研究生 Research Student)

Yasuhiro is around 22 years old, though he believed himself to be 20 in the first game because of the memory loss. By the end of Danganronpa 3, he is a few years older, around 24 at least.

He has dark brown extravagant hairstyle, spiky and large dreadlocks. He wears three layers of shirts, the top one being an old green uniform jacket, the second one being a white rough shirt, and his third layer is a small yellow short sleeve shirt. He wears a brown haramaki and uses a yellow rope as his belt.

Also, according to one of Yasuhiro's free time events, Yasuhiro has a mysterious scar on his back. He is the oldest student in the 78th class of Hope's Peak Academy.


Yasuhiro's normal outfit.
Hagakure Danganronpa3 fullbody
Yasuhiro's Future Foundation attire.


Yasuhiro is one of the more cheery, laid-back students, though a bit odd as well. However, he is generally not well-liked and he himself has openly admitted that he has no friends, being quite cowardly, lazy, slow-witted and having a habit to act selfishly. Notably, he is mentioned to be very clumsy with money and he has constant problems with massive debts. This trait is especially apparent when he stated that he bought his crystal ball (which is made of glass instead of real crystal) at the price of 100 million yen due to it being used by Napoleon, Genghis Khan, and George Washington in the past. He has also bought multiple items related to fortune-telling, despite not actually having any use for them. He tends to talk absurdly about subjects such as conspiracy theories and the one time aliens stole his hamburger. However, he really hates it if someone compares his fortune-telling to the occult, frequently insisting that they are not the same. He is also afraid of ghosts and would freak out if such a subject comes up in a conversation. Whenever he "senses" one, he swiftly recites a chant, casts a spell or begs for help from a hero, a god or a famous person (often random, even multiple ones). Even furthermore, he is stated to be absolutely horrible with women and has a bad hygiene, claiming that he washes his hair once a season.

Yasuhiro is quite gullible, and at first acts laid-back about the killing game, thinking it's some sort of a prank. However, after realizing it is real, he turns much more panicky and he is generally considered useless by the other students. However, he does treat his fellow classmates with general friendliness, going so far as to add the suffix "-chi", an affectionate term for dear friends in Japanese, to the end of everyone's first name (except for Sakura Ogami, whom he is afraid of and just calls with the insulting nickname "Ogre"). In English translations, he tends to call other people "dude".

Yasuhiro has quite a personality of a dirty coward, and he often attempts to trick other people in order to get rid of his own massive debts, and charges his readings at incredibly high prices that according to other people often do not fit the accuracy of his fortune-telling. He also seems to possess a more smarter, cunning side despite often appearing very slow-witted. During his Free Time Events, he tries to get Makoto to donate his organs so he could pay off a debt without having to dip into his own savings and thus he himself could retire in comfort, causing even Makoto to feel that he cannot let his guard down around Yasuhiro. In Chapter 4, he admits that he has no problem hitting girls who can't fight back, and tried to frame Toko for the supposed murder while believing he was the one who had killed Sakura. Though, him hitting Sakura was mostly due to quickly acting out on emotion as a self-defense, and in the end he does take accountability for his actions and accept the consequences that may come with them. After joining Future Foundation and going on a mission in Towa City, he pretended to be sick in order to run away on his own, all of it just so he could steal valuable items from the area.

Despite his many negative points, Yasuhiro does possess a good side. In Ultra Despair Hagakure, he finally tries to become more of a hero and helps Kanon Nakajima, occasionally acting very selfless and even saving her life, though still retaining some of his greedy and selfish nature. He is also stated to genuinely love and cares about his mother very much. In Danganronpa 3, he appears slightly braver and shows concern for his friends when they are in trouble, generally feeling more genuine comradeship towards them than before. He manages to survive on his own for quite a while outside the building while being chased by helicopters and in the end he runs to protect Makoto from brainwashed, armed men despite not having any weapons of his own (though, he was followed by Byakuya and his men). It's also very notable that while he acts very much like a con artist, he does possess actual supernatural abilities, as he really is capable of seeing visions of possible futures (still, it's unknown whether or not he can actually sense ghosts like he claims). He also has a strange tendency to survive from tough situations against all odds. As a somewhat hidden side, he also displays amazing self-trained penmanship and a working knowledge of electronics (by leading the dismantling of Monokuma and rewiring an antennae to pick up television signals from the outside world).


Ultimate 
Danganronpa 1 Yasuhiro Hagakure English Game IntroductionAs the Ultimate Clairvoyant, Yasuhiro is supposed to have amazing clairvoyance powers. Despite this, Yasuhiro's powers are very weak and only have a 30% success rate. Though considering the low success rates of fortune tellers, 30% really is not bad.
Interestingly, while often appearing ambiguous, Yasuhiro really does possess real supernatural future-telling skills, though not completely accurate. In Ultra Despair Hagakure, it's explained that he can see what appears to be rather detailed visions of possible future events, though they do not usually come true. At the beginning of Chapter 4 in the first game, Yasuhiro predicts that Kiyotaka's and Hifumi's deaths were the final murders committed during the Killing School Life, which turns out to be true as the remaining deaths were self-inflicted. He also predicts that he and Makoto's children will share the same mother. This is true in the bad ending as Aoi is the mother of both of their children.

In Future Arc #06, he predicted that everything would have a happy ending. Despite several deaths occurring before and after his prediction, he was correct with how the survivors including Class 77-B ended up having a happy ending in Side: Hope.

In other 
Yasuhiro's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc, Danganronpa: The Animation, and Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Language	Talent	Translation
日本語 Japanese	超高校級の「占い師」	Super High School Level Fortune Teller
‪中文(台灣)‬ Chinese (Trad)	超高校級的"占卜師"	Super High School Level Divinator	*
中文 Chinese (Simp)	超高校级的"占卜师"	Super High School Level Divinator	*
Français French	Le Voyant Ultime	Ultimate Clairvoyant	*
Deutsch German	Super-Wahrsager	Super Fortune Teller	*
Italiano Italian	Super Chiaroveggente Liceale	Super High School Level Clairvoyant	*
Español Spanish	Super Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Chamán	Super High School Student Level: Shaman	*

Prior to the 
Yasuhiro lived alone with his mother, Hiroko Hagakure, who loves him dearly despite his many flaws. Very little is known about his father, though his father apparently lived with them at some point, as Yasuhiro once mentioned their house burning down because his father fell asleep with a burning cigarette. According to his mother, there were some sort of trouble between them because she did something and let it go on too long, causing them to break up. Yasuhiro himself had several problems with women and money, and he also repeated middle and high school about four times. He used to attend Kiiwatetsu Commerce High School.

Yasuhiro saved up a small fortune by offering his services as a Fortune Teller. Whilst his predictions rate alone netted him on most clients, it is also implied that he scammed much more. He claims to have spent the money on rare artifacts of mystical origins, such as a 100-million-yen crystal ball that was allegedly owned by Napoleon Bonaparte and George Washington. These were invariably proved to be forgeries.

After attempting to "squeeze money out of" a wealthy female client, Yasuhiro became the target of his mafia connections; in Danganronpa IF, it was revealed that the extorted female client was from the Kuzuryu Clan (presumably Natsumi Kuzuryu) and that Yasuhiro had apparently abortively attempted to sell Makoto's organs to them. Unwilling to pay off his debts by either selling his collections or digging into his savings, Yasuhiro went into hiding for three years before taking shelter at Hope's Peak Academy. He then attended the Academy as the Ultimate Clairvoyant.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
As the Tragedy begin, Yasuhiro and his classmates agree with Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of the Academy's proposal to sell the old school building. He is seen chatting with Byakuya and Toko.

During the 
One year later, the Tragedy occurred. During the Tragedy, Jin planned to seal the school building and let the students live forever inside the Academy in order to protect them from the destruction. His plan was agreed by the class, and they sealed the building together and lived peacefully inside it for a year without knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.

The true Ultimate Despair took away the Class 78th's school memories so they could participate in the school life of mutual killing.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy 
Prologue - Welcome to 
Throughout the prologue and much of the first chapters, Yasuhiro remains the most relaxed out of all the students, assuming it to be an elaborate prank.

When Makoto introduces himself to Yasuhiro, Yasuhiro jokes constantly with Makoto about his guardian spirit and then offers him to drink with him. Makoto declines, stating he's far too young, and Yasuhiro states he's been held back three times.

Chapter 1 - To 
Yasuhiro drops his relax attitude after Mukuro Ikusaba's (in Junko Enoshima's guise) impaling. After the murder of Sayaka Maizono, Leon Kuwata used Yasuhiro's crystal ball to turn on the incinerator and burn his bloody t-shirt through the shutters blocking the garbage room. 

Chapter 2 - Boy's Life of 
Yasuhiro tried to convince Chihiro Fujisaki that voting Leon to be executed does not mean they killed him themselves but to no avail, as he wasn't sure how to explain it. He also talked to Makoto about an ill omen within the display case and pleaded to escape from the school to get away from it.

Later on, they are unable to find Byakuya Togami so go to search for him, Yasuhiro stating ominously that they should before it's too late. After a conversation between the class about how it was strange that there had been no attempt to rescue them by the police, Yasuhiro explained he heard a strange noise while in the main hall, the sound of a construction noise if it had to be described.

Monokuma appeared a little while later to explain the sound Yasuhiro heard may not have been construction, but rather an explosion or machine gun, and what is deduced is that it may be what is stopping the police from entering. Yasuhiro seemed later shaken up by the assumption of a potential murder when only a few of the class show up in the dining hall.

after Chihiro's body is discovered, Yasuhiro thought it was a joke when Sakura explained Chihiro was male. During the Class trial, Yasuhiro is convinced Byakuya is the one who committed the murder, but then later changed his stance and agrees to hear more evidence. He later voted Mondo Owada as the killer along with the rest of the remaining class.

Chapter 3 - A Next Generation Legend!
After Mondo and Chihiro's death, Yasuhiro was later framed by Celestia Ludenberg for the murder of Hifumi Yamada and Kiyotaka Ishimaru, as her last name was the same as his given name, "Yasuhiro".

After having Hifumi design a robot suit, she knocked Yasuhiro out and trapped him inside it, faking a photograph of "Robo Justice" kidnapping Hifumi and claiming him to be the "madman" that was running around the school. However, Kyoko Kirigiri and the others found that many flaws in the suit's design, such as the wearer's inability to bend properly, ultimately led to Celestia being outed as the true culprit.

Chapter 4 - All●Star●
After the revelation that Sakura was Monokuma's mole, Yasuhiro was one of the three (among Byakuya Togami and Toko Fukawa) that openly started to dislike her, and didn't argue with Byakuya's point that Sakura should be killed.

Sakura invited Yasuhiro to a private meeting to see if she could make amends, which he incorrectly interpreted as an attempt on his life. He knocked Sakura unconscious with a glass bottle and - believing he had accidentally killed her - framed Toko for the crime. After a light pressing in a Class Trial, Yasuhiro confessed his guilt.

After it was revealed that Sakura committed suicide, he took back his dislike for her and swore not to try and kill anyone again.

Chapter 5 - 100 Mile Dash; Pain of a Junk Food 
Refusing to fall like his former friends, either succumbed into crime or becoming the murder victim, Yasuhiro vowed to everyone that he would not do anything suspicious while helping out looking for clues to get out from their nightmare, including the sudden "appearance" of the 16th student Mukuro Ikusaba. As he has an alibi for the time of Mukuro's supposed death, he is seen with Aoi and Byakuya dismantling Monokuma after he was found motionless in the gym. He expresses his apologies at the end of the class trial for causing Makoto to be accused of being the killer and sentenced to an execution.

Chapter 6 - Ultimate Pain, Ultimate Suffering, Ultimate Despair, Ultimate Execution, Ultimate 
During the last class trial, Yasuhiro is one of these very students who sees Makoto as a non-existent figure and during the retrial of Mukuro's murder, Yasuhiro's Pre-Despair Incident notebook was found by Makoto during the final investigation phase and helped prove that the students were missing two years of their memories.

As the true perpetrator was revealed as the real Junko, Yasuhiro was one of the students who was shocked that the "Junko Enoshima" they met was actually Junko's twin sister, Mukuro, and remained stunned over that fact that the world's doomsday was caused by despair and the chaos was as real as truth.

As Yasuhiro is motivated by Makoto's words that hope is still alive, Yasuhiro would loudly reply that he would use his very own instinct to see through his own route because he believes that life is about moving forward despite the high and low.

With his support to Makoto, Yasuhiro witnessed Makoto managing to force Junko onto her knees and execute herself in a special punishment in the progress; which finally resulted in her 'death' and the survivors are finally free from the strings of this sadistic game.

Epilogue - Goodbye Despair 
Considering their torments are finally over, Yasuhiro remains uncertain about life after his gruesome journey, yet he would optimistically remark that instead of doomsday like Junko mentioned (considered it as a big fat lie), the other side would be normal or even happier than before. Hence, Yasuhiro was among the six survivors to escape the school.

Joining the Future 
Yasuhiro and the others survived together in the apocalyptic world until they were found by the Future Foundation. They decided to join Future Foundation to fight against despair and Future Foundation helped them to recover their school memories. Yasuhiro became a member of the 14th Branch.

Danganronpa Gaiden: Killer 
Chapter 3 - Bessatsu Shounen Zetsubou 
Yasuhiro was seen in the explanation of the Tragedy, along with the survivors of the Killing School Life as one of the people integral in stopping the Tragedy's mastermind, Junko Enoshima.

Ultra Despair 
Chapter 1
Yasuhiro went to Towa City in a helicopter along with 19 other members of the Future Foundation. He pretends to be airsick and runs off, as his real goal is in fact to find precious things to "acquire" in order to solve his eight million yen debt. While he's trying to rob a payphone, the children's revolution begins and Monokumas start to attack. In his confusion, Yasuhiro is almost cut down but is saved by Kanon Nakajima, who has a Megaphone Hacking Gun.

The two manage to escape the Monokumas and then introduce themselves. Kanon learns that Yasuhiro is part of the Future Foundation, and seems shocked. He finds her quite attractive but pokes fun at her after she speaks with a gyaru slang. She begins to break down crying for some reason he doesn't know. After she calms down, she explains her own situation as a Target.

Chapter 2
Yasuhiro and Kanon plan to head back to the building where the helicopter landed, but it explodes and Yasuhiro is unable to call his comrades.

The two find a safe place for the night in a shopping mall. Kanon asks Yasuhiro about the Hacking Gun and why it's effective against Monokumas. Yasuhiro explains to her that it was made for Towa machinery. He thinks Towa Group is suspicious and possible cause of the riot, as it seems they built the Monokumas.

After Yasuhiro mentions his fortune telling skills, Kanon requests that he tell her love fortune. He asks her for an immense sum of ten thousand yen for his service, which he figures she cannot pay, but she immediately gives it to him, explaining that her father is a big wig at a reputable TV station, TAT Television. He tells her fortune, saying that she is drinking tea in a garden with her destined lover. She then sighs with a smile, saying that it isn't possible since her fated one is dead. Yasuhiro then realizes that if he brings Kanon back safely to her father, he would be able to pay off his remaining debt. From then on, he begins treating her royally.

Chapter 3
In the second day, Yasuhiro and Kanon continue to work together to go to a bridge to attempt to escape the town. Surprisingly, they find many bullets for the Hacking Gun, dropped by someone. They stop for the night and stay in a video rental store. When Kanon uses gyaru slang again, she asks Yasuhiro to make fun of it and when he does, she suddenly hugs him. She apologizes and lets go of him. In her sleep, Yasuhiro hears her whisper Leon's name, making him realize that she was his Captive.

In the third day, Yasuhiro and Kanon reach the bridge, but it's being bombed and they are forced to turn back. However, they are immediately found by Kotoko Utsugi on her Fighter robot, who attempts to attack them. However, Kanon is very strong and immediately subjugates Kotoko, throws away her controller and ties her hands with her knee-socks. She tries to get information out of Kotoko and she tells them that Towa Group is responsible for kidnapping the Captives, but the Group also betrayed Junko at the worst possible time. Suddenly, Masaru Daimon comes to help Kotoko with his Hero robot. Yasuhiro would like to run, but Kanon decides to fight as she wants more answers. Unfortunately, Kanon is out of ammo, so the two escape by running.

Kanon tells Yasuhiro that her plan isn't to defeat the children and she implies she has own plans other than escape, which makes Yasuhiro slightly suspicious of her, but he doesn't tell her. They decide to go to the subway station.

Chapter 4
On the way, the two go inside an abandoned house so Kanon can go to the bathroom. Meanwhile, Yasuhiro holds her purse and decides to peek inside in case there's something he can "borrow", but she has very little money. He is disturbed to find out that her pocketbook features "Big Brother Leon Hell", dozens of pages with just his name up until the ink ran out. The last page reads "They're called 'Future Foundation', but it's not my future. I'm going to crush that group of hypocrites one by one."

Yasuhiro realizes that Kanon loves Leon in a twisted way and blames Future Foundation for his death. Kanon returns and Yasuhiro acts like nothing happened. The two keep going and Yasuhiro wonders why is she traveling with him, especially since he isn't useful to her in any way. He gets more and more paranoid and decides to read his own fortune, seeing two possibilities - a collapsing tunnel and Kanon crying her eyes out. Yasuhiro protests at first and tells about his fortune, but in the end, they go into the subway.

Kanon notices his attitude change but thinks it's just because of the toothpick she put in his hair at night. Yasuhiro decides to ask her opinion on Future Foundation directly, which immediately makes her realize that he has read her pocketbook. She kicks him on the ribs without warning and starts to strangle him in an attempt to kill him.

Chapter 5
Suddenly, Kotoko appears with her robot and she knocks Kanon off of Yasuhiro. Kanon avoids the robot's hits at first, but her right leg gets badly injured. Yasuhiro is very afraid, but his conscience tells him to help Kanon before she ends up killed. He tells his own fortune again and sees himself, fallen into despair as he stands over Kanon's body. Soon, Kanon appears to be unable to move, and Kotoko steps off of her robot to taunt her. She calls Kanon adorbs and starts to molest her with her "portable motivation machine".

Meanwhile, Yasuhiro starts up an electric train and it moves towards Kanon and Kotoko at great speed. Kotoko flattens herself up against the wall and tries to stop the train with her robot. Yasuhiro picks Kanon up and starts to carry her to safety. Kanon wonders why he's helping her and he answers that he's a member of Future Foundation and he can't be the helpless student forever. Kanon tears up and feels guilty about what she did.

Kotoko's robot throws the train off the tracks and she chases after Yasuhiro and Kanon. Yasuhiro starts to regret his attempt at being a hero and he is prepared to die. His crystal ball falls, and Kanon picks it up and throws it at Kotoko with all her strength. For the first time, she managed to throw just how she wanted. The ball hits Kotoko's face, making her drop her controller and stop the robot. Yasuhiro tries to get to the controller before Kotoko does, but Masaru shows up again with his robot. Yasuhiro is forced to run back to Kanon, pick her up and keep escaping. Kotoko and Masaru argue at first, but then decide to work together and chase after the two. Kanon tells Yasuhiro to drop her so he can escape, but he tells her that it's going to be all right. Suddenly, part of the tunnel collapses just as Yasuhiro predicted and prevents the children from following them.

Kanon is very glad that Yasuhiro survived and hugs him tearfully, much to his surprise. He patches up her leg the best he can and asks why she tried to save him after trying to kill him. Kanon answers that she doesn't want Yasuhiro to die, not anymore, but still wants the other Future Foundation members dead. She then realizes that she doesn't have a right to take revenge as Leon probably didn't even care about her or want her to do that. Yasuhiro tells Kanon that Leon truly cared about her a lot, which is confirmed by the fact that she is his Captive. Kanon starts to cry loudly as she realizes this and afterward decided to go back to Towa City and find Future Foundation. She isn't sure will she kill them or not and wonders that maybe they're good guys like Yasuhiro.

Yasuhiro decides to contact Future Foundation and tell them about Kanon, as nicely as possible. Part of him wants to go back with Kanon, but he feels he shouldn't be with someone who wants them dead. Kanon apologizes about a lot of things and thanks Yasuhiro before leaving. Yasuhiro decides to rest a bit, but changes his mind and runs after Kanon. He walks together with her, claiming that it's for the sake of solving his eight million debt.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Yasuhiro appears in Danganronpa 3 - Future Arc, along with Makoto, Kyoko and Aoi.

He's tried to change his image by tying up his hair and wearing glasses, but he's still the same old coward.

Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
Yasuhiro, Aoi, and Kyoko were waiting for Makoto's arrival on the rooftop of Future Foundation's hidden off-shore facility to attend his trial. He was quite upset when he was ordered to stay outside. As he attempted to see Makoto's future using his new 300 million yen crystal ball, a helicopter launched a missile toward the building, making the ground shake and causing his crystal ball to fall from his hands and break. The missiles separate him from the facility, meaning he was not a participant in the Final Killing Game.

Episode 03 - Cruel Violence and Hollow Words 
Yasuhiro tries to calls out to Kyoko and Makoto but is soon fired upon by the helicopter. He nearly falls off but manages to grab on, stating that they will be fine.

Episode 04 - Who is a 
In the episode review by Monokuma, he clarified that Yasuhiro was stuck outside the facility and did not participate in the Final Killing Game.

Episode 05 - Dreams of Distant 
Yasuhiro once again tries to call out to Aoi and Kyoko but is once again attacked by the helicopter.

Episode 06 - No Man is an 
Surviving the helicopter attack, Yasuhiro uses his fortunetelling and is confident that the current situation will have a happy ending. Making it clear that his fortunetelling always has a 30% success rate. He is later shown catching fish for food and cooking it on a fire while drying his clothes.

Episode 08 - Who Killed Cock Robin 
Yasuhiro is once again chased and shot at by the helicopter in the vicinity of the area but is later saved by Byakuya and his men who shoot down the helicopter and rescue Yasuhiro from danger. After some interaction with Byakuya, Yasuhiro begins to complain about how heavy the bomb crates are, the ones being used to destroy the blocked entrance to the Future Foundation building and requests Byakuya to start helping too, to which he declines in kind. Once the crates are in place and the entrance has been cleared, Yasuhiro heads for the entrances gleefully but is stopped by Byakuya with a firm hand, requesting he be safer waiting for their return, Yasuhiro willingly obeys although sheds a tear.

Episode 12 - It is Always 
Yasuhiro and Byakuya save Makoto, who is surrounded by brainwashed Future Foundation rescue squad troops. Yasuhiro charges down the hallway, knocking two soldiers to the ground before flailing his arms wildly in surrender, providing a distraction which allows Byakuya to apprehend the rescue squad with his own operatives.

Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and the Students of Despair 
Yasuhiro and Byakuya are able to find Aoi and come to her aid. Yasuhiro began tying fresh bandages around Aoi 's leg before expressing that Togami got buried in rubble laughingly, to Aoi 's shock.

Makoto later met up with Aoi, Yasuhiro, and Byakuya underneath a tent, Yasuhiro greets him warmly. Noticing a video on Byakuya's laptop, Yasuhiro and the rest of the group surrounded the screen, Byakuya explained that the Class 77-B broadcasted a message of 'despair', proclaiming they set up the Final Killing Game. Yasuhiro doesn't understand, clutching his head in confusion as to why they were saved by the Class 77-B when they were still Remnants of Despair. Byakuya commanded him to be quiet, prompting Yasuhiro to cover his mouth while Byakuya explained that the Class 77-B lied in order for the Future Foundation to still look favorable.

The Class 77-B set off for Jabberwock Island by boat, Aoi, and Yasuhiro both wave them off warmly, Yasuhiro thanking them for everything.

We later find that several months after the Final Killing Game, Makoto became the principal of a newly built Hope's Peak Academy and is working alongside Kyoko. Yasuhiro is seen outside on the school grounds, trying to receive a reading upon his crystal ball as Byakuya watched over him.

Danganronpa V3: Killing 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Yasuhiro appears alongside Makoto and Hajime in the game's demo, with him being the murder victim, just like in the first game's demo.

However, the ending majorly implies that they all actually worked together with Monokuma and appear to be just actors. They all compliment each other for doing good work, leave the set and mention working together in the future. Yasuhiro is then revealed to be alive, running after the others and telling them to wait for him.

Bonus 
He is playable in the game's bonus mode.


Quiz Time! I Heard There's a Chance of 30%! - Yasuhiro is a contestant on a quiz show set. Before him, there are 3 doors labeled 'A', 'B', and 'C'. There is a 1/3 probability that one is an execution. Yasuhiro tries to enter the 'A' door. The door grows hands and feet and escapes. 'B' does the same thing. Only door 'C' is left. He isn't willing, and a mouth appears on the door and eats him. This execution is described in the Danganronpa Visual Fanbook.


Family:
Hiroko 
Hiroko, Yasuhiro's mother, was chosen as his Captive during the Killing game. Yasuhiro explains that the reason she was chosen is because she is the woman who raised him, and the person he loves most in the entire world. Hiroko is very proud and protective of her son and seems to ignore his flaws, for the most part.

She is mentioned by Yasuhiro in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, when Tenko Chabashira tells him to appreciate all the women in his life.

Class 78th:
Survivors of the Killing School 
Yasuhiro seems to think off all his fellow survivors from the Killing School Life as friends. However, sometimes they don't think much of him, possibly due to his unique personality. Aoi even forgets about him at one point, and Byakuya does not help Yasuhiro out when he is asked to carry many heavy boxes (although he does do this to everyone). Toko is also very jealous of Yasuhiro since he became an official member of the Future Foundation. Still, Yasuhiro seems to have faith in their ability to survive, which is shown when Makoto, Kyoko, and Aoi get stuck in the Future Foundation building, and he assured himself that they'd be fine.

Towa City Residents:
Kanon 
Yasuhiro travels with Kanon and helps her try and escape Towa City after she saves him from some Monokumas. She gives him the nickname "Yasu".

Although he makes fun of her Gyaru speech pattern, he starts to treat her like royalty after finding out that her family is rich and might be able to help him pay off his large debts.

Yasuhiro is disturbed and afraid of Kanon after finding out that she is trying to kill members of the Future Foundation. Even after she tries to kill him, he still saves her from certain peril. The two have grown close during their traveling and Kanon admits that she doesn't want to kill Yasuhiro anymore. In the end, Yasuhiro stays with Kanon, claiming that it's for the sake of solving his debt.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Yasuhiro Hagakure & School Mode/Yasuhiro Hagakure

During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Yasuhiro in order to learn more about him. If he gives Yasuhiro a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Yasuhiro will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Yasuhiro's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

1234567
Yasuhiro Hagakure Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
I Ching	Tarot	Playing cards
Cryptids?	Thurman?	Spaceships?
Nazca	Aztec	Samba
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 60 Crystal Skull DR1 Present 61 Golden Airplane DR1 Present 76 Sacred Tree Sprig DR1 Present 87 Meteorite Arrowhead


Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Yasuhiro grants the following skills:

Lost in Thought	Increases the time limit for each phase.	3 SP
Crystal Prediction	Decreases an argument to three statements or less.	5 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Yasuhiro HagakureMakoto is able to see inside Yasuhiro's dorm room during Free Time events. His room is full of divination items from several cultures, including a poster on palmistry, tarot cards, Buddhist prayer beads, and yarrow sticks.

DR1ExtraDR3Novel
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"I'm Yasuhiro Hagakure—Hiro for short! Take it easy, yeah? I know I will!"
"But hey, we should grab some brewskis sometime and get real deep into Lemuria and its civilization."
"Come on, don't think like that. Cheer up! I bet this is all just part of the school's orientation procedure. Yeah, I'm sure that's it! So I'm just gonna take it easy for a little bit."
Chapter 1:

"Alright guys, everybody just calm down, okay? All this stress is bad for your skin, y'know?" (to Junko and Toko)
"Hey, come on, guys. Let's just stop talking about all this...you know, negative stuff... Man, if I got stressed every time something like this happened, I'd have ectoplasm shooting out my mouth! Good things come to those who wait, right? So we just gotta chill and everything'll work itself out!"
"This is all one big lie! It has to be! Hahaha...!"
"I didn't oversleep, just so you know. Nope, got lost! I blame the Bermuda Triangle..."
"Ugh...no way. I seriously don't wanna die here...! I'm begging you! God, Buddha, Mother Earth, God of Space, King Neptune! Help me!"
"Aggh! No no no no no! I gotta get outta here! Gotta get out now! I've had enough! Gotta break free!"
"Yeah! Our necks are on the line here! Someone seriously needs to do something. For serious...!"
Chapter 2:

"Ahhh! I've been struck with knowledge! It's an ill omen of total devastation and ruin! L-Let me outta here! Let me ouuuut!"
"Jeez, did your confidence just get up and walk away? It's fine, man, just tell us!"
Chapter 3:

"It's times like this where the committee chairman needs to get things going with a BANG!"
"Okay, well, anyway... Since Taka's like, catatonic... ...as the oldest one here, I'm officially stepping up to take the lead! So! We're all gonna work together and spend the rest of the day searching the school!"
"Stay focused, man! Don't let Monokuma's bullcrap sidetrack you!"
"It's okay. I mean, anyone can make a mistake like that. As a matter of fact, one time I thought I'd spotted a Grey alien, but it turned out to be a tadpole!" (to Aoi)
"Don't be mean! I was just trying to make you feel better! What if I get all depressed forever now?!"
"I-It's a ghost! Buddha and sweet baby Jesus, save me!"
"Be careful, don't get us caught! If Ogre finds us, we'll be meeting up with Hades in no time...!" (to Makoto)
"You can say ten million or however much, I don't give a crap! For serious!"
"Okay, okay, let's everyone just head back to our rooms! And don't think about that whole money thing! Got it? Good! Then let's break! ...How was that? Pretty good, right Taka?"
"I happened to do a psychic reading for a certain famous CEO once... And that guy was seriously head over heels for a mannequin. He had a wedding and everything! And your eyes just now... I saw the same look in HIS eyes!"
"They're rivals in love. What're ya gonna do...?" (About Kiyondo and Hifumi)
"Up till now you haven't given a crap about anything, and *now* you're all concerned? I don't buy it."
"Well, I was always taught that if you had bad penmanship, a ghost would come and haunt you."
"Well after being trapped here so long, even if you know it's a lie, you still gotta check, right? Gyaho! They preyed on my desire on my desire to get out of here! They deceived me!"
"Feet don't fail me now!"
"Why...? Why are you making us do such cruel things to each other!?"
"Wh-What do I care about hope!? I'll throw in the trash if you just let me out of here!"
Chapter 4:

"When this is all over...I think I wanna get reborn for serious. Er—I mean, reborn AS someone serious..."
"Im totally okay! I'm not gonna die! Why? Cuz there aren't gonna be any more murders! I predicted it last night! Since it revealed itself to me from the ether, there's no doubt about it!"
"Of course not! Clairvoyance is clairvoyance!! Don't put it in the same category as cattle mutilation!"
"Who cares about a stupid lock! It should be no problem for the world's strongest missing link to knock down one measly door!"
"What's wrong with our government!? Our taxes pay their salaries, they should be handling stuff like that!"
"I haven't been this depressed since my house burned to the ground! Someone, do something to cheer me up! It's cuz my dad was smoking in bed!"
"C'mon guys, stop fighting, or all your good luck is gonna float away!" (to Makoto and Kyoko!)
"You just love being mistreated..."
"Well, guess we have no choice but to use force! A shot to the face would stand out, so go for the gut! Who cares? I've already got a mountain of lawsuits waiting for me when I get out! What's one more!?" (About to attack Genocide Jack)
"I'm strong against women and children, but not women and children that seem strong..."
"Hey, come on! It's just a program! You *can* tell the difference between a program and a friend, right?"
"I think...maybe I understand where you're coming from... Then there's no problem calling him a friend! After all, the more friends the merrier, right!? Check this out! Friendship has no survival value. Instead, it gives value to survival."
"Don't "so anyway" that! It's a totally smart and cool thing that I quoted from I don't remember where!" (to Kyoko)
"Ya know, Makoto... When a guy and girl go at it, it shortens the lives of the people who have to watch it happen, too. And since it's me saying it, you know it's true! So like, hurry up and make it better." (About Makoto's quarrel with Kyoko)
"Cheer up, man! It's not a big deal if a girl doesn't like ya! It's better than having one sue ya! ...Like I did."
"But man, I couldn't believe it. I was positive I was about to see someone's life come to an end... If I ever saw something like that, I'd never be able to sleep again! Which would suck! I love sleep!"
"I-If you're gonna go that far, what can I do? I mean, I don't have anything to hide, so why should I care?"
"Y-Yeah! I'd never kill someone, no way!"
"I'm not afraid to admit when I'm wrong! That's just the kinda guy I am!"
"Damn straight. This is all because our misplaced hatred. I don't blame her! I CAN'T blame her! And nobody can blame Hina, either!"
"What!? You can't just stop at the most important bit!"
Chapter 5:

"He just acts like that to hide his own insecurities. That's what I like to think, anyway..."
"I may have been held back three times, but that doesn't make me stupid!"
"Whenever I look at Toko these days, it makes me feel...sad."
"Jeez, how cocky can you can be!? You're gonna bust through the ceiling if your head gets any bigger!"
"This is the worst school ever, where only the worst stuff happens, right? Amnesia would fit right in."
"I can do this... I'm a man, and I can do this! I've got the will of the entire universe on my side!"
"We've finally reached the climax! So let's hurry up and finish it, before the mastermind catches us all!"
"Omega-3 fatty acids, that's what you need! Great for the ol' memory factory!"
"What are we gonna do!? Going from five to four is gonna have an impact on the structure of the world! It's like a jigsaw puzzle. If even a single piece disappears, the entire world will remain unfinished!"
"I'll tell ya! I bet some unknown quantum particle caused an atomic-level spontaneous combustion!"
Chapter 6:

"Even if I bought the whole amnesia thing, the idea that I would want to live here forever... That's just insane! How can I believe that!?"
"Like, Genocide Jill is crazy for sure, but...this is a whole another level of nuts!" (About Junko)
"H-How can the world just end!? It's...it's the world!"
"All my fortune-telling senses are telling me not to leave this place... ... Ngaaaaaah! But to live means moving forward, right...? So even if it's hard...even if we're scared...we don't have any choice, do we? I want to keep on living! I want to open the next door! There must be something new waiting for me! So that's why... That's why...! No matter what, I need to get out of here! The whole fortune-telling thing doesn't matter anymore! What matters is my own gut feelings!"
"I...I've decided to have faith in myself!"
"Yeah, Makoto totally seduced us over to his side!"
Epilogue:

"B-But you know... In the end, I...! I think part of me still thinks... ...maybe, when we get out of there, we'll see that everything she said about the world was a lie. That on the other side of this door...is a world as peaceful as we remember."
"If there's no road, you just gotta build one! Creation... Fate is telling me to remake the world! That's...my hope! I've reached the next stage! The next chapter of Yasuhiro Hagakure's Life Story is about to begin! Thanks, Hina! You've totally opened my eyes!"
"Hey, guys! You guys want your fortunes told, anywhere, anytime, you just let me know! I'll be there!"
Bullet Time Battle:

"Show me the proof!"
"I'm AT LEAST 30% right!"
"Can't hear you can't hear you!"
"The occult is bullcrap!"
"Conspiracy!"
"Give it a rest!"
"The end is nigh!"
"Well now I can use my new 300 million-yen crystal ball to view Makoto's future."
"One hundred percent without a doubt she wrote it! And this is me talking, so you know it's true!" (Final Argument)

The name "Yasuhiro" (康比呂) is composed of the kanji 康 - "ease" or "peace", 比 - "compare" and 呂, which literally means "spine" but also represents the notation of the Japanese classical music known as Gagaku. Thus, the meaning of the name as a whole could be translated as something similar to "peaceful indulgence in music".
Yasuhiro is referred to as "Hiro" by characters in the localized version of Danganronpa.
The name "Hagakure" (葉隠) translates as "concealed among the leaves/blades/spears" (based on which meaning of 葉 ha is chosen), perhaps in reference to Yasuhiro's unique, bombastic hairstyle, which looks a bit like a palm branch or a bunch of swords and completely conceals his head from behind.
Yasuhiro spent one hundred million yen on his crystal ball. He states that raising that much took about two years of saving from his fortune-telling fees.
Yasuhiro appears to possess a strange type of luck, with him surviving against all odds multiple times, notable examples being the helicopters shooting at him in Danganronpa 3 and the collapsing tunnel in Ultra Despair Hagakure.
Ironically, this appears to work backward in non-canon stories, with him being the first victim in the demo versions.
While he has a high luck with survival, he has very poor luck with money-related matters, with his expensive crystal balls breaking constantly as a running gag.
In Ultra Despair Hagakure Yasuhiro reveals that he has a debt of over 8 million because he extorted money from "the girl related to the Kuzuryu Clan".
The mafia organization that is after Yasuhiro was revealed in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc IF to actually be the Kuzuryu clan, meaning he may or may not have met Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu, the Ultimate Yakuza.
Based on their interactions in the Danganronpa V3 non-canonical bonus mode, Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Fuyuhiko is unaware that Yasuhiro scammed his sister and Yasuhiro is unaware Fuyuhiko's family is one of the families he owes money to.
He is included with the participants of the Final Killing Game in the Future Arc opening, including the counter of people remaining, despite being trapped outside the building without a bangle and not actually participating in the Killing Game.
He is a fan of video games.
Yasuhiro makes a reference to the famous video game series Resident Evil during chapter five referring the bio lab as the place with the final boss or Tyrant.
Yasuhiro is the first victim in the Danganronpa 1 demo. This is deliberately done to hide the true identity of the first victim. Additionally, an anime trailer depicted him as the first victim for the same purpose.
He repeated the same role in Danganronpa V3's demo, down to being "killed" in the bathroom. At the end of the demo, his voice is heard among the s with Makoto and Hajime implying that he didn't die and it was all part of the act.
His unused execution could be making fun of the fact that he claims his predictions are 30% accurate.
On the Danganronpa 3 website, his name was initially misspelled as "Yssuhiro".
Yasuhiro's English voice actor in the game, Kaiji Tang, also voices Koichi Kizakura and Gonta Gokuhara.
On Kaiji Tang's official Tumblr, he stated that he would not be voicing Yasuhiro in Danganronpa 3 for continuity's sake. Instead, Christopher Bevins, who had previously voiced Yasuhiro in Danganronpa: The Animation, reprised the role in Danganronpa 3.

Danganronpa 2 - Usami Appears
Usami was created by the Ultimate Programmer Chihiro Fujisaki, a specialist in A.I. programming, to take the role as the Observer in the Neo World Program, a psychotherapeutic virtual reality rehabilitation program able to help treat individuals who have experienced trauma. The program would remove harmful memories, then create a peaceful and safe simulation in which to help the individual create new, less harmful memories. As the Observer, Monomi would be able to advise and influence individuals who entered the program. Based on the individual's experiences, she would take on a role which would feel familiar to them, alongside a second Observer who would resemble someone they knew in the outside world.
Against the commands of the Future Foundation, Makoto Naegi planned to try and use the Neo World Program to help rehabilitate the Remnants of Despair, the 15 survivors of The Tragedy from Hope's Peak Academy's Class 77-B. However, because the Neo World Program was still in its experimental stage, it was left vulnerable to exploitation.

Entering the Neo World 
Danganronpa 2 - Virus Launches
The survivors of Class 77-B entered the Neo World Program as avatars, with their memories of their time as classmates and friends at Hope's Peak Academy removed. In this particular simulation, because their version of the Neo World Program was designed to heal their traumatic school life, Usami took on the role as the lead teacher of a school trip. A second Observer, in this case, an avatar of Chiaki Nanami, was also created, based on one of the students' classmates who had been killed. However, just as Usami had begun helping the students familiarize themselves the island, a virus implanted by Izuru Kamukura activated, corrupting Jabberwock Island and allowing an avatar of Monokuma to enter the simulation.

Danganronpa 2 CG - Usami turned into Monomi
Usami tried to defend her students, but Monokuma overpowered her and used the virus to strip away Usami's "magical" abilities, changed her appearance to resemble his own, and renamed her Monomi. He then demonstrated his power by "executing" her using his Monobeasts, a team of large animal-shaped mechs with oversized weapons, although Monomi was able to respawn due to having spare copies.

Monokuma quickly planted seeds of doubt in the students' minds by explaining that there was a traitor among them who was responsible for removing their school memories, which immediately put suspicion on Monomi due to her similar appearance to Monokuma and his insistence that she was his little sister. As a consequence, the students began to distrust her, and she was not invited to the party thrown by Byakuya Togami, and instead helped Chiaki guard the entrance to keep Monokuma out.

After the killing game began, Monomi began to panic, because the simulation was designed to be peaceful and there was no procedure for dealing with that kind of scenario other than shutting the simulation down. Monokuma forced her to attend Class Trials despite her revulsion, tying her up with rope and suspending her from the ceiling. After each trial, Monomi battled one of the Monobeasts guarding the island's bridges in order to make more of the corrupted simulation accessible.

Danganronpa 2 - Monomi's House
Despite several murders having already occurred, Monomi continuously tried to encourage the students to co-operate rather than distrust one-another. After the rest of the students turned on Nagito Komaeda after his attempted murder of Byakuya, Monomi untied him in the hope that the students would work together. She later became locked in the Final Dead Room with Nagito and tried to help him solve the puzzles to escape. However, when Nagito became increasingly more determined to flush out the traitor among them, he broke into Monomi's House and stole her treasure box. Inside the box was a diary of the events on the island, written and illustrated by Chiaki.

Nagito set a trap, knowing that due to his talent as the Ultimate Lucky Student, it was guaranteed that the traitor would unknowingly throw a poisoned fire extinguisher canister which ultimately killed him. When the students realized this at the Class Trial, Chiaki stepped forward and revealed that she was the so-called traitor - working as a member of the Future Foundation (the creators of the Neo World Program) who Monokuma had made the students believe was a sinister organization responsible for them being trapped in the killing game. Both Monomi and Chiaki were unable to explain the situation fully or reveal themselves as the Observers due to their programming preventing it. Monomi tried to interfere with the Class Trial to protect Chiaki, even lying that she had no relation to Chiaki whatsoever, but the diary which had been stolen from Monomi's House proved that she was lying. Chiaki implored the other students to vote her as the person guilty of Nagito's death in order to protect them, and they did so, causing Chiaki to be sentenced to be executed.

Danganronpa 2 CG - Monomi self destructing
As a final act in defense of the students, Monomi decided to sacrifice herself, grabbing hold of Monokuma and self-destructing. Because they both had spares, they both respawned, so repeated this self-destruction sequence several times. Monokuma stopped her by revealing that he had 1060 spares which he had been mass producing in Jabberwock Island's factory and she realized it was futile to continue attacking him.
Danganronpa 2 CG - Monomi and Chiakis Execution
Monokuma decided that he would execute Monomi alongside Chiaki, since because Monomi is not a student he wasn't bound by the rules of the killing game. Both Chiaki and Monomi accepted their fate for the sake of the surviving students, willing them all to not give up on their futures. They were both executed in a punishment themed around Chiaki's talent of Ultimate Gamer, called Please Insert Coin.

Danganronpa 2 CG - Usami destroying AI Junko
Despite being executed, after the surviving students later initiated the shutdown sequence for the Neo World Program, Usami was able to reappear in her original form and destroy the gigantic avatar of Junko Enoshima which represented the virus infecting the simulation. This allowed the students to escape the simulation they were trapped in.

Miaya Gekkogahara's 
Danganronpa 3 Miaya Gekkogahara's Wheelchair
Miaya Gekkogahara, the Ultimate Therapist and the leader of the Future Foundation's 7th Division, was a co-creator of the Neo World Program alongside Chihiro Fujisaki (the Ultimate Programmer) and Yasuke Matsuda (the Ultimate Neurologist). Miaya was a mute woman who used a wheelchair and only communicated with others through a talking, animated avatar of Usami. Miaya's avatar of Usami differs from the Usami present in the Neo World Program, more closely reflecting the personality of the person communicating with it, but still using Usami's speech pattern and body language quirks.

Danganronpa 3 Miaya Gekkogahara and Monomi
Miaya was going to be present at the trial of Makoto Naegi, who was a suspect of protecting the Remnants of Despair (the students who entered the Neo World Program) against the wishes of the Future Foundation, however, Miaya was murdered by Monaca Towa before she could attend. Monaca created a robotic replica of Miaya and used that replica to infiltrate the Future Foundation. The replica used Miaya's wheelchair and continued to use Miaya's avatar of Usami in order to communicate. Like her counterpart in the Neo World Program, Usami is hacked by Monokuma at the start of the Final Killing Game and reverted Usami to her Monomi appearance. As Monomi, she communicated - through animation and speech - whatever Monaca wished robotic Miaya to communicate, rather than having free will of her own. The robotic Miaya was later destroyed by Kyosuke Munakata.
Creation and 
Art Book Scan Danganronpa 2 Character Designs Beta Monomi (01)
In the Super Danganronpa 2 Official Settings Material art book, 10 variations of Monomi's design are shown featuring several ideas that the development team considered before settling on Monomi's final design. The earliest designs show Monomi with bear ears instead of rabbit ears, suggesting she may have been originally intended to be a bear, or be turned into a bear when she was transformed into Monomi from Usami by Monokuma. The idea of a Monokuma with a pacifier may have inspired the design of the Monokubs in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony several years later.
Art Book Scan Danganronpa 2 Character Designs Beta Monomi (02)
The second design document shows that the design team toyed with a few other different details, including going back and forth on using a red and white color scheme instead of pink and white, trialing different types of diaper design (including a skull applique), a skull tattoo on her arm, and having her bow covering her navel instead of accessorising her ear. All of the designs feature Monomi holding different types of weapons, particularly knives, very far removed from her final, more gentle design.


Usami (ウサミ), written in Hiragana as うさみ, resembles the Japanese word for rabbit, Usagi (うさぎ). Monomi (モノミ) is based on the name of Monokuma (モノクマ). The name Monomi is likely a reference to the character Dorami from the Doraemon franchise. Like Monomi, Dorami is the younger sister of the series' mascot character, Doraemon. This reference is supported by the fact that Nobuyo Ōyama, Monokuma's Japanese voice actress, famously portrayed Doraemon for 26 years.

Alternate 
School 
Main article: School Mode
School Mode UsamiIn Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc's School Mode (an alternate universe dating sim mode) after reaching the 51st day, if the player managed to build every backup assigned, including the final backup "Warlockuma" (which resembles Usami), the students will all gather around Monokuma, who yells at them for making a "backup" that doesn't even look like him. Out of anger and frustration, Monokuma decides to punish Makoto, saying that it would "motivate" the other students to do a better job next time, but the "backup" suddenly comes to life to defend the students, introducing itself as Usami. After a small argument, Usami attacks Monokuma until he agrees to release the group, who gives them the escape button before disappearing. Usami then thanks the group and says goodbye before mysteriously shutting down. Although many of the students are still confused, the group happily makes a small celebration as they are finally allowed to leave Hope's Peak Academy due to Usami's intervention.
Island 
Main article: Island Mode
Island Mode ScreenIn Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair's Island Mode (another alternate universe dating sim mode), the game essentially follows how the Neo World Program would have proceeded for the students if the virus had not infected the program. As in the main game, the students meet on the beach and Usami explains that collecting everyone's Hope Fragments will allow them to go home. This time, when the virus strikes and Monokuma enter the simulation, Usami is prepared and defeats him before he can cause any damage, leaving herself in her Usami form and the students unhindered so that the simulation is able to proceed. If the player manages to complete all of Usami's construction tasks and earn all of the students' Hope Fragments within the allotted time, the true ending is unlocked, and Usami proudly wishes her students well as they are able to leave the island.
Danganronpa V3: Killing 
Danganronpa V3 Bonus Mode Card Monomi U JPN
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's board game mode (part of a collection of connected bonus modes in which the player can collect, level up and play a dungeon crawling mini-game with characters from throughout Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc, Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, and Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony casts), both Monomi and Usami are separate playable characters. The board game mode exists in an alternate universe in which all 3 games' casts all attend the same Alternate Universe version of Hope's Peak Academy simultaneously, and Usami is their teacher. If the player chooses to play as Monomi or Usami, they can experience conversations between Monomi/Usami and other characters from the franchise.

Danganronpa 2 Character Design Profile Usami
As Usami, she is a white rabbit with white feathered wings and two upright ears accessorized with a pink bow. She wears a pink and white skirt similar to Sayaka Maizono's stage costume, a pink bib with white hems, and a gold necklace similar to Sailor Moon's Crisis Moon Compact. She carries a pink staff which is topped by an upside-down and right-side-up golden heart with a red gem in the center of it, framed with a pair of small white wings.
Danganronpa 2 Character Design Profile Monomi
As Monomi, she is a pink and white rabbit with one floppy ear accessorized with a yellow bow. Like Monokuma, who redesigned her, her design is split in color down the middle, with her left side pink and her right side white. She has one red robotic circular eye. She wears a cloth diaper and has a visible navel. She carries a tree branch with a white cloth tied around it.
Danganronpa 3 Monomi
In Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak Academy, when Miaya Gekkogahara uses her as an avatar, Usami initially resembles her original appearance at the beginning of Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, but with a star on the end of her magic staff. After being forcibly transformed into Monomi again, she resembles Monomi's appearance in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, but with a gold moon on her ear instead of a ribbon. The gold moon may represent Miaya, as her last name, Gekkogahara (月光ヶ原), means "field of the moonlight".


Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Usami is gentle and kindhearted, but also very naive and not very smart. While she is strict about rules and certain other things, it's very easy to trick or persuade her. All she wants is to foster love, friendship, and good manners, emphasized in her catchphrase "love, love!". Because of this, she can even come across overly sweet and annoying. She encourages everyone to live in peace and strengthen their bonds with each other. She is very happy and proud when everyone gets along, and scolds them when they do bad and kindly asks them not to do it again.

Usami is afraid of violence, fighting, and cruelty, considering all of it "a big no-no" - the mere thought frightens her. She also emphasizes the importance of caring for the environment, prohibiting the students from throwing trash anywhere on the island (because she stated if you littered it would trigger an alarm). Furthermore, though she is very childish, Usami is aware of sexuality and tries to prevent the teens from doing anything "shameful". Comically, she sometimes incorrectly assumes that one of her students is interested in her and she's shocked by the idea of a romance between teacher and student. She seems to view herself as a lady who needs to be treated with delicacy and respect, though obviously nobody else does.

As the students' teacher, Usami often tries to guide and encourage them and take charge, but she is never taken seriously. She lost the last lingering thread of her authority after she was turned into Monomi and became an unwitting pawn to Monokuma. She is often the butt of his jokes, physically and verbally abused on a regular basis. Monomi rarely tries to fight back, as she believes she can't do anything without her magic stick, but she sometimes tries to snark back at Monokuma with poor success.

The students are very distrustful of Monomi because she is keeping important information from them and some believe she is working with Monokuma. They are also annoyed by her overly sweet nature and low intelligence. They often think she's useless, and when she does help, she is never appreciated. It makes her sad, but she says she is used to it. She is often ignored and sometimes downright bullied, but Sonia Nevermind and Chiaki are shown to be a bit more nice towards her.

In the end, Monomi only wants to help and protect her students and does it even if she isn't appreciated. Though she is shown to be somewhat cowardly at times, she is ready to give her life for them at any time. She is supportive towards everyone and believes in them no matter what. She is completely forgiving and never blames them for the murders, even though it makes her shocked and sad whenever someone does something bad (instead, she blames Monokuma, calling him the root of all evil). This is especially evident in her dialogue with Nagito Komaeda, who is distrusted and hated by most other characters. Despite generally considered useless, she has moments when she gives genuinely inspiring and even wise speeches, with even Izuru Kamukura acknowledging that she for once sounded like a teacher in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan.

Usami/Monomi appears to be a relatively young AI, which may explain some of her childish and naive traits, along with the fact that she was created into an artificial world where violence and other bad things shouldn't even exist. In the Japanese version, she even talks in a very childish way, sometimes including chu sounds in her speech, most notably replacing the "desu" copula with "dechu" in the original Japanese release.

Makoto Naegi mentions that there was a possibility that Usami's behavior might have gone too extreme, to the point where the students would have to escape the program, but this did not happen in the main story nor in Island Mode. In order to protect the students from this possible scenario, she was programmed with a strong fear of mice, as it would prevent her from entering the Nezumi Castle. The castle would have acted as a hiding place for the students and contains the code to enter the ancient ruins so that they could graduate and escape the program. Monokuma inherited this trait from Usami after stealing her role as the observer, though she still retained the fear after losing her role. Monomi specifically states that she is scared of the idea of mice biting her ears, referencing Doraemon, who is famous for being earless and afraid of mice due to a robotic one gnawing his ears off.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High 
While Monomi still talks and acts in a childish and excited way, as she was acting as a avatar of Miaya, she also becomes more proactive and is far more willing to express her anger at people and opinions Miaya did not agree with. However, she is actually Monaca's avatar, not an independent AI.


Family:

When Monokuma shows up on the island, he adopts Usami as his little sister without her approval. She is usually beaten up by Monokuma when she irritates him, which happens often. Monokuma also likes to make fun of her. He also always punches or harms her when she bothers him.

In Danganronpa 3, Usami sees Monokuma as a threat and unlike Monokuma, who seems to recall Usami as his "little sister", Usami has no recollection of Monokuma. In the Danganronpa 3 relationship chart, Monomi tells Monokuma that he isn't her big brother.

Chiaki 
Both AI Chiaki and Usami were created by Alter Ego. They are usually trying to protect the other students from Monokuma, as seen in Chapter 1 when they stand guard outside the old lodge together. When Chiaki accidentally kills Nagito, she is executed along with Monomi.

Remnants of Despair
Most other students either distrust or ignore her, possibly both. She continues to try and make friends with them, but they all decline her.

Nagito 
Many of the students after the first trial, distrust Nagito. However, Usami believes in his good side and tries to encourage him to be more self-confident, make friends and do good things. Unfortunately, Nagito doesn't take her seriously and, just like the others students, he considers her an annoyance. After Monomi was in the Final Dead Room with Nagito, she remarks that she is afraid of Nagito since he tried to shoot himself when he had to play Russian Roulette as the last part of the Final Dead Room.

Hiyoko Saionji 
Hiyoko often likes to tease Usami while Monomi tries to become friends with her and the rest of the characters. Hiyoko states how Monomi always acted like a party pooper and thinks she is annoying while Usami feels upset. Hiyoko continues to tease and bully Usami and treats her like a plush toy. Hiyoko despite the idea of letting Usami participate in the events that all of their classmates attended.


DR2Extra
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"That's right, I am a squeezably soft stuffed animal. Magical Miracle Girl ★ Usami...A.K.A. Usami! I may not look like it, but I am your squeezably soft teacher. Nice to meet you all!"
"...Does everybody here know what a rabbit is? It's a loveable animal that's very fluffy and soft. That's what I am! A singing, dancing, talking rabbit mascot!"
"A large group of students go on a chaperoned trip with a lead teacher! It's the biggest even of the school year! Now let's depart for the fun school trip!"
"Feast your eyes on this beautiful ocean... It's like your heart is being washed clean, isn't it...? It washes away everything...even all the bad things..."
"I'm praying from the bottom of my heart that hope will grow within everyone's heart!"
"Bloody business, like causing violence or inflicting pain, is a big no-no on this island! Event the word "kill"... Just saying it horrifies me! Kyaah! So scary!"
"Spend these peaceful and relaxing days nourishing hope and lazing about, free from pain, free from suffering... Truly, this lovey-dovey heart-throbbing school trip is... ...everyone's homework!"
"Teehee... I know how to apologize like a good girl!"
"Gather Hope Fragments so that the flower of hope achieves its full bloom. Truly, that is... ...the main purpose of this school trip! Love! Love!"
"Got it? I want everyone to get along and live peacefull on this beautiful tropical island."
"I'm Usami...Magical Miracle Girl ★ Usami. I'm an itty bitty girl who's sweet like milk!"
"Let's keep up the pace and all do our best to peacefully enjoy this heart-throbbing school trip!"
"Everyone! Please stay back! I-I will protect everyone! Even at the cost of my own life...I will protect everyone!"
Chapter 1:

"Pfft, hehehe! You don't have to worry about that! After all, I can never die! A-Anyway...let's all do our best! Let's kick the evil Monokuma off this island!"
"Everyone needs to look to the future... That's why...you shouldn't look back to the past... Keep your eyes fixed upon the future. L-Let's do our very best!"
"Yes, if it strengthens everyone's bonds with each other, then I will not hesitate to cooperate. So in that case, I will allow you to enter the old building! I'll cooperate so we can all party together!"
"U-Um... You can't doubt each other... Cuz...you're all friends..."
"Nooooooo! Friends doubting friends is a major no-no!"
"I don't wanna...I don't wanna help you guys mistrust your friends..."
"Such a hateful bear... You deserve to die a thousand deaths...!"
"I'm Monomi! And my heart is throbbing like crazy right now! The group's leader, Byakuya, got killed... And his killer is among this group of students...? Nope, I'm not gonna believe it! I'll never believe it! Cuz...I believe in everyone. So do your best! And don't forget to save regularly!"
Chapter 2:

"Now that you all can go to more areas, let's get along and live a fun life together for sure this time! Love! Love!"
"I-It seems that...everyone's united on a path that's different from what I had planned..."
"Anyway, breaking the rules is not allowed. Also, playing is fine, but please focus on your studies, too..."
"Hehe, everyone can get along and study together. It's a student's duty to study."
"Th-Think what you want of me... I've already given up. But let me tell you this one more time! As long as you guys work together, you should be able to stand against any kind of despair! I promise I will help that!"
"I just wanted everyone to get along...and, you know...cooperate... But...fighting among friends is what Monokuma wants you guys to do..."
"I believe in you...if everyone works together, you should be able to stand against any despair... I...will definitely help you out!"
"Yep yep... The debate proceeds when you assume you can believe each other... Good job! That's the right way! That's the splendid power of teamwork! Hey! What do you think of that Monokuma!? I'm not gonna let you have the outcome you want!"
"I'm Monomi! And my heart is throbbing like crazy right now! To think that the person who killed the wonderful Mahiru Koizumi is in this room... Impossible! Impossible! That's so impossible! There's no way I can believe that! Ugh... I can't do anything, how annoying... But I'm just gonna believe in everyone that's the least I can do... Everyone do your best! Don't lose to yourselves! And don't forget to save regularly!"
"You guys can see it, right? You can see this countdown too? ... ...Four people are already gone. We took our time preparing the Hope Fragments, but now we're no longer able to gather them. ... Honestly...I'm not so sure anymore. Whether it's better if we let them leave this island... Or if we shouldn't let them escape... For those kids, which option is hope and which is despair? But...I guess there's no time to hesitate. If this countdown reaches zero... That guy will probably take over our plan's final stage as well. What lies beyond that is the foul resurrection of the Ultimate Despair... And the continuation of the biggest, most awful, most tragic event in human history... ... Th-That cannot be allowed! We must prevent that by any means necessary! Even if...we have to pay the ultimate price, I will definitely prevent it by any means! ... Everything is for the sake of a future filled with hope..."
Chapter 3:

"Jeez, don't treat me so harshly! I did my very best today too! Well, once again I've defeated another Monobeast! How do you like me now? I worked hard, didn't I!? That's right! You are now able to visit yet another island! ...So let's all live happily ever after with each other this time, okay? No more getting tricked by Monokuma... No more thinking about leaving this island... Let's all live together peacefully as best friends!"
"What happened? Is there a problem? Fighting is not allowed!"
"Impossible, impossible, impossible, impossible... It's impossible for killings to happen on this island..."
"Please leave Nekomaru to me! Everyone must focus on investigating, so I must do my very best! All righty! I will definitely bring back Nekomaru and win everyone's trust!"
"In a wuarrel, both sides are to blame. That's why it's better to just have no sides at all!" (to Gundham and Kazuichi)
"Heeeey! Don't put my likeness in your movies without my permission!"
"I'm Monomi! Once again, I've been put in such an unreasonable situation! Seriously...he's like the king of unreasonableness. Why did it turn out like this...? We were supposed to have a fun, friendly school trip, but it turned out all bloody instead... Nooooo! This definitely cannot be allowed! That's why...I want you to remember this! Everyone, do your very best! Don't lose to yourself! And don't forget to save frequently!"
Chapter 4:

"Monokuma's just toying with other people's bodies! I, too, was modified by Monokuma, so I totally understand how Nekomaru feels... But don't be depressed! You'll get used to it! It's surprising how quickly you'll get used to it!"
"Once again, you can visit a new island, so please take this opportunity to get along with everyone..."
"I've been reduced to the role of an unwanted child... My influence is weaker than it's ever been... If this keeps up, history will remember me as the greatest character to ever become a one-shot punchline."
"Heheheh... How terrible of me as your teacher to cry in front of one of my students..."
"Even teachers have a private side that their students aren't allowed to see! Also...you're a boy of a certain age. If you come inside, I'll make sure I leave the door open halfway. Otherwise, my mommy won't shut up about it..."
"It's okay...I won't be depressed anymore... I'm used to being treated so poorly... Hehe! How sad! It's so sad to get used to it! I'm a failure as a teacher! I have no right to guide everyone!"
"Jeez! Just as I thought, I was forgotten! Well, I'm used to it after all! Pfft...tee hee!"
"You're wrong! Nagito is not trash at all! There's no such thing as a human being who doesn't deserve to live! I know I'm being heartwarming right now, but my heart is super scared and pounding like crazy!"
"Nagito! If there's anything you don't get, just ask me! By all means, I'll help you and make sure you get out of here! Bring it on, Escape Game!"
"If you don't know something, don't overwork yourself. Feel free to ask me anytime!"
"I-I... I...I'm scared of you...Nagito."
"Ugh... So sad... My chest hurts... Forcing everyone to do this is so sad..."
"Don't blame this on me! Take responsibility for yourself!"
"Hehe...I'm already used to insults and slander... There's no way I'll get hurt by a mere word."
"Hello! I hope your day is well! ...I'm trying to force myself to be more energetic, or else my mental state won't be able to keep up! Ah, my heart's thumping like crazy! I might as well have a laid back "so what" attitude and go ahead with high energy! Yeehaaaaaa! Ah, but be careful that your batteries don't run out! For various reasons! And just like I say each time, don't forget to save frequently!"
Chapter 5:

"No gratitude... I'm being treated like filth..."
"After a fierce battle that's never been seen in history, I've finally succeeded in conquering the last Monobeast! Because of this, it's finally possible for you to travel to the final island!"
"What a thin reaction. It's like I'm surrounded by tons of shabu-shabu from an all-you-can-eat restaurant..."
"B-But...I still can't ignore it... I just can't allow...my students to fight among themselves... Love! Loooove!"
"Ugh... Kazuichi won't listen to me no matter how much I tell him... But I won't give up...! As a teacher, I must correct my students for good!"
"No...a robber is no excuse... A female teacher with a young boy student in her house...is just inappropriate! Aaaaaah! I've been splattered with disgrace!"
"Y-You don't have enough delicacy... Entering a woman's house without her permission, and touching her things...makes your teacher very sad... This will not be allowed! Hajime needs a class in morality!"
"I-I'm not doubting my students or anything...but my important thing was definitely stolen..."
"Shut up! I can't stand this anymore! How much longer are you going to keep putting them through this!? No more! I won't let you! I'll make sure I pulverize your evil intentions!"
"Gh...I won't give in to your threats... I'll fight you until the very end... I will definitely take back the seat of world supremacy from Monokuma!"
"It looks like...the time to settle thing between us is getting closer every second..."
"...You haven't realized it yet? That feeling of wanting to leave this island... Thinking like that is Monokuma's trap, you know? There's no way...Monokuma will end things here... He's planning...something far worse! Everyone... You mustn't run away from despair... I have finally realized...after losing my powers... I've realized that cursing your powerlessness or your fate accomplishes nothing. The possibility may be small... But as long as there's a possibility, you must face it. In order to become...someone who can be proud of yourself... ...So I will fight!"
"You just shut your mouth. It's against the rules to interfere with everyone. If you even think about doing anything, I have a plan of my own...!"
"Awwwwww... Splendid... You guys are so splendid right now... That's right! If all your hopes are united, no despair can shake you!"
"Don't say such stupid things... I...I hate you so much right now... Besides the fact that you snap at me like that, I don't trust you at all! Not even a teensy, tiny, 1mm bit!"
"I'm Monomi... By now, there's nothing more for me to say... Anyway, my chest is full of pride right now! Everyone is united against despair... They're totally awesome! That's why...I'm gonna fight, too! I will fight the only way I can... I'm gonna show that guy my fearsome retaliation! ... ...That's basically it."
"I've...always been alone... I...have no friends...anywhere... That's why I have no relation to Chiaki whatsoever!"
"It's not up to me to decide whether that's right or wrong. However, I believe it's truly amazing that you are able to think like that. We could even call this...a miracle."
"Chiaki... You really are a kindhearted person. Jeez...I wonder where you got your personality from?"
"Then I...I cannot lose to Chiaki! Just like Chiaki and everyone else... Even if I know it's a fight I cannot win... I must try to retaliate!"
"I...will no longer let you do as you please! Eeee! As they say, we shall die together! Not yet! I'm not done yet! If I don't beat you... Nobody can... If I don't beat you... Nobody can...live in peace!"
"I will be the one...to protect my students... I will protect them with my life! Now then, how many of you are still there!? You might as well come out all at once!"
"I-I won't give up...! Even if I have no chance of winning...I...!"
It's okay... Even if I'm here, I'd just be burden anyway... And not just that... I've decided to believe in everyone!"
"Just one last time... Let me say something that makes me sound like a teacher. There's no need to be a hero. You don't need have to force yourself just to make people acknowledge you. When you do that, you end up blaming yourself, blaming other people...and feeling jealous of everyone... But still...it doesn't have to be like that. Even if people don't acknowledge you, you just have to be someone that you can be proud of! Cuz...you yourself are your biggest supporter! If you can learn to love yourself... That love will continue to support you for the rest of your life. Love...love..."
"Bye-bye! Please don't forget about your teacher."
Panic Talk Action Remarks:

"Hajime, you stupidface!"
"I won't let you!"
"Let's all get along..."
"Burst open and mix!"
"Disappear!"
"I can't lose!"
"Don't defy your teacher!"
"I'll lower your grades!"
"Chiaki and I aren't best friends!" (Final Argument)
List of Appearances 
GameAnimeLight NovelsMangaStage Plays
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc: School Mode/Cameo
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair: Major
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls: Cameo
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony: Bonus Mode
Danganronpa: Monokuma no Gyakushū: Major
Danganronpa: Unlimited Battle: Major

Usami Test Model
In the game assets of Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair is a model file called test_usami_model.gmo which features running and idling animations. Based on the file name it is likely this was a test model for Magical Girl Miracle ★ Monomi.
Crypt of the Necrodancer Monomi sprite
Monomi appears as a playable skin in the rhythm-game Crypt of the Necrodancer.
In the beginning of the second class trial, after the students discuss the murders which took place in Hope's Peak Academy and inspired the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case, Monokuma and Monomi (who is tied up next to his seat) get caught up in a small discussion over how violent high school students have become nowadays. The humor behind this little exchange stems for the fact that Monokuma and Monomi's voice actresses, Nobuyo Ōyama and Takako Sasuga, respectively, are both senior voice actresses who are best known for the roles they have portrayed in some of Japan's most famous, long-running animated shows since the 1970's.
In the Japanese version of Magical Girl Miracle ★ Monomi, when transforming in Usami mode, Monomi shouts "Miracle Make-up!" (ミラクル、メイクアップ), which is a reference to the transformation of the magical girl anime character Sailor Moon, who's main transformation phrase is "Moon Prism Power, Make Up!". This likely ties into the fact that Usami's design resembles a Magical Girl (like Sailor Moon). Sailor Moon's Japanese voice actress, Kotono Mitsuishi, also voices Danganronpa 2 character Peko Pekoyama.
Danganronpa Another Episode Monomi cameo
Monomi's face makes a cameo appearance at the end of Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls, appearing in a building above the word "Fin" (The End). This was intended to show that Danganronpa 2 came directly afterward.
Monomi is the only main character not to appear in Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School/Despair Arc and the main story of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.
She is also the only character from Danganronnpa 2 not to appear in Despair Arc.
As seen in a sprite, she was probably going to appear in her Usami and Monomi form in the last Class Trial. However, it is unknown how she was going to appear
In the English version of Danganronpa 2, one of Monomi's voice lines is "Yippee Ki Yay!", part of an iconic line from the Die Hard series of movies.

Hajime is a young man in his early twenties, around 22 at youngest. His virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as his 17 year old self.

He has short, spiky brown hair with an ahoge that moves according to his emotions. He wears a simple white shirt with the emblem of his previous high school embroidered on the hem. He wears a green tie which also bears the same emblem. He has black jeans and red-and-white sneakers. During his time in Hope's Peak Academy, he wore a black reserve course student uniform, which is the same clothes he wears as Izuru Kamukura.

Hajime's eyes have a straight line running across his pupil, resembling a prohibition symbol. Although his eye color is originally green, his eyes turned red with symbols resembling target radars when he lived as Izuru, and his left eye stays red after the two personalities merge. The design of both his eyes have also adapted Izuru's target radar design.


In the official art book, as well as in Chiaki Nanami and Nekomaru Nidai's Free Time Events, it's implied that Hajime has some muscle, as he has done some exercise. However, he's mentioned as the type who looks thinner when dressed.

Though never seen in the games, the official art book shows that he has dark blue trunks with white cherry blossom pattern, which are even described as fashionable. Apparently, he does not show them even to his closest friends and his underwear is normally "a mystery", humorously referencing the bonus modes and free-time events.


Hajime is seemingly cynical due to how he behaves, but it would be better to describe him as a realist. He is quite skeptical and tends to worry more than the other students, but his worries are often very understandable. He is logical and smart, often annoyed by the idea of not being able to understand someone or something at all. He tends to be quite serious, but he does joke around occasionally and often goes along with his classmates' eccentric hobbies anyway, and sometimes smiles awkwardly and sheepishly while his friends engage in some of their usual weird behavior. He is sometimes annoyed by some of his classmates, and can be snarky towards them in his thoughts as well as blunt while speaking to them at times, though he's more frank than sarcastic or mean-spirited. Though sometimes a bit submissive (especially with bossy girls), he is not afraid to speak his mind, and he can be rude if annoyed enough (for example, after enduring Hiyoko's attitude during her Free Time Events, he finally ends up stating "I don't even care anymore"). He can sometimes be short-tempered and snap at others, especially when he's tired or under pressure. He was also quite paranoid during the start of the game and didn't have much interest in friendship, but he later really wanted to believe in his classmates and felt bad about doubting them during the Class Trials, but understood it's necessary. He sometimes regretted exposing the murderers, as shown after singling out the murderer in chapter 3.

Hajime's more aggressive personality is well demonstrated in a scene in Danganronpa 3, in which he attempts to punch Juzo Sakakura after he spoke in a very condescending and dehumanizing manner, and slapped Chisa Yukizome's hand away in anger when she tried to help him, which is notably different from the way the other protagonists would have behaved. In the Japanese version, his more blunt personality is also shown in his way of speakingーduring Nonstop Debates, he uses the phrase それは違うぞ (sore wa chigau zo; lit. "That's wrong"), while Makoto Naegi says それは違うよ (sore wa chigau yo; lit. "That's wrong"). Using よ yo in the end of a sentence is much more polite than using ぞ zo, which is perceived as impolite and more masculine. Another example of this is how he uses the more masculine and boastful word 俺 (ore) to refer himself while Makoto uses the more polite word 僕 (boku). Notably, he has also referred to Junko Enoshima as an "insane bitch", which is something Makoto wouldn't do even in the case of his worst enemies. Due to his more irritable personality, both Monokuma and Nagito have more or less jokingly compared Hajime to a tsundere, with Nagito calling him "tsuntsun hair" and Monokuma outright calling him a tsundere.

Despite his faults, Hajime is generally pleasant and easily exhibits kindness and thoughtfulness to others around him; he genuinely cares about everyone. Although he may have trouble understanding or relating to his classmates, he is tolerant of everyone's eccentric personalities and quirks and is always willing to listen and give advice. The official artbook reinforces this by stating that he spends his time talking with everyone and gets along great with both the girls and the guys. In Free Time Events, he makes even the most antisocial characters feel more relaxed and they often reveal things about themselves they wouldn't tell anyone else. Due to this particular trait, Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu thinks that Hajime's talent might be Ultimate Counselor and Nagito calls him Ultimate Serenity.

It's also heavily implied that Hajime is romantically inexperienced, appearing somewhat shy and even naive about the topic. He once mentioned that he hadn't really thought about it and has never asked a girl on a date. However, during Free Time Events and especially during Island Mode, several characters appear to have romantic interest in Hajime and he sometimes responds by flirting, dating or even forming actual (non-canon) relationships with them. He is sometimes shown to be a bit gullible when other characters show interest in him, with he himself admitting that he is "kind of dense" during Hiyoko Saionji's Shot Through The Heart event. Ironically, he incorrectly assumes Peko Pekoyama has romantic feelings for him during her Free Time Events, while actually she is one of the few characters who is confirmed to not have any feelings towards him.

Though he tries to hide it, Hajime is very insecure about his lack of talent and it bothers him deeply. This caused him to admire Hope's Peak Academy more than anything, as he believed that attending the school would fix his problem. He wished to be part of something bigger than himself, to become more confident and someone he can be proud of. He felt bitter about being just a reserve course student. Chiaki was the one who guided Hajime to see the reality that whether or not he had a talent was irrelevant. It was largely due to her support and encouragement that he was finally able to overcome despair and gain true confidence.

After Hajime awakens from the Neo World Program, he preserves his memories and identifies as Hajime Hinata, accepting that the future includes countless possibilities which can sometimes end in failure. As of Hope, it is revealed that Hajime and Izuru's personalities are mixed. Though he identifies as Hajime and acts mostly like him, having the capability to feel, he still becomes bored easily at times and sometimes his demeanor resembles more Izuru than Hajime. He is also capable of using Izuru's talents, which makes him the strongest person in the world, if he has reason to be. However, Kazutaka Kodaka has stated that he still has humanity and emotions, which could make him surprisingly weak. "If you've got Kazuichi talking smack about you, you're not all that great", Kazutaka said laughing, referring to Kazuichi's "This guy's from the Reserve Course" comment in Hope Arc.


Ultimate 
After fusing with Izuru's identity and becoming a new person carrying Hajime's name, he gained Izuru's ability to use all the known Ultimate talents that has been researched at Hope's Peak Academy. He has been seen using only a few. As the Ultimate Hope, Hajime possess many talents such as the Ultimate Analyst, the Ultimate Soldier, etc.

Hajime supposedly has the talent of an Ultimate Analyst. However, unlike other people seen with this talent, Hajime is much more capable of feeling emotions and lacks constant boredom. However, he still feels bored at the times, most likely because of his heightened analyzing skills.

Hajime has heightened physical strength, reflexes, and speed, to the point of being superhuman. He is capable of defeating several armed and skilled people in a few minutes. He is also seen easily bending metal and ripping a human-sized hole in sturdy wall.

Similar to Izuru, Hajime seems to be capable of being more cold-blooded when needed, as he badly wounded and likely killed people who were threatening his friends.

Hajime utilized an incredible talent which could bring back the comatose students alive from the Neo World Program. It could be talent related to Therapist, Neurologist, or Programming as these talents were held by the creators of the Neo World Program. Though, considering the fact he was imbued with every talent known to Hope's Peak Academy, it could easily be a combination of the three.


Counseling 
Though he does not naturally possess an Ultimate talent, other characters have noted that Hajime may have potential for many things, the most notable trait being his ability to make other people feel more relaxed and talk about their issues. Because of this, Fuyuhiko says he could be Ultimate Counselor while Nagito calls him Ultimate Serenity. However, though he's glad to help, Hajime feels that such a talent would be stressful. Hajime also displays this trait as he manages to calm down Ryota Mitarai during the ending of Danganronpa 3.


Prior to the 
Ever since he was a kid, Hajime admired Hope's Peak Academy and dreamed of attending it. It was a big dream of his, like being a celebrity or a superhero. He was insecure about himself and wished to be part of something bigger than himself, to become someone he can be proud of. He felt that his life as a talent-less person was boring.

As a teen, Hajime indeed enrolled into Hope's Peak Academy (his previous high school being Kodaka High School), but into its Reserve Course Department. As he had no talent, his parents had to pay a lot of money to get him into the school. However, as a talent-less reserve course student, Hajime still felt like he was not good enough. This resentment towards his own incapability led to the strong desire to become a main course student. The ambition-less attitude of the reserve school disagreed with him, and he often spent his time alone.

Hajime's ambition eventually culminated his participation in the Izuru Kamukura Project, undergoing numerous operations to enhance his abilities. Upon agreeing to the Kamukura Project, his official record marked him as expelled. Inhumane experiments were then conducted on him, and his memories of his life up until that point were erased, both of which Hajime did not expect.

Hope's Peak Academy exploited Hajime's feelings of admiration toward hope and talent just to use him as a lab rat. All of his senses, emotions, thoughts, and hobbies that could interfere with acquiring talent were excised. All of his memories of the past were forcefully suppressed into the darkest recesses of his mind. By directly interfering with his brain, the academy transformed Hajime into a completely different person whose specialty is talent itself. He was meant to be the fruit of all the research produced by Hope's Peak Academy's staff, a genius among geniuses possessing various talents, and he was named Izuru Kamukura after the academy's founder.

Izuru was known as the symbol of mankind's hope and he was given the title of Ultimate Hope. To protect such rare talent, the academy completely concealed all evidence of Izuru's origins and identity.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak Academy 
Hajime was standing in front of a fountain in the park, staring at Hope's Peak Academy main building. His head begun to hurt as he remembered everyone's insult about him being a Reserve Course student. Suddenly, Chiaki, the Ultimate Gamer, bumped into him while playing a game. Chiaki continued to walk until Hajime recognized that the game she played was Gala Omega. Hajime was overwhelmed by Chiaki's enthusiastic response after he told her that he also played the game. Chiaki made Hajime promise to show his game to her next time they meet.

Chisa Yukizome, looking for Chiaki, noticed that Hajime was in the Reserve Course judging from his uniform. The Ultimate Imposter, who had been dragged along by Chisa attempted to escape while Chisa was preoccupied with the conversation. Hajime laughed awkwardly, remarking that the Ultimates are more ridiculous than he initially expected. He envied the Ultimates and wished he had talent too.

Chiaki, disagreeing with Hajime, stated that whether one is talented or talentless doesn't make a difference. She goes on to say that having no talent allows him greater freedom than those with incredible talent. He can go anywhere and become anything, unlike her who only has games. When Chiaki left with Chisa, Hajime smiled at her and kept her words in his heart.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
Hajime rested on the park bench, gazing at the sky until Chisa called his name, surprising him. Wanting to learn more about the Reserve Course, Chisa asked Hajime why he joined the Reserve Course. Patiently, Hajime answered that he joined the Reserve Course because he always aspired to attend Hope's Peak Academy, but couldn't find his resolve to join the Izuru Kamukura Project. When Hajime referred to himself as a "lowly Reserve Course student", Chisa reprimanded him and stated "everything starts with belief in yourself". He reluctantly obeyed her advice as she went back to her class.

Soon, Hajime was approached by the former headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy, Kazuo Tengan, to talk about the Izuru Kamukura Project. Despite the deadline is coming, Hajime still hasn't made a decision yet. He worried if he didn't accept the project invitation, he would get kick out by the Academy because his parents didn't have enough money to pay the student fees. Kazuo told him he can decline the invitation and return to his former high school. As Hajime raised his objection, Kazuo told him to not fear normalcy.

In Hajime's class, a new transfer student came and introduced herself as Natsumi Kuzuryu.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, Hajime said that he wanted to have a talent that he could take pride on it. However, he was disappointed with himself for becoming a talentless and original person.

The scene began during the break time. Hajime, alone on his desk eating his lunch and reminded himself about what decision he should make since the deadline was only seven days left. Natsumi, the new transfer student talked to him and wondered why he always gazing at the Main Course building. Hajime doesn't seem to pay attention with what she was talking until she introduced herself as a family member of Kuzuryu Gang.

Hajime learned that he and Natsumi resembles in desiring a talent so they can be scout in the Main Course. Their differences is that Natsumi will do anything to do anything for it, unlike Hajime. Sato, a classmate of Hajime hit his desk after she eavesdropped their conversation, telling Natsumi not to plot something bad to her friend from the Main Course, Mahiru. As they continue to argue, Hajime tried to stop them until Mahiru came and took Sato out form the classroom.

After school ended, Hajime and Chiaki played Gala Omega games together at the water fountain near the park, the place where they first met. Hajime lost and said that his ability in gaming was nothing to be compared to the Ultimate Gamer. Chiaki, annoyed by it, said that Hajime lost because he wasn't focusing on his game. In turn, Hajime asked if Chiaki had no talent of gaming, and always lost whenever it comes to games, would she come to dislike it. Chiaki answered that she loves games and there are things that are far more important than just talents, like making memories with her friends. Hajime, surprised after hearing her words, was once again impressed by her resolve.

The scene change to where Hajime tried to stop Sato from punching Natsumi. He chased after Natsumi and asked her to stop intimidating either Sato and Mahiru, since if she continues, she wold get kicked out from the Reserve Course and will never get a chance in becoming a Main Course student. Natsumi said that she didn't care, stating that a person with no talent has no right to interact with talented people. These words later impacted on Hajime's decision to accept the Izuru Kamukura Project. Hajime comforted Natsumi by saying that there's something more important than talent itself. Hajime said that she can stay by her brother's side and keep making memories with him. Afterwards they part, and that was the last time Hajime saw Natsumi because the day after, her lifeless body was found in the Music Room.

Hajime mourned on a bench at the water fountain. He spotted Mahiru and Sato talking about Natsumi's murder. After Mahiru left, Hajime approached Sato to ask her about the truth. Sato lied about Natsumi's death, saying that maybe she has given up on having a talent. Hajime, angered, said that Natsumi couldn't have done that because she still had hope. Sato objected that statement and left the scene. Several days later, Hajime never saw Sato again since she was also murdered by Natsumi's big brother, Fuyuhiko.

Hajime wanted to learn about the truth behind Natsumi and Sato's murders by asking Mahiru directly, but an officer prevented him from sneaking inside the Main Course building and when he tried to force enter, the person in charge of Hope's Peak Academy's security, Juzo Sakakura slammed him down to the ground.

Juzo gave Hajime a cheap explanation and stated that Reserve Course students can be easily replaced. This statement triggered Hajime until he attacked him. As the former Ultimate Boxer, Juzo easily dodged his attacks and delivered a powerful blow onto his stomach. Hajime didn't agree with Juzo's view of the Reserve Course since every lives were created equal. He once again stood up and tried to fight back. Fortunately, Chisa came to his side and protected him from another blow given by Juzo. To his disappointment, Hajime threw Chisa's handkerchief when she offered it to him and left.

The day of the deadline approaches and Hajime cones to a decision; accepting the Izuru Kamukura Project. When he met with Chiaki who has already waiting for him to play a new game, Hajime turned down her request and said that they will play together another time. At the end of the episode, Hajime arrived at the Steering Committee's building to begin the Izuru Kamukura Project.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Since he had agreed to the Kamukura project half a year ago, when Chisa looked into his school record, she found that he was marked as expelled.

Hajime is seen laying on a bed in just a robe. He thought back to Juzo telling him he has no talent. He also thought back to his last encounter with Chiaki. A scientist entered the room and told Hajime that the operation would start soon. Hajime then ends up in a pod, and the scientists assured him that he won't feel a thing, although he might be confused when he first woke up. Hajime thought about how he will become someone that he can be proud of around Chiaki. As the operation began, his eyes turned red.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy 
Now in the Neo World Program, Nagito introduced Hajime to Chiaki Nanami. After exchanging greetings and names, the two shake hands.

During the 
Izuru was later influenced greatly by Junko Enoshima and he subsequently became a member of Ultimate Despair.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
After the death of Junko, Izuru agreed with the other Remnants of Despair's plan to allow Alter Ego Junko to take over their bodies through the Neo World Program. The program's original purpose was to undo Junko's influence, but Izuru downloaded Alter Ego Junko into it.

After Izuru entered the Neo World Program, the program dug up the memories of Hajime and rebuilt his old personality from the data acquired in the past.

Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Hajime is first seen in front of the building of Hope's Peak Academy. He introduces Hope's Peak Academy and himself to the player. As he entered the entrance hall, his words became random, he felt dizzy and he quickly lost consciousness.

When he woke up, Hajime found himself in front of a door which led him to the class his classmates were in. After Haime enters, everyone realized that the door had been locked, and they all attempted to opened it until a rabbit-doll like creature that called herself Usami appeared. Usami then transported them to a tropical island, with her magical stick, named Jabberwock Island.

Hajime and his classmates began panicking at first, but when Usami tried to calm them down, Hajime lost consciousness. Nagito, one of his classmates, wakes him up.

After Hajime woke up, Nagito stated he should introduce himself to the others and Nagito accompanied him with his introductions and exploring the central and first island, able to gather his first Hope fragments. As a present for doing so, Usami had prepared presents for everyone on the Sandy Beach on the first island.

Usami gave each of them two presents: the first was a doll of herself and the second was a swimsuit set and most of the students went to swim including Hajime, while a few didn't. As soon as he steps close to the water, the sky suddenly turns dark and the weather turns bad.

Usami told Hajime that she is not doing anything, and yet, she's panicked by the weather changing so suddenly. While she's still panicked, someone talked and ordered the students to come to the Jabberwock park at the central island. Usami recognized something and disappeared in order to stop this certain someone. Hajime and the other students had no choice but to go to the Park so they won't miss something.

Hajime and the others met with Monokuma, the self-proclaimed Hope's Peak Academy's Headmaster. He quickly defeated Usami, turned her as his adoptive weak little sister "Monomi" and immediately executed her with his Monobeast. Monokuma's true incentive was to change the field trip to a Mutual Killing Game. He announced that only the one who commited murder and kept their identity as a culprit hidden until the trial was over could freely return home. Hajime and the others are aware to protect themselves from any students, and from the killing game.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
Daily Life
After Monokuma arrival and Usami's execution, Hajime came to the pool near the cottage, and looked up at his e-Handbook, and found that some rules were added by Monokuma. Hajime pondered about everything that he just experienced, Hajime looked up at the night sky that was filled with beautiful stars, but it was just a reminder of how far everyone including Hajime had been taken from what should they have been for their lives.

Hajime returns to his room when Monokuma broadcasts his Nighttime Announcement, frustrated, he kept yelling to himself, why he must accept such a grievous fate. He chooses to have a light sleep, to have a break and to clear his mind, as well as to prepare everything for tomorrow.

On the next day, after the Morning announcement, Monokuma entered Hajime's cottage, shocking him. Monokuma than explains to him that he hid Monokuma figures scattered around the island, if Hajime could found any, he could exchange the coins for some items at the beach and in Rocketpunch Market. Monokuma then disappeared once he was done explaining.

Hajime joined the meeting after Mahiru Koizumi successfully dragged Kazuichi Soda who was scared by the Monobeast. Just when the meeting began, Ultimate Imposter declares that they'll became the leader of the group, stating that they'll not allow a single victim to fall. Hajime and the others thought that the Ultimate Imposter is rather aggressive, but they finally accept the Ultimate Imposter as their new leader.

At night, Monokuma through the surveillance camera that spread all over in the island, told the students to go to the Jabberwock Park. Hajime, went to the park as he knew that opposing Monokuma would be bad for him and the others. After he arrived Monokuma and Monomi appeared on a stage that they set and began the event, called by Monokuma as "Monokuma Big Laugh Manzai Live Show".

Just as Monokuma bullying Monomi for the most, Monokuma said that Monomi's erased the students memory. Monomi, stayed to keep shut her mouth, and Monokuma told to the students that there is a "traitor" among their numbers. Monokuma also gave them a "motive", to get their memories of their previous school life. The Ultimate Imposter as the leader, ordered them to abandon this motive and move forward, and also ordered them to take a rest. When he arrived at his cottage, Hajime still was thinking about the traitor, but he discarded many speculations in his head, and collapsed onto the bed.

Hajime woke up after the Morning announcement on the next day, confirmed that he's more fit than last night. In the usual breakfast meeting in hotel restaurant, The Ultimate Imposter started the discussion about their plan to throw a party that night, all the way until morning and none of them were allowed to take absence.

Everyone thought that day was not a perfect time to throw a party, but after several discussions, they finally set up the party location at the old lodge and were granted permission to used it by Monomi. Nagito suggested one of them cleaned the Lodge, by drawing lots that he just prepared, which make Hajime thought that Nagito maybe imagined that would happen.

Nagito himself got the red mark chopstick and it was settled that Nagito was going to cleaned the Lodge, "So much for Ultimate Lucky Student" Hajime said to him. Beside that, Teruteru Hanamura, was willing to cook the party food, and Peko Pekoyama would invite Fuyuhiko to come to the party, then everyone dispersed, including Hajime, agreeing that they would meet at the old lodge after Monokuma's evening announcement.

After Monokuma's Nighttime announcement broadcasted, Hajime headed to the lodge and immediately body checked by the Ultimate Imposter. Later after being body checked by the Ultimate Imposter, Hajime came to the main hall and was welcomed by Nagito who already attended to the main hall and finished cleaning the Lodge.

Everyone excluding Fuyuhiko (not coming) and Teruteru (in the kitchen, serving the party food) was already in the main hall. The Ultimate Imposter believed that Teruteru still had some dangerous weapons, and they wanted Hajime to accompany him to the kitchen.

Hajime asked the Ultimate Imposter if keeping the dangerous items really necessary. They later discussed about it and led the Ultimate Imposter to share their past to Hajime a little.

Hajime learned that the Ultimate Imposter lived a harsh word that forced them to act as someone else. Just as when Hajime and the Ultimate Imposter ended the discussion, Teruteru broke into the kitchen and was flustered when Hajime and the Ultimate Imposter confiscated the cooking utensils. The Ultimate Imposter asked Teruteru that there is still one steel skewers missing, but Teruteru stated that the skewer was already gone since he first came to the kitchen. Afterward, Hajime, the Ultimate Imposter, and Teruteru returned to the main hall where everyone was waiting.

Everyone enjoyed the party, from Akane who couldn't stop eating, and Mahiru who decided to took some photos, Nekomaru Nidai  who attempted to left the party because of needs to void, Gundham Tanaka who lost his earring, until Teruteru who're still serve the food from the kitchen and busy explaining how beautiful and delicious the foods that he made were. Hajime's thought that there was no need to worry, until suddenly a black out occurred.

Everyone excluding Hajime panicked, refusing to just wait until the power came back, Kazuichi decided to go to the power outage. But before he did anything, the lights and electricity came back. Just after that, Mikan Tsumiki fell in a messed up figure again, success to ease the panicked students. Hajime, noticed something, that the Ultimate Imposter has just disappeared from the main hall.

The students searched everywhere, Hajime even asked Chiaki, and she stated that there was no one going outside during the black out, so Hajime and the others returned to the main hall. Surprisingly, Akane smells blood from the table near the lamp cord, so Hajime nervously reached under the table, and he swore that he will never forget the sight when he lifted the tablecloth, the dead body of the Ultimate Imposter.

Deadly Life
Hajime stand firm right in front of the tablecloth, still confused why one of his friends dead in such a way. Mahiru and the others started to panic and scream until Monokuma showed up, explained that he will hold a School Trial; to facilitate the students, Monokuma give them "Monokuma File 1". Monomi, who doesn't agree with Monokuma's idea to hold a school trial, gets punched and dragged by Monokuma to nowhere, leaving the students no choice but to start the investigation if they did not want to be executed.

Before Hajime started the investigation, he checked the Monokuma File 1, and the information shown were :

The victim's body was discovered in the main hall of Hotel Mirai's old lodge.
The time of death was around 11:30 p.m
The cause of death was stabbing with a sharp object. The victim was stabbed multiple times in the region between the abdomen and throat again and again. There are no other wounds on the body, nor any traces of poison or other drugs.
After that, Hajime checked the table where the murder took place. However, the only significant thing on top of the table is just a table lamp who its power cord is attached to an outlet in the wall. Then he encouraged himself to investigate the Ultimate Imposter's body under the table. Hajime found the Ultimate Imposter's blood flowing out and has formed into a pool under the table, but there's no trace of a trail of blood anywhere. Besides the Ultimate Imposter's body, Hajime found a night vision goggles, who according to Nagito was originally from the supermarket. There is also a knife who covered in the packing tape, and the glow in the dark packing tape itself stuck under the table.

After done investigating under the table, Hajime trying to calming down Mikan who panicked caused of Monokuma who forced them to investigate the Ultimate Imposter's death. Mikan tells to Hajime that she panicked during the black out, and her foot got caught on the edge of the carpet and when she tried to get loose she ended falling in an embarrassing pose. Hajime also tried to calming down Mahiru, who blame the Ultimate Imposter's death to herself.

Mahiru then helped Hajime by showed to him the photo's she took before the blackout. Suddenly Mahiru notice that the Ultimate Imposter standing quite a distance from the murder took place. After succeed calming the girls down, Hajime got Gundham who lost his "Devildog Earring". When Hajime asked about it, he ended told the story how he get the Devildog Earring. Hajime noticed a gaps on the floor, so when Gundham look at it, his earring was there, he then choose to find a way to get his earring back.

Done with everyone at the main hall, Hajime looked up at the Ultimate Imposter's duralumin case which he carrying himself during the party. Surprisingly, it's opened, there's a nightstick inside and a can of tear gas and some other unsettling items and a strange empty hard plastic case. Beside everything, Hajime found a key to the other duralumin case that filled with dangerous weapon. Hajime conclude that the other case can't be opened, and the weapon inside it have nothing to do with the Ultimate Imposter's murder.

Done with the case, Hajime found an air conditioner and its timer. Strangely, the timer is set to 11:30, the same time the Ultimate Imposter were killed, which means the mechanical beep was from the air conditioner turning on. After feeling that he has done investigate everything at the main hall, Hajime accompanied by Nagito to investigate the other room in Old Lodge.

Hajime first encountered Ibuki Mioda in front of the main hall's door. Ibuki said that she can remember everyone's conversation during the blackout. After talking with Ibuki, Hajime and Nagito asked Nekomaru about his problem during the party. He said that he wanted to used the only toilet in the Old Lodge, but it was locked, probably because someone was using it during the party. Hajime and Nagito also found a fire door which could be sealed to stop fire from spreading and giving everyone a better chance to escape.

In the kitchen, they interrogated Teruteru about his food and found the other kitchen equipment. In the warehouse, Hajime and Nagito were able to discover a bloody tablecloth and some powered on irons. Finally, in the Office Room, they found the circuit breakers of the Lodge, but its location was too high to reach. Somehow, Monokuma was the only one who could have flipped the circuit breakers.

Kazuichi declared Peko as the culprit, because she was not in the office room during the blackout. He also suspected Peko because she felt unwell when she left the office room. Hajime and Nagito found that the duralumin case which Peko bought to the office room was still locked and when they check, the content was still okay. After finishing the investigation in the Old Lodge, both of them decided to investigate the Ultimate Imposter's cottage.

However, before Hajime and Nagito could go further, they discovered Chiaki and Gundham investigating space under the floors from the outside. Gundham was still busy to search for his earring, and Chiaki stated that the truth behind the Ultimate Imposter's murder hinges on whether space under the floors is accessible or not. Later, Chiaki said something interesting about Fuyuhiko who just passing by the lodge during the party held. Then Hajime and Nagito encountered with Fuyuhiko who said same thing with Chiaki, Hajime wonders it's just a coincidence or Fuyuhiko who wanted to join the party.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
Daily Life
After waking up, Hajime recalled the events of the previous night in which the Ultimate Imposter was murdered by Teruteru who was executed for his crime. Still feeling sluggish, he proceeded to meet with everyone at the hotel's restaurant where he discovered not only that Hiyoko Saionji refused to shower due to being unable to dress herself in her kimono properly, but that Nagito, who he thought was a kind individual until it was revealed otherwise during the first Class Trial, was missing. After discussing the two events, Monokuma arrived and asked the group where one of his Monobeasts was. Since they didn't have the answer, Monokuma left, allowing Monomi to arrive and admit that she defeated the missing Monobeast, allowing the group to go to the second island and explore.

Upon exploring the second island, the students found that it had a library, a diner with a beach house not far off from it, a drug store with many types of prescription medications, and a mysterious ruin that looked much like Hope's Peak Academy. The group explored this ruin and found the front door was seal and had the Japanese word for 'future' written on it. Monokuma then arrived and told them about the mysterious World Ender organization that intends to end the world, while also revealing that Monomi and himself cannot go into this ruin. After a while, Hajime returned to his cabin for the day.

The next day, Hajime found out the truth of Nagito's whereabouts the last few days: he was tied up by Kazuichi and Nekomaru in the dinner hall where the Ultimate Imposter were murdered, stating that it would be better if 'the traitor' was tied up so as not to disturb the rest of their trip. Later that night, the class received a summons from Monokuma asking everyone to report to the Center Island. There, Monokuma showed them what would be the second motive for his sick game: a video game of a long forgotten game franchise brought back to life by Monokuma - Twilight Syndrome Murder Case. He stressed that the key to this game was a 'missing link' and proceeded on his way while telling everyone to play it, otherwise someone else may play it and take advantage of it's secrets to commit a murder. The group unanimously agreed to not play it, but once told not to do something, it becomes hard to not do.

A few days passed and Hajime runs into Fuyuhiko carrying a strange envelope. Despite his inquire, Fuyuhiko told Hajime off and he proceeded to the restaurant to meet with everyone. Upon arriving, Mahiru asked Hajime to take some bread and milk to Nagito since she felt uncomfortable doing it herself. When he arrived, he was shocked to see the state Nagito was in, but was still creeped out by his demeanor. It was then that Nagito revealed that he knew of the new motive and asked why he and the other Ultimates were ignoring the threat. Hajime took this to heart and decided that he would play the game so as to understand what he may encounter soon enough. However, upon completing the game, Hajime was disgusted by the confusing ending and decided to dismiss the game entirely, going back to bed.

The next day, Kazuichi invited him to the supermarket where he explained that the girls were planning to go swimming together at the beach near the diner. Wanting to make it look like a coincidence, he instructed Hajime to be at the diner by 3:00 PM and wait for the girls to arrive. While waiting, they ran into Fuyuhiko who immediately dismissed them once Mikan and Ibuki showed up. While waiting to go to the beach, the group saw Hyoko running from the beach, seemingly in tears. Eventually Chiaki, Akane, Peko, and Sonia Nevermind arrived at the diner. Akane had to be nursed in the bathroom of the diner by Mikan who was worried about her wounds from her training with Nekomaru, leaving Hajime in an awkward position surrounded by the girls. He left just after Kazuichi, making the excuse that he probably needed help setting up the beach party. Approaching the beach, Kazuichi's screams were heard and the body discovery announcement was made once Hajime entered into the beachhouse, hoping that it was a lie, only to see something that reaffirmed that hope on the island was false, and that the only thing that was there was despair: Mahiru, the Ultimate Photographer's lifeless body lying on the beachhouse floor.

Deadly Life
Twilight Syndrome Murder Case is the true structure of this case and many times within Chapter 2 Deadly Life, Chiaki and Hajime seek the truth surrounding it. While uncovering the truth about the escape route after the murder, entering the shower room, he seeks the help of Akane who asks him for a piggyback ride in order to confirm the window was loose, much to his objections, he accepts but finds it increasingly awkward when she teases him about her 'panties' to which Hajime finds the whole experience pretty uncomfortable.

After, Chiaki and Hajime proceed to Jabberwock park, encountering Nagito who has been freed by Monomi and of course showing him the much needed hostility he deserves, they continue to the game, where the mystery of Twilight syndrome murder case is solved. Nagito helps Hajime collect together the real life characters portrayed in the game and they are then questioned at the airport, as always Hajime has never been truly thankful for Nagito's help but it's helpful nonetheless. When Monokuma allows Chiaki and Hajime access to Mahiru's cottage, they find, to Hajime's shock, incredibly realistic photos depicting real life events from Twilight Syndrome Murder Case.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
Daily Life
The next day after the second trial, Hajime's utter bewilderment to the unnerving and creepy vibe given off by Hiyoko's shrine to Mahiru, to which he begins to accept in kindness as the other characters convince him that it's a thoughtful gesture.

When Hajime enters the third island he notices a completely different ambiance and vibe, seeking to discover the truth behind these desolate islands once thriving with life. In the next scene at the Monokuma theatre, he opts out of watching Monokuma's homemade movie and instead offers to pay him millions for a cheap badge, to which Monokuma states paying him back once he leaves the island, giving him a little source of hope, however little.

In the Electric Avem Hajime discovers a computer revealing an Usami X File containing information on The Biggest, Most Awful, Most Tragic Event in Human History, to which he doesn't understand. Monokuma arrives and only taunts him instead of revealing any truth to it.

When moving on to the hospital, Hajime was also in shock to discover Fuyuhiko, along with the rest of them, thinking he wouldn't pull through. In reality, Hajime and the rest of the group still thought of Fuyuhiko as a friend just like them despite what he did. Mikan later decided to treat Fuyuhiko for the rest of the day.

Suprisingly on the next day just after he recovered from his wound, Fuyuhiko sliced his stomach in remorse. Hajime was also confused and shocked by the events but was surprised to see him making changes by coming to his own recovery party, organized by Ibuki. When she begins singing, he finds it just as horrifying despite saying in the beginning he was looking forward to her musical styling's. Then in the face off of Monokuma and Akane, in which Nekomaru saves her life, Hajime is completely in shock, at the thought of a sacrifice that bold.

The next day, when Nagito, Ibuki and Akane contract the Despair Disease for Monokuma's next motive, Hiyoko forces Hajime into staying at the hospital to look after those with the disease, including Mikan and Fuyuhiko. In which Mikan ends up sleeping on top of him while he's resting in the hospital break room and almost choking him accidentally, when Fuyuhiko comes in on them he begins teasing to which Hajime becomes embarrassed and flustered.

When he returns to his cottage Hajime has a nightmare about his days as a reserve course student and states 'wanting to be confident in himself' despite people's objections of him not being an ultimate, only a fanboy of Hope's Peak Academy. When he begins to wake up, Mikan is again suffocating him accidentally by sleeping on top of him. She forgot the reason she came to Hajime's cottage is to tell him that Nagito has recovered after he fell unconscious since he contracted the disease.

When Hajime visited Nagito along with Mikan, Nagito forcefully ordered Hajime to not visiting him again. It is hinted that actually Nagito wanted Hajime to stay since he was contracted with the "lying disease", saying things that contradicted with the truth. After Hajime told Mikan to rest, he noticed the video image of someone trying to hang themselves on the communication camera in the hospital lobby. He hurries to the "crime scene", 'Titty Typhoon' where he sees how events have transpired, he runs for help at the motel, obviously in massive shock.

Deadly Life
Later on returning to the scene of the crime, the door has been glued shut. Fuyuhiko, Chiaki, Mikan and Hajime all proceed to force it down, to which they're all shocked to find not only the hanging figure that belongs to Ibuki, Hiyoko also found dead tied up against the pillar too. Eventually they were able to lead to many discoveries, Nagito convinced Hajime to watch the movie, the Wizard of Monomi which had a specific key link to the case, of course he found it dreadful, he expresses buying the badge was a far better alternative much to Nagito's dismay. Chiaki helped Hajime discover the way in which the death of Ibuki actually occurred, before the case began.

After the third trial is finally closed, Monokuma expresses that Nekomaru is back, everyone including Hajime runs to the beach, obviously ecstatic at their friend's arrival, however to Hajime's dismay, it was no normal meet up as he wanted.

Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Electric Clocks?
Daily Life
After meeting back up in the restaurant, Nagito presumably as a test, seek to portray Hajime as the traitor because he couldn't remember his talent. This was probably his way of judging people mentally, through their reactions. When Monomi gained everyone access to the fourth island, they all rode the roller coaster to gain an important prize, a Future Foundation File of the Killing School life. Hajime tried to enter Monomi's house but she denied him, obviously to conceal the hidden diary which Nagito, Hajime, and Chiaki find later on.

They later took a train to the funhouse to gain another specific prize, however this was only a trap, which placed Hajime as a prime suspect for being the traitor by convincing them of getting into this situation. While searching Strawberry and Grape house, he was ditched by Kazuichi and was left with Nekomaru.

While both outcasts, Hajime and Nekomaru were able to discover the doors to Grape House were locked down tight until the button was pressed. Hajime stayed with the girls in Grape House so he wouldn't have to sleep in the lounge and he humbly chose the crummy room over the standard room as a considerate gesture.

Later, after the morning routine Monokuma Tai Chi, everyone begins feeling the effects of hunger and Hajime stated he'd rather starve than kill. Kazuichi ends up ranting that he is, in fact, the traitor for saying this to which this angers Hajime and Chiaki has to break up the fight. In a desperate attempt to escape, Hajime seeked a way out through the Final Dead Room, only to be stopped by Chiaki who worried for his safety and knows that no escape will come from winning. Hajime ended up getting some rest to conserve energy, only to awaken to a loud thud but very quickly falls back into unconsciousness, eventually waking in time for Monokuma Tai Chi where he 'opens the door to despair' and finds Nekomaru's dead body laying on the ground.

Deadly Life
There was an interesting turn of events in which Hajime and the girls no longer have access to Strawberry house and vice versa, with the boys unable to use the lift or the tower button to look at the crime scene, Kazuichi set on fixing it.

In the meantime, Hajime is the narrative viewpoint at Grape House while Nagito is the narrative viewpoint at Strawberry House. Chiaki convinced Hajime to use the Grape phone and Fuyuhiko explained the situation to him. Meanwhile, Nagito went to the Final Dead Room and eventually discovered the truth about the true form of the "ultimate weapon".

After completing the Life-Threatening Game, Nagito entered Grape House through a secret hatch leading to the Monokuma archive and surprised Chiaki and Hajime greatly. He also explain he played Russian Roulette using 5 bullets, this also shocked Hajime who stated he only had a 1/6 chance of survival, Nagito then told Hajime he was only a Reserve Course student from the reserve department which upsets him deeply. Constantly criticizing him for not being worthy of hope, which left Hajime in silent.

Chapter 5 - Smile at Hope in the Name of 
Daily Life
The next morning, Fuyuhiko wanted to know what Nagito meant in the trial when he said Hajime was part of the reserve department, when Hajime reluctantly explains that he has no talent, they are surprisingly not bothered and Sonia explain that what really matters most is friendship although Hajime is still worried and reacts angrily in his mind to the whole situation. When Monomi uncovers a new island, Hajime is still very bothered and quite uncomfortable at being a backup student. Kazuichi finds an e-mail in the computer inside the factory about the destruction of the world and refuses to believe it, convincing Hajime that it's nothing but a delusional story for a manga. Hajime becomes nervous when Nagito finds out about their plan to capture him, to which Nagito picks up on instantly. When the bomb goes off and Nagito leaves the Hotel Lobby, Hajime later expresses he's afraid of him and feels his madness running through his bones. In an attempt by Nagito to blow up the island and weed out the traitor, Hajime faced an entailment of fear of trying to find the bombs, stopping them and leading up to the point where he discovers Nagito's body for himself.

Deadly Life
Hajime is shocked that someone could kill Nagito in such a cruel way but accepts the fact anything can happen on this island, in one way or another. Hajime begins to suspect that the motive for Nagito's actions may be different from just weeding out the traitor but he isn't sure what, not yet sure he is in fact Ultimate Despair, the very thing Nagito is trying to destroy in the upcoming trial. Chiaki and Hajime later investigate his cottage. Hajime discovers poison and holds the bottle with a shaking hand, representing his fear, and Monomi's/Chiaki's logbook although he doesn't know it yet but finds it quite strange. He then discovers the student profile in Nagito's bookshelf, to his shock, he realizes Nagito lied and everyone's profile's were written inside. However, it didn't provide any clues because by this point, Nagito had ripped out the important information. He was hoping that him being a Reserve Student was just a lie along with the rest but it turns out to be the only truth, which angers Hajime.

Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
After witnessing his friends fall one by one, Hajime vowed to stay alive. This conviction was made even stronger as Nagito released a time-locked video that basically stated his intentions. 

Although Hajime and the remnants of the still-unaware "former" members of Ultimate Despair were led through a series of verbal traps disguised as "truth exposes", that nearly played into Alter Ego Junko's hands, Hajime was eventually able to expose Alter Ego Junko with help arriving from unlikely sources. However, in the process, they had to come to terms with the fact that they were members of a terrible organization that brought about The Tragedy, especially Hajime, who realized that he was "Izuru Kamukura" of the Hope Cultivation Project - the person who murdered the entire Student Council, and a major conduit for the Tragedy. The overload of information meant that Alter Ego Junko was constantly on the upper hand of a battle to break their minds.

At the conclusion of a finale which culminated in three former participants entering the fray to save the remaining students, Hajime and a regenerated Chiaki - revealed to be a student observer, one of two AIs responsible for ensuring the smooth running of the Neo World Program - defeated Alter Ego Junko in a final Panic Talk Action which brought the remaining students to their senses, allowing him to convince his fellow students to go along with Makoto Naegi's suggestion to initiate a Forced Shutdown of the Program.

The Force Shutdown allowed Usami to emerge and eventually erase Alter Ego Junko from the Neo World Program.

Afterward, the world around Hajime and co. began to glitch out, but he was able to clear his lingering regrets with Chiaki - specifically, not thanking her - before the Neo World Program shut down entirely.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
After the defeat of Alter Ego Junko, Hajime and former Ultimate Despair members opted to stay on the Jabberwock Island (possibly in hopes that they could do something to help their comatose friends), acknowledging his past but choosing to live on as Hajime Hinata.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
An AI took the form of Hajime with red eyes, and labeled itself "The World Destoryer". Having the ability to shoot bullets from his fingertips, it set about trying to destroy the fake world that had been created by the Neo World Program for the comatose Nagito. After Nagito awakened, Hajime welcomed his friend back and informed him that everyone was awake and fine.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 06 - No Man is an Island 
Hajime is shown on Jabberwock Island. seeing approaching Future Foundation peacekeepers, ready to attack under Kyosuke Munakata's orders. However, Izuru appears to be active in some form in his mind, as he emotionlessly expresses his boredom.

Episode 12 - It is Always Darkest 
Hajime is briefly shown in the post-s walking through a doorway, away from the dead brainwashed rescue squad members scattered at his feet that he defeated.

Hope Arc- The Academy of Hope and Students of 
At some point after the end of the Killing School Trip, the Class 77-B were awakened by Hajime, whose personality had blended with Izuru Kamukura's talents due to his experiences in the Neo World Program. Purged of Junko's brainwashing, the now-former Remnants of Despair joined Hajime on a ship that took them to the ruins the Future Foundation's off-shore facility, where Ryota Mitarai was attempting to broadcast a "Hope Video" to brainwash the world into never feeling despair again.

Led by Hajime, the Class 77-B engaged Ryota's army of brainwashed Future Foundation soldiers, Former Super High School Level Elite Task Force members and Monobeasts in an attempt to reach the broadcasting tower where Ryota was situated. Hajime began is ascent up a slope leading to the broadcasting studio but is met with opposition, a multitude of Former Super High School Level Elite Task Force squad members. He commanded them to stand aside, a loud crash is then heard by Ryota, Hajime breaking through into the studio, began to walk toward him.

Hajime was able to convince Ryota that hope does not come about by force, that he wasn't as strong either which is why he has regrets even now. The rest of the Class 77-B walk in, standing behind Hajime. He then explained that Chiaki's legacy is why they are standing where they are now and convince him that they'd rather atone for their past sins even if they weren't to be forgiven. Hajime was able to persuade Ryota to join them, so that they may atone for everything that happened, together. Ryota abandoned his plan and broke down in tears as a result, Hajime and the rest of the class surrounded him in support.

Hajime and his classmates left the broadcasting studio and continued down the sloping platform, Hajime nodding gratefully at Makoto with respect, as Makoto responds by also nodding in return.

Shortly afterwards, Hajime and the rest of the Former Remnants of Despair shoulder the blame for the Final Killing Game in a broadcast to the Future Foundation, presenting themselves in their despair persona and relieving the organization of any wrongdoing.

Chiaki A.I. appeared to Hajime as a live depiction of his memory upon the boat leaving for Jabberwock island. Clutching Usami in her arms, she recalled the time Hajime first entered the Neo World Program, when an A.I. was created to monitor them. She explained that it was everyone's desire to see her once more that brought her into the program, as a depiction of their memories. She acknowledged she is not the same Chiaki but still pointed out that the class were able to see her again. She ended by expressing they all won a miracle together, Hajime, in response, stated that an ending like that wasn't so bad. Chiaki A.I. agreed, pointing out that she fought and risked her life for this. Hajime and her both stared upon the rising sun, Chiaki A.I. stating they can all make their future together, she turned to Hajime and smiled once more. Nagito then called Hajime over so he wouldn't miss out on Teruteru's cooking, Chiaki A.I. faded away as Hajime left his position.

Aoi Asahina and Yasuhiro Hagakure wave off Hajime and his classmates as the boat began its journey back to Jabberwock island.

Danganronpa V3: Killing 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Hajime appears alongside Yasuhiro and Makoto in the game's demo, with Hajime and Makoto working as Kaede Akamatsu's upper classmates, senior "protagonists" and major helpers.

However, the ending majorly implies that they actually worked together with Monokuma and appear to be just actors. They all compliment each other for doing good work, leave the set and mention working together in the future.

Ultimate Talent Development 
In the non-canon bonus mode, Hajime is a reserve course student of Hope's Peak Academy who plans to participate in the Izuru Kamukura Project in order to become talented. However, after playing video games with Chiaki and listening to her and other students' advice, he ultimately chooses not to join the project as he realized that being talented isn't the goal. This allows him to continue his friendship with Chiaki and he also became very good friends with her classmates.

However, the bonus mode also includes a course with Izuru as the playable character. While Chiaki still tried to talk to him and wants to play games with him, there was no mention of him being formerly Hajime, leaving the situation quite ambiguous. Furthermore, Monomi was seen giving Hajime wise encouragement, while in Izuru's case only Usami works as his "supervisor" of sort.


Alternate Persona:
Izuru Kamukura 
After choosing to participate in the Izuru Kamukura project, Hajime had no idea that the procedure would transform him into another person. During the project, Hajime's memories and personality were forcefully erased, in the process of making him into a person whose specialty is talent itself. Once the project was completed, Hajime's personality is already taken over by Izuru's.

As Izuru, Hajime had no recollection or knowledge of his former self. However, in the Neo World Program, the Future Foundation was able to give him back his memories, successfully turning him back into his old self. Once the program was shut down and he awakes from his coma, Hajime lived as one with Izuru, their two personalities merging and coexisting.

Class 77-B:
Love Interest:
Chiaki Nanami 
Real-Life Version
Chiaki was Hajime's closest friend in Hope's Peak Academy. One of the reasons he participated in the Izuru Kamukura Project was to be worthy of her.

The two first met at a water fountain near the school, in a scene Kodaka described as being pleased with how beautiful it turned out to be,when Chiaki bumped into Hajime while playing a game. Since then, the two continued to meet with each other and play games after school at the same place. It is implied that the two of them had romantic feelings for each other, as they often blush when coming in contact with each other.

Chiaki once comforted Hajime after he felt upset about not having a talent. She told him that there's more to life than talent and that making memories with people is more important. Her words comforted him, though his obsession with having a talent didn't lessen.

Before the Izuru Kamukura project, Hajime finds Chiaki by the water fountain, and she invites him to play a game with her. Hajime refuses and says he has to be somewhere. Before leaving, Hajime tells Chiaki that she's more than just an Ultimate Gamer, and tells her to make many memories at Hope's Peak. While walking away from Chiaki, Hajime thinks to himself how one of the reasons he decided to participate in the project was because of his desire to show Chiaki he has a talent. He thought of her while he was being transformed into Izuru Kamukura, and decides to become a version of himself that he can be proud of around Chiaki.

Upon his transformation, Hajime forgot all his memories with Chiaki. As a result, Izuru could not recognize Chiaki, although he confronted her after her execution. After Chiaki dies, Izuru is seen shedding tears despite not knowing who she was, suggesting that a part of Hajime remains in Izuru.

After awakening from the Neo World Program, Hajime, when trying to persuade Ryota Mitarai that hope and despair are both essential, he remembers Chiaki, showing great sadness over her death. While recalling memories of her, Hajime claims that he would never forget her, nor would he want to, and forever thought of her as precious to him. He appears to keep her hairpin with him as a memento, just like he did as Izuru.

In Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Chiaki has a similar relationship with Hajime like she did in Danganronpa 3, with her playing different video games with him and even giving him the same advice about talent not being the goal. Hajime considered her a very reliable class rep, though Chiaki believed that Hajime can be very reliable and close with the aforementioned class as well (seemingly foreshadowing the fact that Hajime much later takes the leader role among the class). In their third year, she extended him an invitation to her class's Christmas party, and he accepts. With their graduation gets closer, Hajime asks her if she's free on New Year's, and explains that his friends are planning a party because it will also be Hajime's birthday. Chiaki appears a bit surprised that she can come too, but she then eagerly agrees and offers to extend the invitation to the rest of her class.


AI Version
Hajime is shown to be close to the AI version of Chiaki over the course of the story. Hajime and Chiaki are frequently shown to be together in cutscenes and events. Their relationship progresses to a point where they can understand each other's expressions and wishes, even without the other speaking. However, it took him some time to warm up to her, as in Chapter 2, he thought of her behavior as "annoying."

Chiaki prevented Hajime from going to the Final Dead Room when he was stressed out because everyone suspected him to be the traitor, and she also assisted him during trials and investigations. It was briefly indicated before the all-girls beach party in Chapter 2 that he was attracted to Chiaki in her swimsuit. It is especially prevalent in Chapter 4 that the two are considerably close throughout most of the chapter.

During the fifth trial, Hajime was the most devastated among the group of remaining students when he found out that Chiaki was the "traitor" and was executed. It was also Chiaki who begged for Hajime to both claim and prove she was this alleged traitor, trusting his ability to see past the words and lies Monokuma created and into the hope she sees in him.

In Chapter 6, Chiaki was the one who guided Hajime to see the reality that whether or not he had a talent was irrelevant. It was due to her support and encouragement that he was finally able to overcome despair. Before she was shut down along with the program, he thanked her for her help and promised never to forget her.

Throughout her Free Time Events, it is somewhat implied that Hajime and Chiaki's relationship extends beyond the regular friendship Hajime and the others hold to a deep, everlasting friendship. The talks the two have progressed from mere small talk to friendlier and playful yet also serious and consoling (usually from Chiaki to Hajime). There are also romantic connotations, such as both blushing when she trips and he catches her and her complimenting him on being well-built.

When Chiaki mysteriously reappears to Hajime, it is shown that when he refuted everyone's statements in the final Endless Debate, everyone saw a vision of the closest person to them, further showing Chiaki is the closest person to Hajime. Hajime insists on her person-ness, even after discovering her nature as an AI. When Hajime finally gets to tell her "Thank you," which is, in turn, responded in kind, it is implied that both their words carry a deeper meaning.

When the battle of hope and despair ends, and Hajime and the 77th Class get on a ship, Hajime seemingly sees an illusion of her talking to him, smiling as it tells him to move towards the future. However, it's heavily implied that Hajime isn't fully aware of her presence, as he doesn't directly speak with nor look at her, seemingly speaking to himself with the hope she taught him and then walking past her as she watches over him with a smile.

Friends:
Nagito Komaeda 
Nagito was the first student Hajime encountered on the island. He was the only one to stay with unconscious Hajime and escorted him to introduce himself to the other students. He also helped Hajime during most investigations. Though sometimes annoyed by Nagito, Hajime felt more relaxed around the other boy and believed that he's a kind person, though maybe not the most reliable.

After learning about Nagito's twisted way of thinking, Hajime felt betrayed and scorned. He felt that Nagito was very dangerous, only wanted to make others suffer and could trick him again if they talked too much. He felt that he didn't understand his way of thinking at all. However, during his free-time events, Hajime kept attempting to understand Nagito's mindset and continued to talk with him. There are also several moments in the main game where Hajime comes very close to understanding Nagito's thinking, but then abandons the thought as he feels he's just over-thinking. In the end, it was Hajime's understanding of Nagito that ultimately thwarted his plan in Chapter 5.

According to Nagito, Hajime was the first person in his life to take an actual interest in him. This is further proven by how he questions himself why he worries about someone like Nagito during the despair disease of Chapter 3. One of Nagito's main reasons for being interested in Hajime is that he claims they're similar, though Hajime denies this. This is also mentioned in the Super Danganronpa 2 Art Book, as in Hajime's relationship chart, Nagito states how he and Hajime are alike and have similarities.However, after learning that Hajime is a reserve course student, Nagito turned hostile towards him, seemingly projecting some of the traits he hates about himself into Hajime. Even though he acted harsh and bitter towards him, in the dialogue directly preceding the Chapter 4 trial he states that he still cares about Hajime, though he doesn't understand why. If Hajime tries to spend time with Nagito during Chapter 5, when Nagito is unbeknownst to him planning his own murder, Nagito suddenly doesn't appear hostile at all at the moment and with a smile he tells Hajime that he's happy he's asking someone like him, but he is busy at the moment. Somewhat wistfully, he tells Hajime not to worry about him and have fun spending time with the others. After his death, he mentions in his recording that he shouldn't have been so hard on Hajime.

After learning about Nagito's backstory and illnesses in his free-time events, Hajime feels bad for him and is willing to forgive him. However, Nagito then says that it was all just lies, which shocks Hajime a bit. More confused than angry, Hajime leaves deep in thought and believes that at least some of Nagito's words were true. He expresses curiosity to see what Nagito would do if he one day achieved the hope he claims to be pining after, saying that he felt a 'strange connection' to him, though his confusion and uncertainty of him remain; however this leads to his wishing to understand Nagito in order to protect everyone else on the island from the malice he senses from Nagito.

In Island Mode, Hajime spends time with Nagito, who is now much more harmless. However, Nagito's strange way of thinking still confuses and creeps Hajime out at the times. In the ending, Nagito hesitantly asks for Hajime's friendship and Hajime accepts it without much consideration, though he noticed that the wording seemed to start as a love confession and expected more. Nagito reveals that his way of thinking has changed for the better after his time with Hajime. Thanks to that, Hajime feels that they can eventually reach an understanding.

As shown in Danganronpa 2.5, Hajime wished to wake up Nagito from his coma and was worried of him. After Nagito woke up, the two rejoined in friendly terms. At first, he assumed Hajime was Izuru, but then corrected himself by saying he must be Hajime. Hajime helped him up in the way that resembles their first meeting inside the program. Nagito says he believed in Hajime to wake him up and later he takes Hajime's hand as the class moves aboard, planning to go towards hope.

Later in Danganronpa 3 - Hope Arc, Hajime and Nagito can be seen smiling and eating together on the boat. Even though Hajime earlier explained that he is now both Hajime and Izuru, Nagito continues to call him Hajime. Because of all they have been through, Hajime finally comes to an understanding with Nagito.

In an Otomedia poster, which was released after the anime, Nagito is seen giving Hajime a small bag of fortune cookies as a gift while they are on the ship, presumably after the anime's story. Hajime appears flattered as he takes the gift, smiling in a slightly abashed manner. In the magazine's interview, Nagito is asked what autumn food reminds him of Hajime. He answers a "chestnut in its burr", comparing it to Hajime's hair, but after being told it's too normal of an answer, he goes on to explain that to properly eat one you have to go through a lot of work. He states that "Not being straightforward… it’s like Hinata-kun, right?". In turn, Hajime answers that Nagito reminds him of "the rice of a new crop" (referring to rice freshly harvested during the fall season) because of Nagito's hair's color. He also mentions that due to Nagito's "poor grip on reality", it's difficult to appoint him to a food with distinct taste.

Nagito has also more or less jokingly compared Hajime to a tsundere character more than once due to his occasionally annoyed mood in his company. In Danganronpa 2, during his Free Time Events, he suggests Hajime's unknown talent could be "tsuntsun hair", referring to both his aloof personality and spiky hair. This was translated as "Ultimate Spiky Hair" in the localization, and while it's not incorrect, it loses the additional joke regarding Hajime's personality. Nagito laughs and clearly finds his joke very funny, but Hajime annoyingly answers that it isn't even a talent. Nagito later called him "tsuntsun hair" again in the Danganronpa 3 related magazine interview.

In the non-canonical Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Hajime Hinata, Nagito seemingly dislikes Hajime at first and acted harsh and occasionally condescending towards him due to him being a reserve course student. He assumed that Hajime spent time with the Ultimates only to suck up to them and feel better about himself, which obviously irritated Hajime. However, Nagito claimed he doesn't actually dislike Hajime, and appeared reluctantly interested in spending time with him. The two had a slight argument after Hajime came to play basketball with the Ultimates, which left Nagito silent in thought and he then decided to cheer for all the players though he felt conflicted about it (in the official English localization, this was incorrectly translated as him cheering for almost everyone). Nagito's attitude slowly changes when he realizes that Hajime genuinely wants to spend time with him, though he cannot comprehend why anyone would want that. In three years, they become friends and Nagito tells Hajime about his luck and how it has affected his life. During their last Christmas in school, Nagito and Hajime talk alone while the other students are celebrating. Hajime reminds the other boy that the class will definitely keep in touch and see each other again, though Nagito thinks nobody would invite him. Hajime tells him that Chiaki would and he just has to accept her invitation. Nagito asks why Hajime cares about him and still hasn't lost interest in someone like him. Hajime explains that he still doesn't understand Nagito and he refuses to leave it like that. He formally asks Nagito to be his friend and the two shake hands, though Nagito seems to want to hold his hand longer. Nagito wonders if it's going to change anything, but Hajime tells him that maybe like this they could really change something and understand each other some day.

Kazuichi Soda 
Hajime is a close friend of Kazuichi's. Kazuichi latches onto Hajime, calling him his "soul friend". Hajime is sometimes annoyed by the other boy.

Throughout their friendship, a brief break up ensues when he blames Hajime for "leading them" into Monokuma's trap and ends up turning to Nagito instead. They later make up however.

Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu 
The two seem to be on good terms with each other after the events of Chapter 2, when Fuyuhiko is intent on changing himself. They are also willing to stay and focus on their friends that catch despair disease in chapter 3. Though initially, Fuyuhiko did not attempt to form a friendship with Hajime, their relationship changes relatively in the end.

Fuyuhiko considered Hajime as the "Ultimate Counselor" due to his nature that give the students confidence to endure everything that they have. In his last Free Time Events, the two of them did a sakazuki, a Japanese ritual of exchanging cups to symbolize sworn brothers and pledge loyalty.

Mikan Tsumiki 
Mikan seems to have formed a liking for Hajime as he is the first person (on the Island) to have gone up to her and spoke to her, not wishing to bully her but only to have a casual conversation. Though nervous and stuttering at first, she gradually lightens up, even asking him to come back and talk to her again.

Hajime is also the first person she admits to that she is glad that there is nobody to stomp on her and abuse her on the island. Mikan also chases Hajime around with a syringe a few times, wanting to give him an injection, and was found sleeping on him several times in Chapter 3. In the third trial, she uses him to give herself an alibi in the morning when they first discover the corpse.

In Chapter 3, when Hajime accuses Mikan of killing Ibuki and Hiyoko, she becomes furious, and obviously denies this. This act upsets Hajime, who doesn't want to believe she's the culprit as much the others, who are in shock at his accusation. Despite this, Hajime reluctantly shows evidence that points to her being the murderer. He tells Mikan to give it up, so he can still believe in her in the end. But Mikan's personality has already changed, and she was executed, leaving nothing but her malice for Hajime and the others.

In her free-time events, when Mikan explains her reasons for becoming a nurse, Hajime is disturbed and is afraid to show any signs of weakness or sickness around her. However, he also feels bad for her and believes that she is not to be blamed for the way she is now.

During the events of Island Mode, Mikan is very happy to be Hajime's friend and has a clear romantic interest in him. In her ending, she is even ready to go as far as to cripple him in some way so that they would be together forever. However, Hajime proposes to her instead, causing her to declare that she would become his own private nurse and take care of him forever.

Peko Pekoyama 
During her Free Times Events, Hajime helps Peko to learn how to smile again.

Despite not sharing a close relationship with her in the main story, he interestingly has a romantic interest in her in the Free Time Events, much more straightforward than with any other character. Coincidentally, Peko is also the only character who is outright confirmed to definitely not have feelings for him, only liking him as a friend. Hajime thought he might be in love with Peko and assumed she liked him back, but in reality she is in love with Fuyuhiko and wishes for Hajime's advice. Though he's hurt to not have his feelings responded, Hajime wants to support Peko as a friend.

Ibuki Mioda 
Ibuki and Hajime seem to be good friends, and they bond during club activities that Ibuki comes up with during her Free Time Events. Also during her Free Time Events, Ibuki has been trying to help Hajime remember his talent. She insists that it should've been obvious what she was trying to do, but Hajime claims that he didn't even realize it, and was touched that she was trying to help him.

Ibuki often pokes fun at Hajime, saying that he has developed a crush on her or that he is sometimes looking for an excuse to be alone with her. Ibuki also gave Hajime some advice that even when people are constantly changing, either physically or otherwise, that they are always going to be their true selves and she made Hajime promise her that he will never give up on trying to find out his true self. In Hajime's official relationship chart, Ibuki states she wants him to be the drummer in her band, and insists that the two are in a band, even teaching him lessons. However, according to Hajime, she only taught him how to use a loudspeaker.

Akane Owari 
Hajime and Akane do not interact much in the main story, though they have a fairly decent relationship and he does worry about her when she is stricken with the Despair Disease. They eventually become close during her Free Time Events; Hajime is rather horrified to hear of the poverty and implied sexual abuse Akane went through growing up, especially her nonchalance towards it. Though Akane has difficulty remembering his name, she worries about him not eating enough, in a similar way to how she worried about her younger siblings. He's annoyed by her forgetfulness and mentions thinking that she's a bit crazy, but he does envy her cheery attitude. During her final Free Time Events, she recalls his name correctly and accepts his advice about accepting and overcoming weakness rather than denying it.

Nekomaru Nidai 
Nekomaru's Island Mode relationship differs from that of his real-life relationship with Hajime. During Nekomaru's Island Mode ending, he believes there is something inside Hajime, but he is unsure what it is. The correct answer is "hope", but if Hajime suggests "love", Nekomaru become surprised and then begins to consider that his feelings for Hajime are romantic. If Hajime chooses a bad option during an event Nekomaru will say: "Hmmm… That date wasn’t exciting at all… A detailed plan produces maximum results in both dating and training. You won’t make me fall for you if you act like this! Bye now!" showing that his feelings for Hajime appear to be on a romantic level.

Teruteru Hanamura 
Like nearly everyone else, Hajime is annoyed by Teruteru's pervertedness but enjoys his cooking.

Gundham Tanaka 
At one point, Gundham is implied to have tried to follow Hajime and the rest of the students, though when discovered, he denied it and went away. Hajime and Gundham become rather good friends through Free-Time Events, and in his final FTE (which takes place in the Strawberry House), Gundham makes Hajime sign a contract via handshake and declares that with the contract, Hajime will not be permitted to die without exclusive permission from Gundham Tanaka himself. Hajime thinks to himself that he would like to return that promise back to Gundham, though he figured that Gundham might get angry instead. Comically, their handshake ends in a mutual hand-squeezing to the death.

Hiyoko Saionji 
Hajime was curious of how she can be a high school student based on her height and appearance. Later during the game in Chapter 1, Hajime usually make remarks on Hiyoko in his inner thoughts and said that she has an Ultimate Bad Attitude. Hajime misjudged Hiyoko the first he introduced himself to Hiyoko in the Killing School Trip. He thinks that Hiyoko would be perfect to stand right next to flowers if she didn't have a rotten personality. He later warms up to Hiyoko and forms a sibling-like bond with her almost like the one she has with Mahiru. When Hiyoko tells him that most people fall asleep while watching her shows, Hajime told her he would stay awake for her during the show.

Mahiru Koizumi 
While it was never showed in the main storyline, but in her Free Time Events, it's implied that Mahiru has romantic feelings towards Hajime. When Mahiru took a candid photograph of him, Mahiru didn't want to delete it even though Hajime told her to delete it. After revealing that she likes the candid of him, Mahiru blushed and ran away, saying that she needs to go somewhere.

In her last Free Time Events, Mahiru asked Hajime to take a picture of her so she can see how Hajime saw her. She said that she liked Hajime's shot as much as her mother pictures she did. Mahiru also added that she would give him her old camera.

In her Island Mode's ending, Mahiru thanked Hajime as she was able to find herself. It was the reason why she will hand him her old camera in appreciation and due to liking Hajime.

Sonia Nevermind 
Sonia shown to be friendly with Hajime and took a liking of him during the course of Killing School Trip. In her Free time Events, she believed he was a hero from prophecy that would bring happiness to her land and wanted him to rule the Kingdom of Novoselic together after they escaped from the island.

Hope's Peak Staff:
Chisa Yukizome 
Hajime first met Chisa when she came to get Chiaki to attend class. When Chisa came to him to ask him about the Reserve course, he told her about how he admired Hope's Peak Academy and why he enrolled himself in the Reserve Course. When he wondered why Chisa is concerned about a lowly Reserve Course student like himself, Chisa told him not to call himself lowly and that everything begins with believing in yourself.

Class 78th:
Makoto Naegi 
Makoto put Izuru and the other Remnants of Despair in the Neo World Program. After waking up from the program, Izuru who successfully restored his previous identity, Hajime, brought his classmates to help Makoto to prevent Ryota from using his brainwashing video. Hajime is very thankful to Makoto, because of his hope his classmates return to their original personalities before being brainwashed by Junko.


DR2ExtraDR3DRV3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"It was a day that felt...truly significant. And when that long-awaited day finally came, I felt proud in away I can't really put into words. I felt like...I had just become a part of something greater than myself. Does that make sense? Actually, that's exactly what it was like...I was truly in a dream."
"I'm not so special that I *have* to introduce myself, and formalities are always a little embarrassing... Well, this *is* what's expected... I guess that's how I should think about it. My name is Hajime Hinata. There's only one reason I came to Hope's Peak Academy... Because I admired Hope's Peak Academy. To me, attending Hope's Peak Academy is like being a celebrity or a superhero. In fact, instead of calling it admiration, it's more like...it's always been a dream of mine. That's why, to feel like a member of society, to become someone I can be proud of, I always wanted to..."
"At any rate, if this is a nightmare, I have no idea if it's even started yet... Sheesh, what kind of nightmare is that...?"
"But...if we weren't in situation like this, I'd probably be enjoying some lazy sunbathing myself. "If" being the key word."
"His build and that overwhelming aura of refinement just pushes people away... Is this what it means to be the Ultimate Affluent Progeny...?"
"The strange thing about genuine surprise is that when it happens, your voice won't let you express it. The sudden appearance of a monster might be normal in anime and video games... And that's precisely why...I couldn't grasp the reality of this situation... I couldn't even feel fear. All I could do was stand aghast."
"Once you're suspicious of something, you'll start to be suspicious of everything... Even of yourself. That's why it felt so hopeless."
"That day became a day unlike any other... A day which held a more significant meaning. It was a special day... A very meaningful day full of despair. That was the beginning. The killing school trip had begun, and this tropical island was the stage."
Chapter 1:

"There was no way I could believe that this was now my reality. Even so...this was undeniably real. There was no way I could believe that this was now my reality. No matter how much I didn't want to believe it, the moment I experienced and felt it for myself... It became undeniably real. This...is a reality that could not be more different from my usual daily life. School, studying, exams, job hunting, going for walks, going to school, riding the train, lectures... That kind of daily life...is no longer mine. And it led straight on to the first night. A night so beautiful it enchanted me... And yet, my heart was horribly upset. That kind of beauty was definitely...far different than my usual daily life."
"I didn't want to see anyone anymore. I just wanted to be alone forever... I have nobody I can trust... Because, even if I wanted to trust them...I don't know anything about them yet. The only person I can trust is myself... No, even I don't believe that."
"I wasn't tired or anything, but...I just wanted to sleep, if only for a short while. I wanted to put an end to it all. And if, by chance, I managed to wake up the next day... It would be awesome if I was back to my normal life."
"Wherever I go...there are surveillance cameras all over the place. Whoever's controlling Monokuma must be monitoring us with these cameras, too... It pisses me off to think I'm being watched by a lunatic... But there's nothing I can do about it."
"I don't get it. In this tense situation, we all need to be a lot more cautious... And yet, I'm relieved everyone is in such high spirits. It's strange, but...I feel like I can rely on them. This...must be what it means to have the confidence of an Ultimate... Then...what am I? Am I...confident enough to call myself one of them?"
"I don't really get it, but...I guess this guy isn't just some overconfident, narcissistic jerk after all. Despite our situation, he's mysteriously calm. He might just be a reliable person after all..."
"Friends, huh? Until now, I never really thought about friendship. That sort of thing seemed embarrassing. I never would have thought about it in this situation... No, actually, it's more like... *because* of this situation..."
"Believe in your friends, huh... It'd be difficult to believe in them right away, but it'd be nice if it could happen a little at a time... Huh. If I'm starting to think like that, doesn't that show I'm making good progress?"
"Now then, there's no reason to hole up in my room and stare blankly into space. Since there's time...it'd be a great idea if I went ahead and talked to everyone."
"When I first came to this island, watching everyone have fun was so frustrating... But now, it feels reassuring. We're actually "friends" who fight together... Friends who've developed a sense of unity..."
"This hopeless reality... That's the real enemy we need to fight... If I'm going to survive this... ...then I have to fight it."
"Finding out who the killer is... That's our only hope for survival... Something like this...is hope...? Even so...I still gotta do it."
"That's right...I need to do it... If we're gonna survive this, we need to do it. ...I have to prepare myself for the worst."
"It's not just for yourself! We have to do it to protect all of us! Stop blaming yourself... Nothing good will come of it..."
"Byakuya Togami, the Ultimate Affluent Progeny... He was the kind of guy who said a lot of hurtful things... ...but he tried his best to lead everyone. The only thing I can do right now... ...for Byakuya's sake... ...is to uncover the truth behind his death!"
"Well, if there's no reason, then there's no meaning..."
"It's not like we're doing this because we want to!"
"Just because it's cruel doesn't mean you can just keep crying like that. Crying won't solve anything... We have to do this no matter what, dammit!"
"You're right... There's nowhere for us to run... We need to do it..."
"It looks like everyone knows...even if we try to resist, it won't change a thing..."
"The person who did it...is one of us? I can't believe it... There's no way I can believe it... But...if it's really true... We need to find out, by any means possible... Because...that's our only option. There is no way for us to survive unless we sacrifice the killer... And so... ...this life-threatening trial billowing with hope and despair... ...has begun."
"No... Thinking about "if" is a waste of time. We have to do this...no matter what!"
"The darkness in his eyes shone brightly, as if layers upon layers of darkness were folding into each other... ...As if hope and despair had been crudely mixed together."
"The truth is beyond our sight... No, that can't be it. There should be some way to find out what happened in the dark!"
"I just thought I knew him. But this whole time, I didn't know anything about this guy. I didn't know...his true character. It's as simple as that. But...now's not the time for me to dwell on that. We need to find Byakuya's killer...by any means possible. Because if we don't... We... We will die here...!"
"Dammit! There's no way I'm going to lose against someone like him!"
"That's right...if we don't do that, we can't end this no matter how much time passes. So...we need to do it!"
"He...believed it more than anybody else here. That's why...he kept denying it... Because he believed it, he needed to deny it..."
"Let's definitely work together and leave this island!"
""Do our best..." We kept using that phrase over and over again. Even though we knew they were just...cheap, meaningless, empty words... Regardless...we still said it. And we continued to say it over and over again without stopping."
"This sky is connected to anywhere, even to my daily life. That's why...I might be able to go home. That's right...I'm definitely going to go home."
Chapter 2:

"The air's....suddenly not so tense anymore... Well, I guess it's better than being down forever... If I was all by myself...I probably wouldn't have been able to put my feelings aside and move on like this... I guess...I have these guys to thank..."
"I'll find out about the Hanamura Diner... And when I do, I'll make sure I let you know...!"
"I don't know what you're thinking, but...we're all in this situation together. You're not the only one stuck on this island... We all have to work together."
"Training that resembles an actual fight might be fun, but just be careful not to get hurt, both of you."
"Running away as soon as things get inconvenient... That's even more suspicious." (About Monomi)
"We need to do our best to make sure there aren't any more incidents...!"
"So he wanted someone to back him up so he could step forward... I sort of understand how he feels..."
"Is doing nothing at all correct...? Or is trying to stop it from happening while being aware of the danger correct...? In this messed up world... There's no way I can know what's right..."
"Well, you know...values vary from person to person."
"Unlike his smile, his words carried a certain heaviness... As if a black poison was falling from his mouth every time he spoke, filling his surroundings with darkness... An illusion, but one I couldn't help feeling at that moment."
"Running away from your problems isn't a solution. I'm just putting it off..."
"It's not like I believe what Nagito said. It's just not a good idea to leave it alone..."
"If...this was all a dream... When did I...when did I begin dreaming? If this is reality... Why is Mahiru on the floor covered in blood? I...couldn't understand anything that was in front of me... And I couldn't believe in anything."
"Mahiru Koizumi, the Ultimate Photographer... She had an unyielding force of personality, but she was actually very good at taking care of people... And...she was always straightforward. Toward us and toward herself, she was always facing forward... ...She was that kind of person. Why her...? Why Mahiru...why... Wh-Why did this happen to her!?"
"Everyone feels the same. But we can't do anything else except do it... A-And... There's no way we can just ignore...the reason Mahiru was killed."
"That's right...we have to do it. It's the only way. I don't want to do this...but that's more the reason... for us to finish this... ...I'm the only one who can do this!"
"...No, now's not the time to feel regret. I need to focus on doing as much as I can right now. And then...I'm going to find out the truth behind Mahiru's death. That's the only way...the rest of us can survive."
"That...it's not just Chiaki... There's no way anyone would forgive something like this."
"The more I talk to him, the creepier he gets... The more I listen to him, the more I don't understand him... If he didn't exist, this situation would be a lot easier to deal with..."
"At the trial field where Monokuma is waiting... I have to make my case there..."
"That's right...I can only... Moving forward is the only option!"
"But we can't just stand around all day."
"Throughout that drop, I was fluctuating between feeling hope and despair. As if my heart was a rotten fruit, swelling in the sun before it finally goes "squish"."
"It's starting...the Class Trial is starting... Mahiru Koizumi, the Ultimate Photographer... She had an unyielding force of personality, but she was actually very good at taking care of people... Most importantly...she was always straightforward. The person that killed her... ...is among us? I don't want to believe it. I don't want to believe it. I don't want to believe it but... Regardless, we need to find the answer. It doesn't matter if you believe it or not. Because...it's the only way. Aside from finding out who the killer is, there is no other way... ...for us to survive... And so... ...this life-threatening trial billowing with hope and despair... ...has begun."
"I...don't really want to say it myself but...I need to move the conversation forward..."
"An unconventional weapon...that also appeared in the game... If we're told we can't advance as long as we don't make that clear... ...Then I have to do it. I'll do it."
"Let's stop... Believing every little thing Nagito says is a waste of time."
"The bitter truth... That may be true but... ...Even so, we can't just stand around here all day. Even if what lies ahead is a cruel ending, the only thing we can do is move forward. because...unless we reveal who among us is Mahiru's true killer... There's...no way we'll survive."
"If I just focus and think about it, I'm sure I'll be able to find the answer. All right, I'm going to do it!"
"I don't want anyone else...to be sacrifice."
"...And so, the Class Trial ended. But we still can't see the real ending that we really want yet... When that finally arrives... What will have happened to us by then...? No matter where I look... No matter what possibilities I look for... I can't see our future, not even a speck. As if we were in a boat, floating unreliably in a vast, dark sea... We were just left there. Alone. Only one word could explain our situation. Despair. ...We couldn't find a more suitable word than that."
Chapter 3:

"My body feels terribly burdened... But...that worry ends here. There's no way I can just lay here and do nothing. ...That's right, just do it."
"Yeah, I couldn't really stay put and do nothing."
"Gaming as usual... No, I have a slight feeling she's deliberately concentrating on her game. Like she's trying to keep her sadness from showing by being completely focused in gaming... ...Or is it just me?"
"However...we didn't realize just how short-lived this peace would be. Even though we were finally bonding, a situation was brewing, like a huge fracture running between us all... And that...would be the trigger for a truly horrible and atrocious incident... Not just for me...but for every single one of us... ...We just hadn't realized it yet."
"A new island, huh... Maybe now we'll finally find it. A way to get off this island and go home... No...that's the only thing we have! That's our one and only hope!"
"Peko... You...weren't a tool at all. But you didn't realize it until it was too late..."
"Judging someone for their crimes... No one has the right to do that... That's exactly it, huh...Mahiru... The killings... The class trials... It's all so messed up...!"
"Nekomaru's quite good at taking care of people... I wonder if that's a habit of being a team manager?"
"The moment I have a heart attack...I'll definitely have something I need to be worried about..."
"He would've probably used the latest kitchen equipment... And cooked the World's Tastiest Dishes. With those dishes, he would've made a lot of people smile... But...that's no longer..."
"Hey Kazuichi... "Those who won't run will never see the goal!"
"The combination is crazy and everyone's doing different things...but strangely, it's harmonizing really well. Even though our paces are all different... Will we be able to be like this in the future? ... Mahiru, can you hear this performance? Are you seeing Hiyoko's dance...? Not just Mahiru... Peko...Teruteru...Byakuya...are you all watching? We will never forget about you. Ever! And we will not waste your deaths... We will survive and get off this island!"
"It should be okay to have a peaceful day like this for a change."
"It's...definitely not possible... There's no way it'd be that easy to move on... We never had to think about death until we came to this island. So when we're forced to suddenly confront it, there's no way we'd know how we're supposed to deal with it..."
"I've never felt so fatigued in the morning before... It's probably because of everything that's happened... But I should put that feeling aside and move on. There's no such thing as a useless day for us anymore."
"I see...Fuyuhiko's not the only one who's trying to change... She's...also trying, huh. The old Hiyoko...there's no way she would've ever forgiven Fuyuhiko like this."
"Even if we opened our mouths, only words of worry would come out. We all knew that. When we saw Nekomaru's tragedy happen right in front of us, once again we were all taught... If you think you won't die...well, that's just wishful thinking. ON this island, without any warning... People die... That...is the nightmare we're trapped in. When you think you've finally woken up from the nightmare, you realize you're still inside it. ...And thus, the nightmare continues."
"Nekomaru must've wanted to protect Akane at all costs. Just like how Peko wanted to protect you..."
"It'd probably be a waste of time to find out the reason for each little thing Nagito does but... I don't get this at all. Why did he have to tell such an outrageous lie?"
"Wh-What happened, Akane? It's not like you to cry...get a grip on yourself."
"I-I'd really prefer if she had a more confident-sounding catchphrase...!"
"I-It's going to be okay...you don't have to worry. Fuyuhiko and I are here, so don't cry."
"Worry...why do I have to worry about a guy like him...?"
"I do understand how you feel but...don't overexert yourself, okay?"
"Anyway...all we can do now is wait... Just wait patiently...until the situation improves...and changes for the better. Because waiting patiently was the only thing we could do...we waited patiently."
"My worries have piled so high that one sigh just isn't enough. And...the more I think about it, it's like I'm slowly being sucked deeper and deeper into an endless pit... I guess for today...I should just go to sleep. It's best if I not dwell on it too much..."
"I wanted to cover my ears. I wanted to run. To the place I deserve to be. Not here. To the place...where I can be more confident."
"Leave me alone... I just... I just want to become someone who's confident in myself."
"I rushed into the music venue with a prayer in my heart. But... I completely forgot... Prayer...means nothing on this island."
"Even though I expected it...I still didn't want to confront that reality. Under the hemp bag, there was no denying that the face I saw belonged to...Ibuki."
"That's right...we need to end this... We need to finish this...once and for all. I know there's no way he can believe that one of us did this... But for those two's sake, we need to find the truth! And then, we need to end this nightmare once and for all!"
"...I understand how you feel, but please get a hold of yourself. Two of our friends were killed... That's all the more reason why we can't just leave this alone, right?"
"This guy just wants to confuse us... There's no way I'm going to tell him what he wants to know!"
"I noticed our lined up silhouettes keep getting smaller and smaller... ...But I can't turn back now. If I turn back, I won't be able to press forward..."
"Ibuki Mioda, the Ultimate Musician... She was really loud, but she was the moodmaker of our group. When I was with her, all of my pain and suffering just seemed to melt away. Hiyoko Saionji, the Ultimate Traditional Dancer... Just from looking at her adorable face, you'd never know she was actually selfish and foulmouthed... But she was trying to change herself, and she was desperately trying to come to terms with Mahiru's death. The person who killed those two is among us. I...definitely can't believe it... But...whether I believe it or not is irrelevant. Unless I figure out the truth, I won't be able to escape from this hell. That's why...I must find out, no matter the cost. For our sake... For our friends' sake... For Ibuki and Hiyoko's sake... And so...the curtain to the third Class Trial was about to open... ...this life-threatening trial billowing with hope and despair... ...has begun."
"It's just as Kazuichi said... Nagito's the kind of guy who'll just confuse us and make matters worse..."
"Wh-What warm-up!? This isn't a game, you know!"
"Why Hiyoko went to the music venue... If that's the key to all this... I need to find that out, no matter the cost!"
"Nagito Komaeda... You're definitely someone I shouldn't underestimate..."
"And whether or not we can reach the that hidden truth... ...is all up to me."
"Tricks aside, logic aside... Is she really capable...of doing something like this? No, in fact...it'd be somuch easier if I was wrong... If I have this much doubt about someone I've spent so much time with..."
"I...don't want to do this either...! Of course I don't want to do this...! But...I *need* to do this...!"
"That's not it! I suspect them because I want to believe them!"
"I need to...make up my mind. I'm the one who has to do it...! I'm the one who's going to finish this...!"
"Don't flinch....don't hesitate...don't run away...! I'm the only one who saw that video... Who else is gonna do it if I don't!?"
"At this rate, we're not getting anywhere... I gotta do something...and end this... I gotta do something...so I can make her admit it!"
"Mikan...it's already over... After I go over your crime from the beginning and show that you have no argument left... ...Please just admit it already! In the end, at least let me believe in you!"
"I-I won't believe it...! There's no way I can believe...you were like this all along... Because...if that's true...! Then who's the person we've been spending time with up until now!?"
"Like a house of cards collapsing in an instant... In the end, our friend we thought we knew ended up showing us a completely different side of herself... Then she vanished from our sight, leaving behind only her malice toward us. And now...there's no way we can just move on or try to have a clear-cut attitude about these feelings... ...That's clearly impossible."
Chapter 4:

"We were hoping things would progress smoothly. That's right. A common, ordinary progression. Like, for example... The enemy's lair crumbling right after you defeat the final boss, or your dead friend suddenly reappearing... It would've been just fine if things had progressed like that. That's the kind of old-school progression we were hoping for... Not...this unreasonable turn of events."
"It's better to just be alive... I do understand what Nekomaru is saying but... No matter how we make sense of this... It's just too weird... This isn't a novel or a movie. This is reality. Can something this unexplainable really be allowed to happen? No, instead... Why did this happen?"
"As I listened to Monokuma's boisterous laugh, once again I was forced to accept... This island is not the day-to-day world I know. It's a mad world where the strange is accepted as normal. Causes, reasoning, circumstances, foreshadowing... These things don't apply here at all. ...That's what it means to live in a mad world."
"I will not accept any more victims...! I will definitely prevent that from happening...!"
"It's useless to think about things that are a waste of time... I've learned that much during my time here."
"Don't talk so confidently about a castle you've never seen before..."
"Maybe it's because we were shown a new mystery from that Future Foundation file but... ...I was panicking. I couldn't keep still after being forced to see more mysteries that didn't make sense. I felt like...I didn't even care if it was a trap. And because of that panic, I completely forgot... Monokuma's traps are always...far beyond our imagination... ...I completely forgot about that."
"We've been together this whole time and you still don't know who I am!?"
"When people stop trusting you...it seriously sucks..."
"Of course, I'm not a kid who'd be amused by something like this... Besides, I don't have time to play anyway."
"Yeah, you're right... It's still too soon to give up."
"That's why... No matter what shape you're in, we're all extremely happy that you came back to us."
"But...we can't just stand here and do nothing...!"
"So once someone is suspicious of me, anything I do will look suspicious to them, huh. What should I do...?"
"So it was definitely a waste of time to believe Monokuma..."
"For a princess...you sure do think about petty stuff."
"It's a little cold in here... The draft coming from the door is making me hungry... But...I shouldn't be talking like that. For now, I need to endure it no matter what. No matter what happens...I will definitely prevent a killing from happening... I won't let Monokuma get what he wants...!"
"...Now then, what should I do now? In this kind of situation...panicking will accomplish nothing. It might be better if I spend time like I normally do for as long as I can. I should find someone to talk to...or it might be a good idea to just stay in myr oom and conserve my energy."
"In the future, it may be necessary to know about the enemy..."
"This isn't about just you... We're all getting screwed here."
"I'd rather...have that happen to us... ...than have our friends kill each other..."
"If I just leave this matter alone, something bad might happen... It's not like I'm worried but...I should go see how everyone's doing."
"...I don't even have the energy or willpower to say anything anymore."
"The weaker my body gets, the less sense everything seems to make... We're on the verge of starving to death and there's no way to escape... Is it really okay to just lay here and take it? Or..."
"This morning, I couldn't help feeling angry...that I said what I said in front of every one, but... I...I don't really think that it's okay if we end up starving to death... I need to do something... I need...to do...something...soon..."
"It...was very sudden. That's right, it's always sudden. The door to despair...always opens suddenly."
"If this is a nightmare, please, just let me wake up..."
"I gotta do it... I have to do it...!"
"I knew he was strange from the start, but for him to casually do something so suicidal... He's crazy...! That's all there is to it!"
"It's true that I'm...shocked, but...now's not the time for me to feel like that... Right now, I can't afford to be the only one who's depressed... I need to survive with everyone else and return home! That's what's most important! ...Isn't that right?"
"No... We've all come this far. If he's saying we should try it out, then we should give it a shot."
"O-Of course there isn't! What kind of hope comes from killing people!?" (to Nagito)
"Calm down... That's right... I need to calm down..."
"...And so it begins. I hoped this would never happen again, and now it's happening for the fourth time... The curtain to the fourth Class Trial...was about to open. Nekomaru Nidai, the Ultimate Team Manager... He was more passionate...more daring...more honest than anyone I'd ever met... Truly, he was more man than any of us. He sacrificed his body to protect Akane, and his appearance changed drastically because of that... But...he still tried to live earnestly. And just when I finally got used to his new form... Nekomaru's killer... ...is one of us. Killing someone because it's the only way to survive...is no excuse. ...I won't let this be excused. I won't forgive this. The person who betrayed Nekomaru... Who betrayed their friends... ...I will never, ever forgive them! And so... ...this life-threatening trial billowing with hope and despair... ...has begun."
"You can tell what the weapon is just by looking...? It wouldn't be much of a mystery if that were true..."
"Nagito... As usual, I can't tell what he's thinking. I have no idea if he's serious or not..."
"...If I'm going to reach the truth behind this incident, I need to solve that mystery next!"
"Another mystery I don't understand...? Seriously, it's just one after another... But...I can't choke up at a time like this. Just a little more and I'll be able to reach the truth... There should definitely be a clue to breaking through this contradiction!"
"Perhaps we've overlooked something... Maybe we're misunderstanding something... Think... If I focus and think...I should be able to find the answer to that mystery."
"I need too clarify by how much the time was off after the killer messed with the clocks. That's definitely the next mystery...! I'm going to reach the truth in one go!"
"When something is obviously wrong, that's when a contradiction is born... There's no such thing as a contradiction that can't be overcome!"
"A contradiction is when something is obviously wrong... There's no contradiction I can't shoot through... I'm going to find out what that is. For the sake of everyone's hope...I'll shoot through the contradiction!"
"...There's no way I can stop!"
"His argument...is exhausting... Just listening to it makes me tired... I need to skillfully cut back against his words, so he doesn't outpace me..."
"I guess you really don't want to admit it... Then...just as you requested... I will provide an argument that'll leave you no choice but to be persuaded!"
"It's true the Class Trial is finished but...that doesn't mean the incident is over... We can't finish yet until we hear it from Gundham!"
"Even after Gundham is gone... The spirit of his parting words still lingered deep in our chests. "Don't give up on life" Did I...misunderstand what he meant? Then...what's the right thing to do? I don't know... No matter how much I think about it... I don't know if I'll ever be able to answer that."
"We shouldn't just stand here... I mean...it's not like this is over. We...still have to do it. We still have to finish this. For the sake of our friends who have died, we need to finish this once and for all! So... Don't just stand there. Stand up and walk. Move forward. Live. If you don't... Everyone who fought and died will have died in vain...! We can't allow that!"
"With this, the Class Trial has come to an end and once again, we returned to Jabberwock Island. The size of our group has definitely diminished... But despite that...even if it was just the rest of us, we did our best to stay upbeat and have fun together. Of course, our optimism was only superficial... But at that moment, we were able to forget about the dark despair looming before us. However, the only thing I was worried about... ...was him. He wasn't there. He...suddenly disappeared from our sight."
Chapter 5:

"Nekomaru, you were a strong man. You were always straightforward...because you were strong. But...strength doesn't mean anything when you're dead."
"Gundham...I won't forget your final message... "Don't give up on life." Even now, those words are still etched into my heart. I don't know if I'll find any answers, but... We...will continue to press forward...so you won't lecture us...!"
"My whole life...I've just wanted to feel confident about myself... And I thought getting into Hope's Peak Academy meant I had finally become someone I could be proud of... Not...some fucking backup student...!"
"Hey, don't talk like you're not included. You're our friend too, you know..."
"As we left the restaurant, the expressions on our faces were clearly different than they were before... They were filled with strong will and determination... Armed with that, we began walking toward the last island. But...the clouds in my heart still lingered... I couldn't stop thinking about the Reserve Department. And that filled me with this strange uncomfortable feeling, like a small bone was lodged in my throat. But...I tried not to think about it. I tried to stay focused on moving forward."
"This mystery doesn't make any sense... No matter how much we think about it, there's no reason behind it..."
"It's just...a lot of unimaginable things have kept happening to us, so maybe I'm getting a little confused. But the world ending...? There's no way something so unbelievable could actually happen. That sounds like something that would happen in a work of fiction... But the thought of it actually happening in reality...is definitely unsettling."
"Kazuichi is right. It's dangerous to let Nagito wander freely. If we're being cautious, we have to act fast... But...what is this indescribable anxiousness I'm feeling? ... I hope...it just means I'm thinking too much..."
"There are photos of the 16 of us, but we can't return to those days anymore. Once again, I'm confronted by the fact that..."
"Well, since I walked around all day today, I was able to obtain several clues... Although I'm not really certain if you can even call these clues... Instead...I feel like we're just suffering from more mysteries that don't make sense... ... This isn't good... As soon as nighttime hits, I can't stop thinking all these pessimistic thoughts... ...This might be a bad habit of mine. I should just get some sleep for today. Rest my mind for a while... And then...I'll give this some more thought tomorrow."
"I don't know what he's thinking, but as long as we capture him, we'll have the advantage. I won't let him do as he pleases anymore...!"
"I couldn't even stop him... I felt...afraid of Nagito. The madness emanating from Nagito's body was seeping into my bones. I...never expected him to go this far..."
"But...it's ironic... Nagito is the reason we're all splitting up, but the reason we're all cooperating... ...is because of Nagito, too. ...It's pretty damn ironic."
"Nothing good will come from rushing... I should try looking somewhere else...!"
"Now's not the time to be calm! We need to stop them!"
"I'd never experienced such an oppressive atmosphere before, and I couldn't help holding my breath. And then, on the other side of the curtain... I saw the true source of the intense malice that I had been feeling. I...I had no idea...what I was looking at... By the time I realized I was looking at the remains of Nagito Komaeda, the Ultimate Lucky Student... ...Time had already stopped."
"Eventually...the shock finally registered with me. A numb feeling spread from the center of my brain almost instantly. Nagito...is dead... Even when I saw this before me, I wasn't able to comprehend that reality yet."
"I never expected I'd be looking at Nagito's body like this... Nagito...probably thought the same thing. I couldn't help seeing it in his dead, frightened face. But...on this island, unbelievably abnormal occurrences happen all the time... Even Nagito couldn't escape that truth... But even something as small as that..."
"There's a killer among us... The weight of those words began to sink into me. That was true of the previous cases, but...was it really true this time? No matter how much I tried, I couldn't believe it... Because the victim was Nagito...? Because his death was so abnormally cruel...? No, it wasn't just that. There was something more to it than that... And whatever it was...it was stuck inside me."
"A-Anyway... Like you said before, if we screw up here, it's the end for us. For now...let's focus on the investigation. We'll think about the countdown...after we live through the Class Trial."
"There's no time for us to stand around. In order to survive...there's no other way except to do it. In order to survive, we need to find Nagito's killer. If we don't sacrifice that person, nobody can survive... ...That's our reality. That's why...there's no time for us to stand around."
"Don't worry or form conclusions on your own... That makes *me* more worried than I should be."
"I never expected Nagito...to die like this... He was always spouting nonsense about hope and trying to confuse the hell out of us... But even so...dying like this is just too cruel. Also...he wasn't completely useless... There were times we were only able to reach the truth because of him. But...everything good and bad about him is gone. We'll never be confused by him again. We'll never be saved by him again... No...now isn't the time to think about unnecessary things. I need to focus on the investigation right now."
"Jeez...I can't believe I actually investigated such a grisly-looking body... ...Even I'm surprised at myself. Does this mean...I'm used to it? My classmate's dead body is right in front of me...and one of my peers is the killer responsible... And I have to investigate his death so I can find his killer... Am I used to something as abnormal as that? That would mean...I'm becoming abnormal, too."
"Well, Monokuma isn't exactly someone you would normally run into..."
"I feel a little tired... No matter how much I investigate, I don't feel any closer to the truth... That's probably why I feel this way. I'm feeling this strange feeling that I've never felt before. As if Nagito is trying to make us suffer, even after he's died... ...Well, now's not the time to think about stupid things like that. I haven't even investigated his cottage yet... It's too early to start complaining. If we investigate that place, we might be able to find some kind of clue. ...All right, let's go."
"So...Nagito was living here... What was he thinking inside this room? What was he feeling as he spent his days in here...? I can't even imagine. Wanting to see "absolute hope"... Becoming despair so he could act as a stepping stone for the rest of us... No matter how much I think about it, I just don't understand him at all... I don't even know if he truly believed that... He was especially weird these past few days. What changed him...? Maybe...the clue to that might be hidden here as well..."
"You're right...you're absolutely right... We're not alone... Even if it's a mystery that can't be solved alone... As long as everyone cooperates and works together... Yeah...if we do that, things will turn out fine..."
"In fact, during the Funhouse ordeal, we were completely dependent on him... But even if he's gone, the ones who've survived need to stand and fight. We...must fight... And then...the door slowly opened. This bright light greeting us... Is that the light of hope...? Or the light of despair...?"
"Nagito Komaeda, the Ultimate Lucky Student... When I first met him, I thought he was a nice guy. He came across as very sociable... But his true nature...held such a demented thought process that was nothing like his outward appearance... He said he believed in hop more than anything else. He said he was yearning for a powerful hope that can overcome any despair. He said he would even help despair just to prove that hope will never lose to despair... And...he said he'd become a stepping stone for hope. ...His way of thinking was completely screwed up. But...there were also times he saved us, too. Someone like him was killed... That was the end of him. And I have no idea at all...who did it, but... There's no way we can end this without knowing. We will be consumed by despair. That's why...we absolutely have to find out... The person who finished off Nagito... The killer who murdered Nagito...! In order to return from this despair alive, we need to reach the truth. And if Monokuma says this is really the last Class Trial... ...That's all the more reason we need to do this. And so... ...this life-threatening trial billowing with hope and despair... The last one... ...has begun."
"Jeez...and I was starting to feel a little sympathetic toward him... How stupid of me... I completely underestimated his capacity for malice... A mind-boggling malice that threatens us even after he's died... That's the form his malice look. I had forgotten all about it until now... If he was here now...he'd probably be sneering at me."
"I just remembered that his malice always defied our expectations...and that concerns me. For example, would that malice...just end here? Did Nagito's malice drive him to risk his life for a truth we'd reach *this* easily? I mean...this is Nagito we're talking about, you know?"
"If all your hopes are united, no despair can shake you", huh... ...Now that I think about it, Nagito said the same thing. "The absolute hope that can overcome any despair"... He said he was yearning for that... Then, this situation we're in...might be the thing that Nagito wanted all along... ... ...No, never mind. I'm probably...overthinking."
"I don't want to hurt anyone... I don't want to get hurt anymore...by hurting someone else. Everyone's tired...tired of doubting everyone else... I...I also feel that way. That's why I want to just rule this as "Nagito's suicide". If I do that...nobody here has to get hurt... But... That's no good... I feel like...Nagito is seeing through us. By calling this "Nagito's suicide," we're trying to take the easy way out so we don't hurt anyone else... But if Nagito was here right now... He'd probably be sneering at us. He'd probably say something like, "So that's the extent of your hopes."
"But...I just can't imagine ending this by turning our backs on the truth...!"
"He wanted to prove to us that there are mysteries that just can't be solved with educated guesses!"
"That's right...it doesn't mean the trial is over yet... Even though I don't know who killed Nagito... It should be clear what kind of trap he set. Then...I have to do it. Even if it leads to despair...! ...I got it. Let's do this then!"
"He relied on his luck to aim for a target, but he didn't even know who he was aiming for... It sounds way too unbelievable to have actually happened, but... ...The only thing we can do is believe."
"Wh-Whether I can prove it or not...that's not the problem... Don't you understand!? You may as well be asking me to kill you! I... There's no way I can do that...!"
"No, the truth is I might've already known the moment I found this notebook... It's just...I wanted to turn my eyes from the truth it contained... But now I clearly know. I...can't help but know..."
"I don't want to believe it either... I don't want to believe but... But...then nobody will be saved!"
"I don't...I don't want to believe it...but... I have to move forward... I have to move forward to the path she's showing us...!"
"We shouldn't believe in Monokuma...or Nagito... We have to believe in Chiaki! It doesn't matter who the traitor is... Even if Chiaki is the traitor, that's not the Chiaki I know. I believe in...the Chiaki who's been with us this whole time. That Chiaki is saying she wants to protect us with her life! So the only thing we can do is believe her! If we don't...nobody's going to be saved!"
"...It's not fair. I...feel the same as everyone else. There's no way I can agree to this...! Emptiness. Loneliness. Sadness. But most of all...I'm ashamed of my weakness. But... Even so... ...I have to move forward. If we believe in the person who's urging us forward... ...then we have to start walking. And believe...with as much hope as possible in what lies ahead."
"Without realizing it...I had fallen to my knees. A feeling of powerlessness spread throughout my body. It's over... It just had to end... Before I could ask what I needed to ask... Before I could say what I needed to say... Chiaki vanished before my eyes... And I couldn't even tell her, "Thank you"... If I had said that, would she have been comforted a little...? As she was executed as the traitor...would she have been comforted a little...? I don't know... My chest...just hurt."
"Even after I woke up, my will to move my body didn't come back. That's why... I didn't look back on everything that happened up till now... I didn't think about what was going to happen... I just kept praying that nothing else would happen... And burrowed deep into my sheets, as if I were trying to hide."
"The day feels abnormally long when you spend it praying that nothing happens."
"...Is everything really going to end? What is "everything" anyway? How far, how much is...everything? If we leave this island...is everything going to end? There's still so much we don't know... About our school memories, the Future Foundation, Hope's Peak Academy, Monokuma's true purpose... Can we really end this and turn our back on all that? And not just that...if we're really leaving, then where are we going? ...To Hope's Peak Academy? ... That was...my last night at Jabberwock Island. At a place where my worries didn't even matter...everything was about to end."
"I suddenly couldn't believe in anything, like everything in this world was nothing but lies..."
"Nagito...I can't believe you actually left a will... Fine, then I'll make sure to listen to your last words...!"
"To go to the trouble of preparing something like this... Nagito was unpredictable until the very end..."
"Beyond this door... The future is waiting... A sparkling future... Now then...let's move forward."
"Something's...wrong...? What did I do...? ... ... No...that's not it... I'm not the...weird one... .What's really weird is... ...this world?"
Chapter 6:

"The gymnasium...is here, right? ...All right, I'm going inside! Something might be waiting...but I'm not going to cower away anymore."
"If I really am a nobody...then...you should've just left me alone... Why...why do I have to go through something like this?"
"Chiaki said...she could not betray the Future Foundation... But if she were still alive, she definitely would've helped us... No...even her just being with us would've been a big help."
"He's...right... Now's not the time to bemoan how unlucky I am... Where this place really is... What's happened to Hope's Peak Academy... ...None of that matters. What's important is... I need to leave this island with the others. We sacrificed so many lives in order to survive just so we could do that... There's no way we can stop now."
"If we stopped at the green light...we'd never reach our goal."
"I...should hurry and start too... Just a bit more... Just a bit more...and it's going to end... I can escape this nightmare and return to my usual, peaceful, every day life. The only thing we can do is advance toward that hope... Even though I don't understand...and that a lot of horrifying things keep happening... For the sake of everyone who couldn't make it this far, I'm definitely going to go home!"
"I-I don't know how he's doing it but...he keeps doing it over and over again... He's so persistent... Bur I'm not gonna fall for his trap! There's no way this will make me back down!"
"The cherry tree is proudly displaying its full blossoms. The falling petals add to the elegance of the scene. If Hiyoko and Peko were here, it would've looked truly picturesque. For their sake's as well...I will definitely go home!"
"No...it'd just be a waste of time to wonder about things that don't make sense."
"He's trying to make us feel despair toward the outside world so we'll want to stay on this island. But...there's no way I'm going to do what he wants...! Despair like that simply can't exist... The outside world should be filled with hope... ...Just like now. Perhaps...no, that's definitely it."
"No...I've already decided that I'm not going to be surprised. That's right...there's no time for me to be surprised by something like this!"
"But still...her gut is pretty impressive... For some reason it's strangely intuitive... And Monokuma did say something about the main cast coming... It's surprising but...her gut must be correct again this time..."
"I'm starting to feel like we might be better off not remembering the memories we've lost..."
"A feeling of emptiness, like everything is being tainted. A feeling of weakness, like the world is collapsing beneath my feet. Everything is starting to feel meaningless... The desperate attempts, the sad goodbyes, the conflicts, the trust I felt until now... It's all disappearing until all I feel is... ...Despair."
"There was no way for me to acknowledge it as the truth... It would make much more sense if this was a fictional world..."
"I feel... I feel like I can't believe what's going on here... The missing sense of reality... All the mysteries...all the truths... They're all just fiction... Is that...? ... ...Even so, I need to know. I need to know what this world is."
"Do our best...huh... But...what do we have to do our best at...? ... The mystery is getting solved... I'm finally starting to see the truth... But...what are we supposed to do when that truth is really a lie? We know we're working towards a conclusion that nobody wants to hear... But still, do we really need to work hard and do our best? Is there...really a reason to do our best? If everything was a lie... Then isn't everything just meaningless? It's the same for the killings, too... Even though we had to experience something as painful as that... Something as tragic as that... Wouldn't all that be meaningless too? When the world is flipped over and becomes so irrational... What...am I supposed to do...?"
"It's...just a waste of time thinking about what this all means right now... For now...I need to finish this... I need to just focus on that..."
"The world's true identity... If I answer this...it will be true... And that lie...will become the truth... But... There's no way I can leave it unanswered."
"This world is a virtual reality created by a computer program. We can't proceed if we don't accept it... ...Is believing him really the only thing we can do?"
"The truth is... ...The truth is it was all a lie. That...is this world's truth... I-If everything's a lie... Then...what should we believe...?"
"What game...!? That's not what we risked our lives for!"
"She didn't exist at all...? Not human...? No, that's not it! Chiaki was really alive...! Even if she was a virtual existence, she was really alive... Did you forget!? She saved our lives, you know!"
"We've been trying desperately to survive until we can finally leave this place... If we don't get out of here now, all the deaths we've endured will be in vain... I...know this...but... ...Something's not right. ...How come Monokuma isn't trying to stop us? Is he just going to stay quiet and overlook us getting out of this game world? Then...everything Monokuma did would be pointless, too. Not only that... Is...it really okay for us to believe him? Should...we get out? Or..."
"We're...completely at her mercy. But if we can't progress unless we answer... We have no choice...but no answer...!"
"S-So you're saying you only exist...to fill people with despair?"
"Meaningless...vanish... Does that...include her, too? If we lose our memories of this world, we're also going to forget *she* ever existed, right? If that happens... Does it really mean that... ...that she, an existence confined to this world...is really going to disappear? She risked her life to protect us, and we won't even remember she existed...!"
"Gradute or shutdown... The world or me... Hope or despair... They're telling us to choose...? To choose between that...? Wh-Why...? Why...do we have to choose...? I can't do it... I...can't choose... You guys are telling us the world's going to be destroyed unless we sacrifice ourselves... And that...I can't decide... I can't choose either one..."
"Shut up! Leave me alone! This...this is just too much... Why do I...why do I have to be a part of this...? I mean, I'm different from the rest of you... And I don't even have a talent... But even so...I got dragged into this... And now...my existence is going to disappear? Ha...hahaha, I don't understand it at all."
"It's impossible! For someone like me...it's impossible... I can't choose the future...! Hope...despair...do whatever you want! It's not my problem!"
"Anyway...don't you think they're messed up? Telling us the world's going to be destroyed and to sacrifice ourselves...? There's no way I can choose... For someone like me...I'm just not able to choose... Seriously...I've had enough... I'm tired of being mixed up in all this stuff I don't understand... Not only was I told that I have no talent at all, but if I get out, I'll go back to being Ultimate Despair... And on top of that...I was told I'm going to disappear too. Isn't that messed up? ...Hey, you don't want that either, right? I mean, if we lose our memories, there won't be a single trace of your existence left. You're going to completely disappear...and none of us will ever remember you..."
"Hey Chiaki...can you tell me something? Which...which choice should I make? My hope...the world's hope...which one should I choose?"
"I have no talent at all... I was even betrayed by the academy I admired so much... I don't want to disappear... I'm not Izuru Kamukura... Who cares what will happen to the world...? It's not like I'll be appreciate anyway... I don't want to sacrifice myself... There's no way we can beat Junko! It's the Future Foundation's fault... Not mine... I can't choose the future..."
"There won't just be hope... There will probably be a lot of despair too... I don't know what kind of future awaits us... ...but our futures are ours! I won't let anyone take them!"
"I've decided...I'm done running away... I will fight for my future! I will fight alongside the future that everyone created for me! It's not for anyone else's sake but my own!"
"I...am not Izuru Kamukura... I am Hajime Hinata!"
"There's never only one choice to make... There's no way I'll allow things to end this way. The future everyone has created for us should have more possibilities than that. Let's leave this place with confidence, and from there we can just create it on our own. ...The future that we want!"
"It wouldn't be strange if a miracle happened... This isn't a game! We can change the future as much as we want!"
"We believe in our future... That's what makes us different from you... We believe that if we try new things, even difficult things, that everything will turn out okay. We believe we can even create our own futures!"
"I'm not...the one you should be thanking."
"And fro that point on...we're the ones who are going to create."
"So this is the end... But...it's just the beginning. ...Isn't that right? It doesn't change how scared I am... I can't help feeling scared...so scared, but... Thank you... Thank you, Chiaki... Phew...I finally said it."
Class Trial Interjections:

"NO, THAT'S WRONG!"
"I AGREE WITH THAT!"
"THAT MUST BE IT!"
"I SEE!"
"I CAN PROVE IT WITH THIS!"
"HERE'S EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENED IN THIS CASE!"
"There's no way I'll back out now!"
"ALLOW ME TO CUT THROUGH THOSE WORDS!"
"I'LL SHOOT THROUGH THAT CONTRADICTION!"
"YOU'RE THE ONLY ONE!"
"THIS IS MY ANSWER"
"I GOT IT!"
"THIS IS THE END!"
"IT'S ALL COMING TOGETHER!"
"HERE!"
"This world..."
"EVEN SO I..."
"I'LL NEVER LET ANYONE CHOOSE AGAIN!"
"THAT'S PROBABLY TRUE...!" (Only in the Japanese version)
Epilogue:

"And so...the ordeal has ended. And from here, our daily lives have started. Lives that are much more absurd, nonsensical, and irrational than before... Things are...probably going to be a lot more difficult now. There's no such thing as an answered mystery... It's doubtful whether or not things will even end well."
"The future isn't a path, it's like an endless sea... You can try to go anywhere... But it doesn't mean you'll get there. Even so, I will keep on living. I will keep on living as Hajime Hinata. My future...lies here."

Hajime's first name (創) means "beginning", while "Hinata" (日向) means "a sunny place" or "to face the sun". His full name can altogether translate as "to face a new day".
The names "Hajime" and "Hinata" are very common names in Japan, with either having many written forms (e.g. Hajime can be written as 始, 治, 初, 一, 元, 肇, 創, 甫, 基, 哉, 啓, 本, 源, 東, 大, 孟, 祝...). Hinata itself is both a surname and a given name. This 'common' quality of his names is parallel to how Hajime was a common student with no extraordinary talent.
Matching the meaning of his given name, Hajime's birthday is January 1, the first day of the year in the Gregorian calendar.
Hajime's alternate identity is foreshadowed during one of Gundham's Free Time Events, where Gundham asks Hajime to reveal his "true name".
During the final trial, in his temporary "Awakened Form", Hajime bears a striking resemblance to Kiyotaka Ishimaru's "Kiyondo" form; both have their dark hair turn pure white and their eyes bright red (Kiyotaka's were already red, however).
They both also changed into their respective forms because of memories of their deceased friends; Kiyotaka became Kiyondo due to his love for his friend Mondo, and Hajime entered his "Awakened" form due to the memory of Chiaki helping him overcome his despair.
Technically being the same person as Izuru Kamukura, Hajime is the first character in the Danganronpa series that has participated in two Mutual Killing Games and survived. The others are Makoto, Aoi Asahina, and technically Kyoko Kirigiri.
According to the text seen on the computer screen in the episode 6 of Despair Arc, both Hajime and his parents gave their consent for the Izuru Kamukura Project and agreed that the school would not be held liable for the said actions, although it's unclear if they were fully aware of the consequences considering the school's tendency to lie and hide information.
Hajime's former high school before he enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy, Kodaka High School (小高高校 kodaka kōkō) is named after the creator of Danganronpa, Kazutaka Kodaka.
Hajime, possibly Izuru with shorter hair, is seen in the promotional art for and the collaboration of Danganronpa 3 and Guns Girl Z.

Akane is a young woman in her early twenties, around 22 at the youngest. Her virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as her 17-year-old self.

She is a tall young woman with an athletic, curvaceous physique. She has tan skin, dark gray eyes, and unkempt, shoulder-length chestnut hair. During her high school years, she had long hair.

Akane wears a short-sleeved white shirt with the top few buttons undone, exposing a large amount of cleavage. The bottom button also appears undone, exposing her navel when she moves quickly. She also wears a red miniskirt and cream-colored loafers with no socks.

As the Ultimate Despair, Akane has the same short hair. She has a white coat with ripped sleeves. In addition to that, she only wears a black tube top and black shorts, making her stomach and six pack visible.


Appearance in Danganronpa 2
Danganronpa 3 Akane Owari Fullbody
Appearance in Danganronpa 3


Akane has a fiery personality and she loves fighting, as long as there is no other weapons besides the person's own fists and body, which lets her get along very well with Nekomaru Nidai. She is eager to challenge someone to fight her and she respects those who are physically strong, and can somehow correctly tell which people would be strong opponents even if they don't look like it. She seems to think that punching things, including people, is the best way to solve problems and her hot head can sometimes get her into trouble. While she also loves athletic things such as climbing and running, she can actually be very lazy and unmotivated if she isn't allowed to do things her own way. She dislikes planning, training, and routines, but has a remarkable talent for inventing her own moves. In general, her mood can shift very quickly. She can bounce between bored, to happy, to angry, and to happy again. Despite her easygoing and aloof personality, she is loyal and protective towards her friends. Akane is also extremely fond of food and she can eat almost anything, including small animals. She claims that food is the most important thing, because "If you don't eat, you'll die." She also thinks that eating is very important so you can regain your strength. While her hungriness is often played for laughs, it has some darker undertones. She says that she quickly loses her energy if she doesn't eat and she just gets more hungry if she eats just a little. Her eating can even appear compulsive and sometimes it's hard for her to stop, and she turns low-spirited very quickly whenever she is very hungry.

Although Akane seems to have a rather serious attitude, she may say some quite out-of-place statements. Even during Class Trials, she tends to say random statements that only vaguely relate to the murder. She isn't the most intellectual member of the cast, being easily confused by complex words, misinterpreting insults and figures of speech, and generally defaulting to violence (or threats thereof) to solve problems. She is also very gullible, often easily believing things people say, as shown as she easily believes people's lies in Class Trials and is surprised when others tell her that they're lying. This has often been exploited by Hiyoko Saionji, who used her to investigate the motel room in Chapter 3 when she didn't want to do it and as mentioned in one of Hiyoko's Free Time Events, tricked her into eating flowers. She also dislikes complicated plans and has stated herself that she isn't very good at doing detailed work. However, despite her appearing a bit slow, it should be noted that her gut feelings are never wrong and she can sometimes say things that end up being very important.

In Akane's dark past, sexual harassment was the norm for her and as she is rather clueless, she doesn't seem to be aware of just how bad and wrong it is. She can mention her past experiences in a very casual way, which confuses and disturbs others. For example, she thinks it's completely normal to let someone to do something specifically to her breasts, and she quite often offers this either as a way to apologize or reward someone. She also sees no problem in getting naked in front of others, and she doesn't like wearing swimsuits while swimming. She does, however, get easily embarrassed about romance or if she has to wear clothes she considers silly. Though, she does not seem to really care about pretty things like flowers and pretty sceneries, not really considering them important.

Due to her past, Akane can also be forgetful of people's personalities, as shown when she mentioned in the first Class Trial that the Ultimate Imposter was a jokester, only to be corrected by Kazuichi Soda. She also tends to forget people's names; for instance, she frequently forgets Hajime Hinata's name, calling him "Hank", "Harvey", and "Hector".

Akane claims that she never gets worried about anything and she is generally very carefree. In actuality, she believes that hesitation and worry is a sign of weakness and she hates being weak. She forces herself to be strong and believes that real strength is showing no weaknesses at all. She believes that she has to be strong alone and that she can't rely on anyone else. After spending time with Nekomaru and Hajime, she begins to think about what it really means to be strong and weak.

Akane is intrigued by the world, as it's huge and "full of treasure". Due to her background, she is content with and appreciates food and buildings many others would consider "crappy". Since she used to take care of her younger siblings, she is very protective of "hungry small things" and she is sometimes strict about safety. She is also terrified of ghosts, but she keeps this a secret.

Talent and Abilities 
Ultimate Gymnast 
Akane was born with a natural talent as a gymnast. Her body build, strength, agility, and endurance grew ever since she was a child. She often nimbly performed parkour on her home and her father who noticed this convinced her to join tournaments and competitions. It turned out that she did very, very well and kept winning many tournaments since then. Her only motivation to join tournaments was to produce money to provide for her family's everyday needs.

At first, she wasn't motivated to do sports until her former coach trained her every day until she got enough money and moved to a new house.

During the Killing School Trip, Akane often challenged Nekomaru to train with her. Even though she kept losing her fights, she persistently wanted more rounds until she could win and didn't care about the wounds she got despite how bad they were. In Ultimate Talent Development Plan, she does a similar thing with a Sakura, fighting her constantly challenging her despite losing constantly and was determined to win no matter what.

In other 
Akane's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Gymnast
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「体操部」	Super High School Level Gymnast
Français Ultime Gymnaste	Ultimate Gymnast
Sharp Intuition 
While often lacking in intellect and not understanding situations very well, Akane has a very keen intuition and she often guesses things accurately based on her "gut feelings". She often cannot explain nor understand the reasons behind these feelings, but she firmly believes in them.

A notable example is in Chapter 6 of Danganronpa 2 when she can sense "someone" approaching, who is both a friend and an enemy. This can refer to both Future Foundation and Ultimate Despair, as the Class 77-B used to be allied with Despair before becoming enemies, and the Foundation included both their allies and enemies.

In the Bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, she is able to see through Mukuro's and Maki's facades, through instinct alone.

Enhanced Sense of Smell 
Akane has a very sensitive sense of smell. She is capable of smelling blood, unpleasant scents and, of course, delicious food long before the others.

Heat 
According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Akane is one of the series' characters with the strongest resistance towards the heat.


Prior to the 
As a child, Akane lived in a very poor area where people were dying frequently. In the mornings, it wasn't that rare to find dead bodies. Because of this, she never bothered to make close friends, or even learn any names (it's also possible that she developed her fear of ghosts because of this). Akane was regularly starving and as a result, she values food more than anything. She learned to constantly search for food, often from trash she had to fight for with other people, and from anywhere else such as nuts and bird eggs from trees and small animals she managed to catch. She was also beaten up at times and was often chased by men and even a certain stray dog, though this stopped after Akane became stronger than her pursuers. Because her own home was so poor, she had a habit of resting in libraries during winters and summers, because there were proper air conditioning, free water and bathrooms unlike in her home. Through all this, no one helped her and she learned to rely on herself. She considered her home area a crappy place filled with crappy people.

Akane lived together with her seven siblings and unemployed parents. She states that her "mom or dad would change", and that "there would be more siblings every time". Akane greatly loved her younger siblings, affectionally referring to them as the "li'l ones", and tried to make them happy whenever she could by doing things like fishing with them. She believed that it was her responsibility to take care of them, and thus she spent most of her time working many part-time jobs. When she worked as a waitress, she sometimes stole leftovers for her family.

In Akane's dark life, sexual harassment was the norm for her. She was often chased by perverts, which made her skilled at parkour. Her stepmother's lovers groped her when they were drunk and told her to do "weird" jobs, like serve them food while not wearing any underwear.

When Akane worked as an actual waitress, there was an old gymnastics coach that used to come to the cafe all the time. The man groped her and kept telling her that she had an amazing body. However, the man also suggested Akane join gymnastics. After many times being persuaded, Akane finally agreed. She started doing gymnastics for money and thanks to this, Akane and her siblings were able to move out and lived together in a new home.

As a teen, Akane previously attended Hikarimachi High School before being enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Gymnast, in the 77th Class.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak Academy 
Akane in high spirit climbed Hope's Peak Academy's main building's rooftop, like the sensation of the gentle breeze that passed through her skin. When she smelled the smell of meat, she jumped from the rooftop to reach the place where she smelled the meat. This was the perfect strategy orchestrated by her new assistant homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome. Nekomaru who already prepared for her appearance easily captured and restrained her with a cross.

Akane was tied in the cross through the entire day until she and her classmates gathered in their classroom to clean it together. After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that Akane and the others had waited and that the classroom was clean. When the students once again bring up that they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
Akane was in a realistic training combat with Nekomaru. As it going intense, Akane wondered how to defeat him. Teruteru Hanamura then offered her his and their upperclassman, Seiko Kimura's invention called Doping Corn Soup. After drinking it, Akane gained a lot of strength that was capable to follow Nekomaru's movement.

After the training end, Akane and her classmates busy repairing their classroom until Chiaki Nanami suggested them to play games that she brought. Akane, Gundham Tanaka, Nekomaru, and Chiaki played a duel game with her player resembles Donkey Kong.

During the break time, Akane's stomach rumbles, making a frightening sound that echoes inside their classroom. After she ate many portions of nikujaga that cooked by Teruteru and Hiyoko, she fell unwell. Nekomaru asked her whether she was fine, but Akane told him to not touch her with shy tone, making both of their heart racing.

It was revealed that Hiyoko secretly put another invention filled with aphrodisiacs created by Teruteru and Seiko inside the nikujaga. Akane recovered sometimes later in the nurse's office.

On the next day in Akane's classroom, Chisa gathered them and announced that she elected Chiaki as their class representative. Akane happy to heard that and agreed with Chisa's decision.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, Akane and her classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building. Later, Akane was shown laying on the ground with her classmates playing with rabbits on the school's park.

Several days later, Akane looked worried at Mahiru who cried on Hiyoko's chest after she lost one of her friend from the Reserve Course, Sato.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
Akane was still upset after the deaths of Natsumi Kuzuryu and Sato affected her class' morale greatly when Chisa announced the annual practical exam will start tomorrow.

At the end of the episode, Akane protested Chisa's transfer to the Reserve Course after the bombing incident involving Nagito. However, the principal's decision cannot be changed and she must bid her farewell to her beloved teacher.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Akane and the rest of the class celebrate Chisa's return as their homeroom teacher after being downgraded to teaching the Reserve Course a few months ago. They have made a classroom party and Akane is busy eating before questioning with her mouth full if Chisa has a stomachache as a reason for being so flustered. They all enjoy the party together.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
Akane and the rest of the class have moved to their new classroom in the new school building. Akane inquires about when Nagito will be returning to class, referring to him as 'the idiot' and Chisa responds awkwardly by telling her 'it should be soon'.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
Akane is seen watching Gundham as he plays with a bear. When Hiyoko placed a flower on Nagito's desk, commemorating a year of his suspension, Akane wondered where he was.

After learning about the Izuru Kamukura Project and The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy via an email sent out by Junko, the Reserve Course students begin to riot. Despite seeing this, however, Akane asks about what exactly was happening.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by 
When Chiaki explains to Nagito that Mikan has gone missing and he questions her name out loud, Akane acts aggressively hoping he hasn't forgotten her after all this time. When Nagito tells the class he saw Mikan in the West District, Akane, and the rest of them all act in surprised and shocked fashion, she and the rest of the class go to search for Mikan on the school grounds. She, Nekomaru and the Ultimate Imposter search for Mikan as a group before Akane questioned whether Mikan is in the cafeteria. When her stomach growls, Nekomaru concedes and agrees with her to search the cafeteria.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Akane and the rest of the class reconvene at the school classroom as they are unable to find Mikan, assuming what Nagito told them was false information. Chiaki reaches the classroom with an unconscious Nagito, explaining to them that Chisa is in danger, Akane is automatically willing to help in any way she can. Nagito convincingly makes clear that it'll be dangerous and there is a possibility of them dying, to which Akane contemplates these concerns but Chiaki convinces her otherwise although she states she was planning to go no matter the situation.

The Ultimate Imposter reveals his true identity, to Akane's shock along with the rest of the class although they come to accept it quickly. After leaving the Main Course building, the Reserve Course students seek to take them on in a battle to open placements on the Main Course, Akane and the class go on ahead, leaving Nekomaru and Gundham to fend them off, Akane wishes Nekomaru good luck before leaving him.

On the way down the stairway to Junko's lair, everyone becomes worried for Gundham and Nekomaru's safety although Akane is convinced Nekomaru will have the students in submission before too long.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope 
Akane and the class continue down the corridor after making their descent of the stairway, Mikan eventually catching up with them. After a door is flung open unexpectedly, with multiple eyes appearing in the darkness, Kazuichi screams loudly, catching the attention and dismay of Akane and the rest of the class. Only to find it was Nekomaru and Gundham, Akane smiles, relieved that they are both okay. After Gundham explains in his own way that he and Nekomaru are tired from their battle, Akane becomes confused, expressing he's making less sense than usual, to which he smiles. Ibuki proclaims all that is left is to save Chisa, to which Akane and the rest of the class agree.

Mikan, now leading the group, approaches a large red door at the end of the corridor, pressing a button which opens the door, Akane and the rest of the class follow her inside. Once inside, Junko reveals multiple monitors showing Chiaki Nanami's Punishment, Akane horrified by what she is seeing, wants to find a way to save Chiaki but is powerless.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Akane, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. As the broadcast ends, Akane and the class falls silent, with a patterned swirl in their eyes, they have now lost their hope and become part of Ultimate Despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Akane and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher, and started reading a letter she prepared. Akane and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa started to cry. The patterned swirled return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. Akane expressed she will 'eat her fill'. After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activated a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Akane and her class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak's destruction.

Chisa's narration later reveals Akane helping the world fall into despair. One of her wrongdoings is killing random people that she met.

During the 
The members of Ultimate Despair did all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world. It is known that some members of Ultimate Despair starved themselves to feel despair, and considering Akane's constantly showcased love of eating, it's possible she may have been one of these individuals.

After the death of Junko, the remnants of the Ultimate Despair agreed to an insane plan to have Alter Ego Junko take over their bodies, so they could resurrect their leader.

The remnants of Despair were later found by Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi planned to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by Alter Ego Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
As members of Ultimate Despair, in the flashback, Akane and Nekomaru reinforced Fuyuhiko and Peko who were battling the Future Foundation, but all of them eventually captured by the Future Foundation.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Akane was one of the students who did not panic when they were transported to the Dangan Island. She, along with everyone else, went exploring after Usami dismissed them.

Akane is first seen at Usami's Corral and wandering about. When Hajime introduces himself, Akane asks who the other guy is. Nagito Komaeda gets slightly offended and tells her that they met already, and Akane suddenly remembers. Akane then introduces herself, and after that, she seems to be in a world of her own, as when Nagito asks Hajime if he likes sexy bodies loudly, she doesn't respond.

Akane is later shown with the rest of the group at the beach, and after the Ultimate Imposter finishes his story, she states that she doesn't care what the island is called, only that they still have to stay there. When everyone is talking about life on the island, she asks why they don't just swim back, but her solution is shot down by Mikan Tsumiki, who says it is too far.

Akane is one of the several students to throw the Usami stamp away, but when Usami mentions another surprise, Akane says that it might be a party and she is pleased to know that she was correct. However, Akane doesn't join to swim with the others.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
In Chapter 1, Akane eating Teruteru's food was essential in proving the fact that it was not drugged with laxatives as Peko Pekoyama had suffered from digestive problems throughout the night. She also eagerly volunteered to eat the bone-in-cut of meat that was alleged to conceal the murder weapon, vowing to devour the entire thing in a minute or less. Unfortunately, Akane was beaten to the punch by Monokuma, prompting her to angrily declare "That's MY meat!" when the Headmaster reappeared with the meat in tow. 

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
In Chapter 2, Akane is the first one to arrive at Jabberwock Park for Monokuma's announcement of the second motive, if only because he promised a bowl of homemade curry to the first person to arrive at the park. It was later revealed that the curry was made of several unsavory ingredients (such as live frogs), but Akane enjoyed it anyway.

When Sonia Nevermind invited the girls to a swimming party on the beach, Akane planned on going. However, when she arrived at the diner, she was covered in blood, due to getting into another scuffle with Nekomaru on the way. She was immediately dragged to the bathroom by Mikan for treatment.

During the investigation into Mahiru Koizumi's murder, Akane and Hajime revealed that the window leading out of the beach house inside the shower room could be exited through two people getting on one another's shoulders.

In the Class Trial, Akane helped clear Hiyoko of suspicion by pointing out that Hiyoko's inability to dress led her to smell as terrible as she did after the first Class Trial. Kazuichi briefly suspected her as the culprit due to her being covered in blood when she came to the diner, but Nekomaru confirmed that he had injured her in their fight since it was the only way to get her to back off. For Kazuichi's suspicion, Akane vowed to bend him in half until he was stuck in a bowing position for the rest of his life. She later threatened Nagito when he lamented being unable to help the killer with their plan, assuring Ibuki Mioda that they could "lightly punch him to death later". 

Akane later supported Hajime's claim that the culprit could have used a wooden sword as a step to reach the window, claiming that it was a classic ninja technique. 

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
In Chapter 3, when the others are at Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu's welcome back party, Akane challenges Monokuma to a duel, only to find herself outmatched. When Monokuma goes for the kill with a bazooka, Nekomaru steps in to save Akane, shielding her with his own body. Akane was stunned and heartbroken by the consequences of her rash decision but felt a small amount of hope when it was revealed that Nekomaru was still barely alive.

In the next day, Akane became one of the victims of Despair Disease, the motive of the third chapter. Under its influence, she became a cowardly crybaby, which most of the students initially dismissed as grief over Nekomaru's severe injuries.

After the third murder(s) was committed, Akane and Nagito were cured of the Despair Disease by Monokuma. Back to normal, they helped the others to investigate the murder of Ibuki and Hiyoko. During the investigation, Akane helped Hajime and Nagito find Hiyoko's motel key inside her kimono.

In the class trial, Akane kept insisting that Hiyoko was being abducted by the culprit, but this was disproved by Hajime as he explained that Hiyoko went to the music venue by her own free will. She refused to admit that the culprit of the third murder case, Mikan, is the person that treated her when she got the Despair Disease.

Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Electric Clocks?
In Chapter 4, when Akane and the rest of the group found out that Nekomaru turned into a robot, she didn't feel devastated or shocked, although she felt sorry for him. She believed that because of her recklessness, Nekomaru lost his human body.

After Akane and the rest of the group get trapped inside the Surprise House by Monokuma on the fourth island, she, Hajime, and the girls decided to stay at the Grape House while the boys excluding Hajime stay at the Strawberry House. She chose to stay in the poor/worst room because she was used to living in a poor house.

Chapter 5 - Smile at Hope in the Name of 
In Chapter 5, Akane, Fuyuhiko, and Kazuichi attempted to apprehend Nagito.

Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
Akane plays a side role in the final trial, she constantly asks questions in order to discover the truth behind the virtual game mystery, to which Hajime and Alter Ego Junko are able to provide an answer. She objectifies to forgetting everything they did on the island stating 'I don't want that!' and begins blaming their current ordeals on the Future Foundation themselves. However, she later starts to lose out into despair until a re-invoked Hajime convinces her of a new hope for the future. She eventually states that she wants to fight for what she believes in because that's what confidence truly is, the decision to start the shutdown sequence isn't just easy for her but for everyone because of a hope for the future.

Epilogue - The Day before the 
After the defeat of Alter Ego Junko, Akane and former Ultimate Despair members opted to stay on the Jabberwock Island, possibly in hopes that they could do something to help their comatose friends.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Akane appeared in Nagito's imaginary world following his death in the Neo World Program.

During the morning in the classroom, Akane is seen using two chairs as a stand to perform handstand push-ups to which Nekomaru observed.

She later attended Kazuichi's funeral after he was murdered by the World Destroyer Izuru. Akane, with an umbrella, waits in the rain after the service is finished before leaving.

Akane also appeared in Nagito's flashback during the events of the Killing school trip as his imaginary world is destroyed he began to remember the events that had transpired.

Real-
Nagito is awakened from the Neo World Program by Hajime. Akane along with the rest of Class 77-B board a ship to take them to the Future Foundation Headquarters.

Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Akane returned in Side: Hope alongside the rest of the Class 77-B, who had been resurrected by Izuru Kamukura although Izuru was now combined with the personality and memories of Hajime. They arrived at the island where the Future Foundation's off-shore facility was located, having left from Jabberwock Island and proceeded by rescuing Byakuya Togami and Yasuhiro Hagakure from being trapped under rubble, they then began their fight against Ryota's brainwashed rescue squad troops, including the Former Super High School Level Elite Task Force.

Venturing into the underwater facility beneath the main building, Akane commanded Teruteru to begin serving the meat he was cooking from a stove, swallowing it whole and giving her the energy to run at a very fast speed, bumping into Teruteru, causing him to spin uncontrollably. She faced off against the former Ultimate Street Performer, who began to throw knives at her continuously although she directed them away using only her teeth. The squad member, realizing his efforts were in vain, began to blow fire from his mouth but Akane is able to block this fire with two large chunks of meat. Taking a bite of this meat, she attacked by firing him into the air with one of the large pieces.

Later, Akane helped convince Ryota to abandon his plan to brainwash the world. When Hajime began persuading him to join them in atonement, she happily accepted Ryota. Upon leaving the broadcasting studio, Nagito held Makoto Naegi's hand and began to ramble about their comparable talents before being swiftly carried away by Nekomaru and Akane for speaking too long.

Shortly afterword, Akane and the other Former Remnants of Despair shoulder the blame for the Final Killing Game in a broadcast to the Future Foundation, presenting themselves in their despair persona and relieving the organization of any wrongdoing.

With the battle won, Akane and the Class 77-B return to Jabberwock Island by boat. She is last seen with Nekomaru, enjoying Teruteru's cooking.

Execution 
Main article: Akane Owari's Execution


Class 77-B:
Nekomaru 
Nekomaru is close to Akane due to their desire to improve themselves physically. She is constantly encouraging Nekomaru to fight her, although he usually rejects and states that she is quick and nimble but not very strong. This relationship is a coach and their student, but other than training to become stronger, Nekomaru and Akane are very close friends.

Akane was the most shocked to discover that he was a cyborg and was really depressed about his death. Despite Gundham being executed, she was still depressed, leading Kazuichi to use some of Nekomaru's remains to create a mini-Nekomaru to cheer her up. Progressing throughout the game after Nekomaru's death, sometimes Akane's mini Nekomaru makes outbursts after she has said something.

During their time at Hope's Peak Academy, Akane and Nekomaru would often fight, Nekomaru considering it training, but Akane considering it as a battle. The two were rather close despite their constant fighting. When the students were looking for the missing Mikan, Nekomaru agrees they should check the cafeteria after Akane gets hungry, and looks at her with a tender look when she is cheered up by this.

It's hinted that Nekomaru and Akane have romantic feelings for each other, with his massages and her reactions to those being quite suggestive. While under the effect of aphrodisiacs, Nekomaru is at first protective of her when something seems wrong and then bashful when she tells him not to touch her. The two then share a surprisingly romantic moment, being swooned and looking at each other.

In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, before graduation, Nekomaru states he will become Akane's manager to handle her paperwork and so they can train and have massages whenever they want.

Teruteru Hanamura 
Akane admires Teruteru's cooking skills and seen eating a lot of his cooking creations. Akane also treats him as a friend and doesn't mind about his perverted personality. In Danganronpa: Hope Arc, Teruteru, and Akane teamed up and defeat one of the Future Foundation soldiers. When everyone got on a ship, it was shown that Akane and Teruteru hung out and ate Teruteru's cooking along with Nekomaru.

In the Bonus Mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, he mentions that when he opens his restaurant, he will give Akane a call.

Ultimate Imposter 
While the Imposter and Akane don't interact much in the main story, Akane was happy when she thought the real Byakuya Togami was the Imposter brought back to life. In Ultimate Talent Development Plan, they bond over their mutual love of food. Despite their bonding, Akane is still unable to tell the difference between the Imposter and Byakya.

Reserve Course Students:
Hajime Hinata 
Hajime and Akane do not interact much in the main story, though they have a fairly decent relationship and he does worry about her when she is stricken with the Despair Disease. They eventually become close during her Free Time Events; Hajime is rather horrified to hear of the poverty and implied sexual abuse Akane went through growing up, especially her nonchalance towards it. Though she has difficulty remembering his name, she worries about Hajime not eating enough, in a similar way to how she worried about her younger siblings. He's annoyed by her forgetfulness and mentions thinking that she's a bit crazy, but he does envy her cheery attitude. During her final Free Time Events, she recalls his name correctly and accepts his advice about accepting and overcoming weakness rather than denying it.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Akane Owari
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Akane in order to learn more about her. If he gives Akane a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Akane will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Akane's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Akane's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567
Akane Owari Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Parkour	Street fighting	Obstacle course
Cosplay	No panties	Rollerskater
Are you worried about something?	Are you hurt?	Are you hungry?
Too many cooks spoil the broth	As long as we all run a red light...	Two heads are better than one
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 008 Prepackaged Orzotto DR2 Present 086 Century Potpourri

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Akane grants the following skills:

Peach Muscle	Increases your Truth Bullet rate of fire.
Effective during the Nonstop Debate and Rebuttal Showdown.	5 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Akane Owari

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"Yo! The name's Akane Owari! Nice to meetcha!"
"Meh, I don't care what this island's called. Nikoniko Island or Papua Island or whatever... Doesn't change the fact that we all gotta live here, right?"
Chapter 1:

"I can't help it... When I...get hungry, I lose most of my energy..."
"He sure is actin' like a tough guy... He's prolly tryin' to hide how scared he really is. Especially since his babyface ain't scary at all."
"No complainin', let's just settle this with our fists!"
"All right! I dunno what you're all talkin' about, but let's do our best for now!"
Chapter 2:

"All right! Let's find a way to leave this island!"
"Shut up! All I gotta do is win!"
"More importantly... There's a lotta strong dudes in this world, huh?"
"Heh, ya better not forget what you just said. My desire to win is pretty crazy! I won't give up until I beat ya!"
"I wanted...to keep eating his food."
"...Gah, grievin' like this isn't like me! I'm prolly actin' strange 'cause I'm so hungry! All right! All I gotta do is eat!"
"Man, the world is seriously huge... It's like a huge island filled with treasure."
"All right! Time to eat till I drop!"
"Hm? There somethin' wrong? Normally when you're bored, you fight, right?"
"This Class Trial stuff again... So this time we gotta figure out who killed Mahiru, huh... I don't get complicated stuff, so I'll leave this to you guys."
"Doubtin' me of all people, you got some nerve... All right! I'll bend your body in half so you're stuck in a bowing position for the rest of your life!"
"All right, if ya don't wanna friggin' get punched, just stand still and lemme punch ya!"
"But even if it's the motive, it's just a game, right? There's no reason to believe it's even true. Would you call a game like that...a strong motive?"
"I guess... Things aren't as excitin' if a shit stirrer like him ain't around!"
Chapter 3:

"I never get worried!"
"...You hear that, Fuyuhiko? Just relax and get some sleep. I'll be the one who avenges you!"
"I know that! I just hafta win, right!?"
"Speakin' of which, why don't I challenge my limits!? I'm gonna eat everythin' in the restaurant!"
"...Okay then, since I'm stuffed, I should go train now. If I don't do it, I won't get stronger... I have to do it."
"There's no need to worry about worryin'! I know coach Nekomaru is a monstrous guy. There's no way he's gonna die from somethin' like that... There's no doubt! Nekomaru is definitely gonna come back! S-So...when that happens...I'll make sure...I apologize to him. Cause I was too weak, and I caused him trouble... So when he comes back... I'll make sure...to say I'm sorry."
"When I think about Nekomaru...it's like...my knees start shakin'... That's weird... There's no way...I've got that kinda weakness. It'd prolly go away if I battled a strong dude, but Nekomaru's not here..."
"Hey, what're you whinin' about? Hurry and get this over with already! ...And then we can greet coach Nekomaru with open arms when he comes back!"
"Empty head...? Heh, what's wrong with that...? Listen up! The emptier your head, the more dreams you can stuff inside it, y'know!"
"Are you sayin' my gut was wrong? This could be my first and last highlight of the day; why won't ya just lemme shine already!? Shaddup! Enough with your fancy talk, I'll shut you up right now!"
"I-I get it...I lost. Boil me, burn me, take off my clothes... Do whatever ya want to me!"
"H-Hey...don'tcha think that's kinda impossible? A chick like her is the killer? She couldn't even kill a fly... In fact, the fly would prolly kill her first."
"Again with the supermarket... That place is a hot spot for criminal goods."
"Mikan nursed me till I got better... There's no way I'm gonna doubt her...!"
"D-Don't say deep stuff... I...don't really get it..." (to Chiaki)
Chapter 4:

"You stupid stuffed toy! Don't go screwin' with people's bodies like that!"
"Rollercoasters are the only reason to go to amusement parks! There's nothin' like a good thrill ride!"
"That train, huh... I don't think it'll be as fun as the rollercoaster... Well, I guess whatever we find in the Funhouse will be worth it!"
"Uh...was he serious about there bein' no food...? No way! That's the one thing I don't want! I don't mind starvin' as long as I can eat! Just lemme eat already!"
"Right now...the only thing I found out is... There's seriously no food anywhere! This ain't funny at all!"
"It's good enough for me. You guys might think it's pretty crappy, but it's a palace compared to my home."
"Well...I've been thinking about this statue. It's not alive or anything but it has a strong aura. I can't think of it as a regular human aura. This thing might be the most powerful creature on the island... Yessssss! That sure gets me goin'! Ogre or whatever, it's fine as long as it's strong!"
"Dammit...I lost again... I just can't unleash my power when I'm this hungry..."
"Why is Nekomaru...? Why did he have to die...again? Dammit... I never paid you back... I never paid you back...for your help last time! WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHH!"
"I'll definitely find out who killed coach Nekomaru... And after I kill that guy, you're next! I'll definitely destroy you! So even though it sucks, I'm gonna eat first! If I don't get some food in me, I can't unleash my full power!"
"I'm gonna do it... The killer...and you... I'm gonna beat the shit outta both of you with my bare hands...!"
"We need clues, right? I'll remember something, so just wait for it! Man, it's noisy! I can't focus at all with all this noise!"
"It's nothing... I was just holding back my anger...and dug my nails into my palm... This is nothing... It doesn't hurt at all...compared to Nekomaru...! I'll never forgive the killer! I'll beat 'em up so bad they'll never walk again!"
"Dammit... I...I...I can't do anything...! I never...paid him back... I can't even stop Nekomaru...from being used as evidence...!"
"Just hold on, Nekomaru! I'll make sure I avenge you!"
"I'm here today...because coach Nekomaru risked his life...to protect me... I'm gonna be the one who avenges him! I'll definitely find out who the killer is! ...I'm definitely not tempted by curry, got it!?"
"There's no way a chick would kill someone so cruelly... So it must be one of you Strawberry House dudes. One of you better hurry up and confess, or I'll break all of you in half!"
"You're pretty insightful, Baby Gangsta!"
"It's fine... Let's just leave him alone and find out who killed coach Nekomaru as fast as we can! ...Just so you know, it's not like I'm gettin' hungry or anythin', you know."
"I never misunderstand! I'll crush ya into dog food!"
"He's not the type to let out a scream!"
"If you don't hurry up and answer, I'm gonna suicide dive you!"
"It's not easy to get the drop on coach Nekomaru!"
"Stop...stop it already... Stop using weird words to avoid the truth... Or...I'll friggin' kill you myself!"
"Dammit...! DAMMIT!!! I'm so pissed off...I need to throw something...! You all spent so much time worryin' about each other... And thanks to that...things ended up like this... You're all...full of shit... Every last one of you... But the biggest piece of shit...is me! Dammit...! Why am I so weak...!?"
"Now then... All right, after feeling down for so long, I finally feel refreshed! Let's hurry back and eat some food! Well, you know...it's like Gundham and Nekomaru said... That's what it means to live...right?"
Chapter 5:

"Don't be so stuck up! Your stuff is my stuff, right?"
"Assumin' we were thinkin' about runnin' away was a mistake... Cause if we can't run, we'll fight! I'll crush everyone who put us through this crap in one blow!"
"I'll do Nekomaru's share of the grunt work...! I'm pretty confident about my strength. As long as nobody grabs my tail, there won't be any problems."
"It's pretty refreshing to eat food by the pool."
"I just hafta find the source of the problem and snap it off!"
"Seriously...I messed up... I made you freak out... It's like I wasn't myself anymore... I didn't even realize what I was doin'... I'm surprised at myself..."
"A-Are you seriously gonna stop me!? I thought your family was all about breakin' the law!"
"Stop whinin' and complainin'! We should do it one at a time!"
"Wh-What're we gonna do!? All we can do now is pray for rain!"
"Then let's hurry up and solve Nagito's case so we can all go back home!"
"Who cares about the duct tape...? We might as well settle this with Rock Paper Scissors."
"I know guys have tails that get hard when the're grabbed!"
"At times like this, you should always strike from a good angle. Just like fixin' an old TV."
"Then let's bring up whatever we can think of, one after the other. That might clear some things up."
"It's fine, okay!? There are some things we're better off not knowin'!"
"All right, looks like it's finally my turn! I'll punch Monokuma so hard he'll go flyin' around the world! As long as coach Nekomaru and me are here, we won't lose! Just leave it to us!"
Chapter 6:

"As long as I don't beat the crap outta Monokuma, nothin's gonna be solved...is that what it means!?"
"Graduation exam, huh... I'm not really good at takin' exams... Well, I guess it's better than people dyin'! All right! I'm gonna do it!"
"D-Don't talk like that... Like we're made from memories of the past... Like we're avatars... Like this is a game world... How'd we end up talkin' about sci-fi crap!? I'll never believe it!"
"What game world...? What avatar...? I'm a human being with a real body!"
"I...can feel my heartbeat... And I know what I smell like... So what do you call these things I'm feelin'? Are you sayin' these are all lies!?"
"Wh-What are you sayin'!? Haven't we been workin' this hard just to escape from here!?"
"If we don't get outta here now, then what was everything we've done up till now even for!?"
"Hey, if you know what's good for you, you better hurry the hell up and confess... I'll beat ya half to death if you tell us now, but if ya don't spit it out soon, I'm just gonna kill ya!"
"You better not be bluffin'! I'm gonna beat the crap outta you and pull your stuffin' out!"
"Well, if a high school girl can get huge, then it's not crazy if the dead can come back to life...right?"
"Of course! We've been workin' toward that goal for, like, forever!"
"Plus, everyone can go back together! So there's no reason to hesitate!"
"Who do we trust!?"
"B-Byakuya...you're alive...! But you're so skinny now...I feel so bad for you...!" (Mistaking the real one with the Imposter version of him)
"...There's no way we can handle this on our own."
"I don't like thinkin' about complicated stuff... If there's someone strong worth fightin', I'll fight... That's just who I am, y'know? ...That's what it means to be confiden, right? Then...I'm gonna choose this!"
"But it's okay, right? It makes sense to feel scared, right?"
"If you start talkin' weird later Hajime, I'll beat you up till you turn back to normal!"

Her first name (赤音) can be translated to "red sounds" or "red noise", while her last name (終里) is composed of the characters 終 - "last" or "to finish" and 里, which has multiple meanings, including "village", "the home of one's parents", "hometown" and also an archaic Japanese unit of area.
Her last name could be a reference to how, as her Free Time Events imply, her father used to marry multiple women in succession and have children with each one.
Akane's birthday of July 15th falls on the same day as the Japanese Bon Festival. The festival originates from the story of Mokuren, in which a disciple of Buddha must appease the Realm of Hungry Ghosts with offerings and sacrifices in order to release his deceased mother's soul. In the modern Bon Festival, people honor their hungry ancestors with food and drink as offerings. Akane's major character trait is her bottomless appetite and craving for food, clearly in reference to this Festival.
In the original Japanese, Akane uses the word ore (俺) to refer herself instead of watashi or atashi (私), which is a boastful form of "I" typically used by males; however, unlike Hajime, she doesn't end her sentences with the usual matching accompaniment of da zo.
Akane knows a wrestling move called Plancha Suicida, or Suicide Dive.
Akane doesn't go swimming at the Beach Party because she finds school swimsuits to be too embarrassing.
In Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, Akane's berserk-state in Episode 02 is a reference to Gon Freecs' infamous transformation from the Hunter × Hunter series.
Akane's English voice actress, Wendee Lee, also voices Teruteru Hanamura's Mother and Miu Iruma.

The Ultimate Imposter's real appearance is that of a person with long, black hair and green eyes. Their age is unknown, though they appear to be in their early twenties. They have a very heavy build, yet they can fool others with their disguises despite that.

Their gender is unknown, but they are able to give off a largely male impression while disguised as Byakuya and even mimic his voice and poses perfectly. In Danganronpa 3, their real voice is quite deep and masculine. However, originally in Danganronpa 2, the brief glimpse of their apparent real voice sounded notably different, more high-pitched and rather gender neutral. The Imposter also refused to go swimming in front of others, which implies that removing their clothes would reveal their true gender.

"Byakuya Togami"
As Byakuya, the imposter appears very similar to the real one, having platinum blond hair and bright blue eyes accompanied by rectangular, white-framed glasses. Their shirt appears to be the same one as the real Byakuya in the first game, however, "Byakuya" is very large set and wears a white dinner jacket, white slacks, and white dress shoes. 

As an Ultimate Despair, the imposter, still disguised as "Byakuya", wears night vision goggles that shone red light from within.

"Ryota Mitarai" 
As Ryota, the imposter has short, light brown hair, hazel eyes and rosy cheeks. They wear a Hope's Peak Academy uniform with a green tie.

"Kyosuke Munakata" 
As Kyosuke, the imposter has short white hair and dark purple eyes. They wear a white suit that Kyosuke wears in Future Arc.

The 
Ultimate Imposter impersonating Byakuya.
Imposter Ryota
Impersonating Ryota.
DR3Hope Ultimate Imposter Munakata
Impersonating Munakata.


Ultimate Imposter's true personality is somewhat unclear, because they spend most of their time mimicking someone else's behavior. However, during chapter 6 of the second game, they speak briefly without disguise and it's implied that their real nature is polite and meek. In Danganronpa 3, they're shown to have a quite serious personality.

Most notably, the imposter appears to have a truly kind and caring personality. They impersonated Ryota Mitarai so that the real one could focus on making anime, as well as get some rest, and kept checking on his well-being even after a year of impersonating him. The imposter is also shown to be smiling in a friendly manner and being protective and supportive to others even while acting as the cold and arrogant Byakuya Togami. As part of their Byakuya impersonation, they act arrogant, rude and somewhat bad-tempered, but they're also reliable and feel responsible of others' safety.

The imposter enjoys their build, which appears to be their aim, as they've stated to have intentionally sculpted their physique to be that way (while acting as Byakuya, they appear condescending towards "skinny people", though this is most likely part of their act). They have a strong liking for food, especially fast food; while they normally appear attentive, they are rather easily distracted by food. They are shown to be surprisingly passionate on the topics related to food and eating, such as body fat percentages, the amount of energy coming from specific foods, and fast food restaurants. They explained that, since virtually all fast food restaurants serve the same kind of food, it gives them a sense of security to keep being around something familiar.

Due to their nature as an imposter, they have a lack, if not absence of, self-esteem. Because of it, they feel very lonely as if they do not exist. They simply want to exist and live a normal life, but they believe they cannot unless they assume someone else's appearance and "disappear" if they're found out. They describe their life as a living hell, as they're in constant need of affirmation and they have to lie to other people. Because of this, they preferred not to become close with other people, thinking that only thing in the world you can truly rely on and believe in is "fats and sugars".

At one point, in Danganronpa 2, they ask if Hajime Hinata likes being around them, and they seemed very happy when Hajime answers that they are friends. After spending time with Hajime, they are convinced that they really do exist, and they decide they don't want to lie anymore and wish to live as their true self with their friends. Despite having better sense of self, it's shown in Side: Hope that they still prefer being in disguises (albeit only physically).


Ultimate Imposter 
The Ultimate Imposter doesn't have a name, family register, relatives, and anything that could identify their true identity. In order to have their existence acknowledged, they took other people's data and learned it so they could able to impersonate them flawlessly. They could impersonate the person in question's voice and personality perfectly.

No one could tell the difference between the Ultimate Imposter and the real person that they impersonated. According to Monokuma, even their noticeably heavy body build does not affect their ability to fool others. This, along with the fact that they are capable of changing their appearance extremely quickly without anyone noticing, implies that their talent is near superhuman.

In Danganronpa 3, all of the Class 77-B, even Chisa doesn't recognize the real Ryota Mitarai's true appearance until they accidentally met with Chisa who wondered how the real Ryota could lose his weight in a very short time.

In Despair Arc #09, they revealed to their classmates that they were a fake version of Ryota and decided to become themselves afterward.


Prior to the 
The Ultimate Imposter is a person who was born with nothing - no name, family, birth certificate nor home; or more simply, no identity at all. They were convinced that they were nothing; their existence completely invisible and their life without any meaning. All they wanted was to live a normal life.

Because of this, they chose to live on stealing another person's identity, hence their true Ultimate title. They hated this way of living, which made them unhappy and forced them to lie to other people, but they felt it was something they had to do in order to exist. It appears they found comfort in fast food which was always similar regardless of location. They became very enthusiastic about food and decided to gain a heavier build.

When the Ultimate Imposter enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy's Class 77-B, they acted as Byakuya Togami because he had the most absolute existence the Imposter had ever seen. However, they soon began to impersonate Ryota Mitarai, so that the other boy could spend all his time on animating. Ryota worked too much and often forgot to eat, and his imposter often checked on him and brought him food, and the two lived together.

During his second year at Hope's Peak Academy, the Imposter met Junko and was corrupted into Ultimate Despair by her.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak Academy 
"Ryota Mitarai" was working on some of his animations as an "animator" in the Former Student Dorm. His room was very dirty and filled with instant ramen cups, unwashed dishes, manga, books, and files. As his new homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome knocked on his door, he began to panic, thinking that the one who knocked on the door was his boss. Due to some unfinished work, the Imposter attempted to escape via windows only to be found by Chisa. She greeted him happily and dragged him back to the school, while the Ultimate Imposter tried to use various excuses to stay behind.

The Ultimate Imposter once again tried to escape from Chisa when they encountered Hajime and Chiaki Nanami in the park, but he was immediately tied up by Chisa. After returning to class, Chisa told everyone that even though the school rule said that attending class was not necessary and that they could skip to better hone their talents, interacting with one another would help build their characters and help them to make memories.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
The Ultimate Imposter was drawing sketches inside his class while Akane Owari and Nekomaru Nidai wreaked havoc during their training session. He went outside to better focus before he met Chiaki, who was upset that his friends didn't come as group so well. The Ultimate Imposter said that he didn't need to make group, as long as he honed his talents, he already grasped his future.

During the break time after they played games together, the Ultimate Imposter and his classmates happily ate Teruteru and Hiyoko Saionji's nikujaga. He ate a big portion of the food and saw Nagito crying due to the food's deliciousness. Unlike the rest of his classmates, the Ultimate Imposter merely writhed around on the ground after being affected by the food's aphrodisiacs.

After everyone recovered, Chisa gathered the Ultimate Imposter and his classmates inside the classroom, announcing that she elected Chiaki as their class representative. Like the others, the Ultimate Imposter agreed with her decision.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, the Ultimate Imposter was talking to someone on his phone while he and his classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building.

The Ultimate Imposter was shown drawing a sketch on the school's park with his classmates during the break time.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Suprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
Along with his classmates, the Ultimate Imposter showed no spirit when he listened to Chisa's announcement about the annual practical exam due to the deaths of Natsumi Kuzuryu and Sato that affected their morale greatly.

At the end of the episode, the Ultimate Imposter and his classmates bid their farewell to their beloved teacher Chisa as she transferred to the Reserve Course after the bombing incident on the gym that involved one of her students, Nagito.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the End 
The Ultimate Imposter advised Ryota to eat something and take a break, but Ryota doesn't listen and eventually passes out from exhaustion and malnutrition. The imposter finds Mikan and brings her to help care for Ryota, and to avoid confusion, explains their backstory with Ryota.

Mikan assumes that the imposter won't let her leave alive now that she knows his secret, but the imposter gently tells her to not be silly. Mikan assumes they want to have sex with her, which isn't true. Mikan starts crying and thanks them, saying no one has ever been so nice to her. The imposter advices her to toughen up since they will be upperclassmen starting tomorrow.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
The Ultimate Imposter is seen talking to Ryota, reminding him to go to the hospital.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
After Class 77-B move to the new school building, the Ultimate Imposter informed Mikan that they haven't heard news of Ryota since a week ago after he left a note that he would focus on his work.

As the news of The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy widespread and caused the Reserve Course students to riot, the Ultimate Imposter and their classmates worried about their school condition. After Ryota left, the Ultimate Imposter received a note from Mikan, saying that she is helping Ryota.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by 
After hearing from Nagito upon his return that he saw Tsumiki around the West District of the school, the Ultimate Imposter grabs him by the scruff of the neck and demands him to give more information. Nagito picks on their sudden change of character before the Ultimate Imposter plays it down as getting overly excited. They and the rest of the class go searching for Tsumiki on the school grounds, going around in a group with Akane and Nekomaru, Akane begins to think about food and asks if the Ultimate Imposter is hungry to which they reply no awkwardly.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Having failed to locate Mikan, the Ultimate Imposter and their classmates return to the classroom. Chiaki shows up carrying Nagito and explains that Chisa is in danger. Mikan also turns up with a wounded Peko. Chiaki rallies the class to go help Chisa, and the Ultimate Imposter rips off their Ryota mask, revealing their real face. They admit they have been deceiving them all because of their talent, and feels it is time they all know the truth. The class rushes to go and save Chisa, but they encounter some angry Reserve Course students. Nekomaru and Gundham stay to hold them off while the rest continue underground. As they walk down the stairs, Chiaki says she feels that together they can do anything. The Ultimate Imposter says that they feel the same way now that Chiaki has said it.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope 
The Ultimate Imposter and the class continue down the corridor after making their descent of the stairway, Mikan eventually catching up with them. After a door is flung open unexpectedly, with multiple eyes appearing in the darkness, Kazuichi screams loudly, catching the attention and dismay of the Ultimate Imposter and the rest of the class. Only to find it was Nekomaru and Gundham, the class relieved that they are both okay. Ibuki proclaims all that is left is to save Chisa, to which the Ultimate Imposter and the rest of the class agree.

Mikan, now leading the group, approaches a large red door at the end of the corridor, pressing a button which opens the door, the Ultimate Imposter and the rest of the class follow her inside. Once inside, Junko reveals multiple monitors showing Chiaki Nanami's Punishment, Sonia responding saying 'she can't move' leads the Ultimate Imposter to question if it's 'the video'. Horrified by what they are seeing, they want to find a way to save Chiaki but are powerless.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees the Ultimate Imposter, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. As the broadcast ends, the Ultimate Imposter and the class fall silent, with a patterned swirl in their eyes, they are now Ultimate despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
The Ultimate Imposter and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher, and started reading a letter she prepared, the Ultimate Imposter and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa started to cry. The patterned swirled return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. The Ultimate Imposter tearfully expressed they could 'become anyone' they wanted, even president.

After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activated a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. The Ultimate Imposter and their classmates stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak Academy's destruction.

Chisa's narration later revealed that the Ultimate Imposter helped infect the world with despair.

During the 
The members of Ultimate Despair did all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world.

After the death of Junko, the remnants of the Ultimate Despair agreed to an insane plan to have AI Junko take over their bodies, so they could resurrect their leader.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
Impersonating Byakuya Togami, the Ultimate Imposter is seen in the flashback as a member of Ultimate Despair nimbly dodging Future Foundation's attack with their night vision goggles.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
The remnants of Despair are later found by Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by AI Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
While in the Neo World Program, the Ultimate Imposter acts as Byakuya Togami, as they have lost their school memories.

In the very beginning, Byakuya was not very sociable with the others, making his introduction short and simple. He also refused to join in on the short-lived beach party.

After Monokuma took over the island and ordered the Island Life of Mutual Killing, Byakuya immediately began to take action, making himself the leader of the group and promising the safety of all the students.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
The next day, after Monokuma revealed the truth about everybody's memories having been erased as well as the presence of a traitor in their group, Byakuya proposes the idea to hold a party that very night without explaining his reason.

At a suggestion, they gain a permission from Monomi to use the Old Lodge next to the Lobby as the location for the party, as the area has no monitors for Monokuma to spy on them from. As the Old Lodge was old, when it came to choosing who should clean the place, Nagito offered to draw straws that he had prepared beforehand. Nagito won the lottery, thanks to his luck, and accepted the duty to clean the lodge while Teruteru offered to cook for the party. Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu refused to attend the party, and though the other students questioned it, Byakuya allowed him to go.

Throughout the party, Byakuya showed strange levels of precaution that many of the students questioned. He went as far as to hold a body check at the entrance of the party, patting down every student whether female or male and confiscating any materials that they considered dangerous in a duralumin case (such as taking a wrench away from Kazuichi Soda).

When they saw the food set out in the main room of the Old Lodge, he seemed to be alarmed before suddenly digging in to the churrasco Teruteru prepared for the party, much to the surprise of the other members and the dismay of Akane.

Their reason was revealed to be that the churrasco was pierced by large skewers which he deemed extremely dangerous. He subsequently went to the kitchen to confiscate any sharp objects from knives to skewers based on the list hung up in there, though he noted that one of the items on the list seemed to be missing. 

When the party was about to start, he decided to keep the duralumin case full of confiscated potential weapons in the Surveillance Room/Office. Peko Pekoyama volunteered to guard the duralumin case and keep watch over the party there, as the place had several security monitors.

Chiaki Nanami and Monomi offered to keep watch outside as to keep Monokuma from finding them and crashing the party. Other than the duralumin case kept in the Office, Byakuya kept a second one beside them at the party, the contents of which were unknown at the time.

Midway through the party around 11:30 pm, a sudden blackout, combined with the blocked windows of the lodge, caused the interior of the building to go completely dark. It was revealed that Byakuya had kept several self-defense and precautionary items in the second duralumin case, using night vision goggles to see what was going on.

In the darkness, he saw Nagito acting suspiciously, trying to retrieve something from under a table, and reacted immediately by diving under the table and pushing him out of the way. He found that a knife was stationed under the table, held in place by glow-in-the-dark tape and its handle covered in the same material.

Teruteru, who knew of Nagito's suspicious activity as well, waited in preparation under the floorboards for the knife to move. He blindly stabbed at whoever was under the table with the missing skewer from earlier and ended up killing Byakuya.

Chapter 5 - Smile at Hope in the Name of 
In Chapter 5, much later in the game, Hajime went into Nagito's room for investigation purposes for the upcoming Fifth Trial. In there, he found the files that Nagito had received from Monokuma as a prize for clearing the Final Dead Room in Chapter 4, and discovered that the Byakuya he thought they had all known was actually an imposter. 'Byakuya's profile listed '???' for his name, age, birthdate, and even gender, and their Ultimate talent as the 'Ultimate Imposter'.

Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
In the 'Game Reset' scene of Chapter 6, "Byakuya" makes a re-appearance, but their way of talking and their voice is no longer Byakuya Togami; instead, their voice has changed into a gender-neutral one, and they wonder if they should re-introduce himself. Whether this is the Ultimate Imposter's true face or simply an illusion created by Hajime is unknown.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
The Ultimate Imposter is rendered comatose, just like most of his classmates. The survivors of the Killing Game wait for them and the rest of their classmates to wake up.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
The Ultimate Imposter returned in Byakuya's form as a part of Nagito's imaginary world following their death from the Neo World Program.

Before class began in the morning, the Ultimate Imposter is seen conversing with Ryota happily.

The Ultimate Imposter later attended Kazuichi's funeral due to him being murdered by the World Destroyer.

Real-
After Nagito awoke from the simulation, he learned that all of his friends, including the Ultimate Imposter, were alive and awake from the Neo World Program. He boarded the boat with the rest of Class 77-B and they all then headed for the Future Foundation Headquarters.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of 
Thanks to Hajime mixed with Izuru's incredible abilities, the Ultimate Imposter and the other fallen Remnants of Despair awoke from their coma. They and the others were taken off of Jabberwock Island and brought to the Future Foundation off-shore facility. They then took the form of Kyosuke Munakata and joined Kyosuke in battle.

Later, they took the form of Ryota again and talked Ryota out of using the Hope brainwashing video. They and their classmates then invite Ryota to come and live with them. Ryota ended the broadcast of his Hope Video and fell to the floor in tears, The Ultimate Imposter holding him in a comforting embrace.

As they departed, the Imposter assumed the form of Byakuya. They showed concern for Ryota as he appeared to be even skinnier than they remembered. They smiled at Ryota as they recalled the advice they had always given him during their time at Hope's Peak Academy, that the only thing you can really believe in is 'fats and sugars'.


Class 77-B:
Ryota 
Fellow member of the 77th class of Hope's Peak Academy. At some point after the Class 78th entered Hope's Peak, the Imposter helped out Ryota and got his permission to impersonate him. While the Imposter attended class, Ryota stayed at the apartment to make anime. The Ultimate Imposter became good friends with Ryota, but often worried about him because Ryota was starting to abandon his own health to focus on making anime. One day, when Ryota becomes ill due to starvation, the Imposter shared their secret with Mikan just to get her to help him.

According to the relationship chart, Ryota questions if the Ultimate Imposter taking his place is really okay, showing that he was concerned at first about the morality of the situation.

However, when Ultimate Imposter joins Ultimate Despair, their friendship with Ryota comes to an end because the latter decides to join the Future Foundation.

After the Imposter returns from their coma, they along with the other Remnants of Despair convince Ryota not to release his Hope Brainwashing video. Ryota was happiest to see the Imposter, and after deciding not to release the video, the Imposter hugs Ryota who cries into their arms. Afterwards, the Imposter introduces Ryota to their class while showing concern that Ryota isn't eating well because he looks skinnier than he remembers. The two are shown to have become close friends once again.

Mikan 
While the two almost never interacted in the game, the Imposter's relationship with Mikan is explored in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc. When Ryota's health started to worsen, the Imposter shared their secret with Mikan in order to get the Ultimate Nurse to help his friend. Surprisingly, the Imposter was not worried about sharing their secret with Mikan, placing their full trust in her. Mikan agreed to keep their secret. The Imposter was very kind with Mikan and encouraged her to be more confident due to her shy nature. Because Mikan did not receive this kind of treatment often, she took a liking to them, and the two become close friends.

The Ultimate Imposter was arguably the most worried about Mikan when she disappeared from class all of a sudden. When Nagito claims he saw Mikan on his way to the school, the Imposter threatened Nagito on instinct, only to apologize afterwards.

Ibuki 
Ibuki admires Ultimate Imposter while they are impersonating as Byakuya Togami, thinking that they're very cool and reliable and she admires their leadership skills. They are sometimes a bit annoyed with her.

During chapter 2, after his death, she states that she misses "Byakuya" a lot. In addition, during chapter 5 when she and the other deceased characters show up, she greets him by oinking and explaining that she said "You're so cool" in pig talk.

While not apparent in the game, many manga adaptations portray Ibuki with some sort of crush on the imposter and she's often shown to be attracted to his heavy build. Though, it should be noted that the manga are non-canon.

Nagito 
Unlike most of their classmates, Ultimate Imposter didn't seem to outright hate Nagito or show any disdain toward him, though they were sometimes a little confused by their strange behavior. They sat beside Nagito while they ate and were willing to talk with him, asking why he was tearing up while eating. They were also the only one of his classmates to ask about Nagito's expulsion.

Akane Owari 
While the Imposter and Akane don't interact much in the main story, Akane was happy when she thought the real Byakuya Togami was the Imposter brought back to life. In Ultimate Talent Development Plan, they bond over their mutual love of food. Despite their bonding, Akane is still unable to tell the difference between the Imposter and Byakya.

Reserve Course Student:
Hajime 
Ultimate Imposter never held any close relationships with anyone on the Island in their short time there. However, upon getting their Free-Time Events, they become rather close to Hajime. They engage in various discussions, one being about fast food, with him, and later tells him a strange story about a person who was absolutely nothing and so, lived on as another person to be something which later turned out to be about themself.

When Hajime tells them that he considers them a friend, they soften greatly, even changing the way they address Hajime (normally, Byakuya addresses everyone as omae which is a rude and somewhat egotistical method of saying 'you'; however, after this event, he briefly calls Hajime kimi, which is a friendlier, same-level method of saying 'you' before going back to omae at Hajime's request) in the original Japanese. Ultimate Imposter also says that one day, they will reveal their true story to Hajime, though they were murdered before they could.

During Island Mode, Ultimate Imposter explains their true identity to Hajime. After becoming friends with Hajime, they are convinced that they really do exist, and they decide that they don't want to lie anymore and wish to live as their true self. In Hajime's official relationship chart, the Ultimate Imposter considers Hajime a worthy partner.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Byakuya Togami (Danganronpa 2)
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to the Ultimate Imposter in order to learn more about him. If he gives the Ultimate Imposter a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and the Ultimate Imposter will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to the Ultimate Imposter's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished the Ultimate Imposter's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567X
Ultimate Imposter's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Chicken	Beef	Pork
Fast food	Convenience store	Family restaurant
I don't like you	I can't say	I like you
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 009 Chocolate Chip Jerky DR2 Present 013 Sweet Bun Bag DR2 Present 017 Cocoshimi DR2 Present 045 Black Rabbit Picture Book

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with the Ultimate Imposter grants the following skills:

Sting	When you find Monocoins, you'll earn more than usual.	Passive
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Byakuya Togami (Danganronpa 2)

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"My name is Byakuya Togami..."
"Move along! That's the only thing you skinny types are good at, it seems."
"Small dogs shouldn't bark so loud."
"There's no other choice but to believe...for now, that is."
"No matter how confused or upset you are, I don't mind. However, remember this... I don't know who in the world is orchestrating this but... We don't need to be cautious of those machines...or even of whoever's controlling them... More than anything, we must be cautious of... ...Ourselves. Being brought to a tropical island with complete strangers, and ordered to kill each other to escape... That creates fear in our minds, and the desire to escape that hopeless fear... ...is our worst enemy."
Chapter 1:

"Let me say this... Do not even think about copying what I do. This much food is beyond you lowly peasants... I'm the only one who could possibly eat this much food, for I've overcome the hardships of the past..."
"Why you... Do you have any idea how much money I spent sculpting my physique?"
"Since it's impossible to face our enemy as individuals under these circumstances, we must fight as a group... However, what we need to achieve that solidarity is not something as easygoing and optimistic as a ..."bond." What we need right now is a disciplined leadership, provided by an unmistakable leader!"
"Who is more fit to lead other than me? I am the Ultimate Affluent Progeny of the Togami household, destined to stand above all others."
"Don't worry, as long as I'm the leader, I won't let anyone become a victim. I will guide you all! That much, I promise."
"This island is full of mysteries that we can't begin to imagine..."
"You're right... It's mysteries on top of mysteries... However, since these mysteries are overlapping with one another, I doubt some no-name group is behind this..."
"So what we must do now is find out who our enemy is. If we do that, we'll be that much closer to a breakthrough."
"There's no time to think about something as foolish as killing each other. You must do what you have to do. Observe, speculate, recognize, comprehend. Even if it seems impossible...just persevere. But most importantly, follow my lead. I'll make sure to return you all to your normal lives. This is your leader's order. Understand?"
"Why would I get mad at something as petty as that...? She observed me directly and thought up a nickname. There's nothing dishonest about a name like that... Perhaps...I've always yearned for this. Though it may seem ironic for me to realize that in this particular situation..."
"I do not intend to dismiss your feelings. There was a time when I also thought the same way as you... But what would reckless killing accomplish? If you fail to get away with it, you know you'll be executed... Or perhaps...that's what you really want? If so... You'd only be killing yourself to run away from this predicament. That's what a child would do. Listen! So long as we're here, I will not let any of you die! I will not let any of you become a victim! And that goes for you too, Fuyuhiko. I won't let you die!"
"It's true my words would ring hollow if anyone else spoke them... But I am Byakuya Togami, and I am destined to bring these promises to fruition."
"Do what you will. However, remember what I said earlier. "I will not let any of you become a victim." That is the duty I have appointed to myself."
"Just so you all know... Do not think about unnecessary things. This is your leader's order."
"If I'm to fulfill the promsie I made to not let anyone become a victim, I must be extra vigilant."
"Distrusting others...and being distrusted in turn... For a long time, my life has been a living hell. It was inevitable that I would end up this way. But in this kind of situation, my skeptical nature might be of good use. If we're to survive here, skepticism is necessary at all costs."
"When you're as special as me...you get special privileges."
"Our opponent is not someone we can just fight. Rather, it's better if we use our heads and think of a plan..."
Chapter 5:

"~|~|d&#wGuidewyou-p^l??u?`+`Fate_jofttheTogamiClan2389" (Byakuya's cottage post-fifth trial)
"Believe that hope lies beyond this point! That is your leader's order!"

In their Free Time Events, the Ultimate Imposter implies that the reason they chose to put on so much weight was in order to ensure survival should they ever have to withstand extreme cold.
Like Junko and Izuru, the Imposter has no listed likes or dislikes. This may be due to their background where they have nothing that pertains to their true identity.
Their title was translated as the Ultimate Swindler instead of Ultimate Imposter in the PC version of the English localization of the second game's ending s, despite the fact that they were referred to as Imposter earlier in the game.
In Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School, the voice actor portraying both Ryotas, Kanata Hongō, also portrayed Makoto Naegi in Danganronpa: Kibō no Gakuen to Zetsubō no Kōkōsei THE STAGE (2014).

The AI takes the appearance of the real-life Chiaki, a teenage girl around the age of 17–18 years. 

Chiaki has short, pale mauve hair which is slightly curled. She wears a white clip in the shape of the spaceship from Galaga to the side of her face and has pale pink eyes. She wears a one button blue-grey cardigan,with a hood that has pointed ears on the top and two pink markings on the front.

Chiaki is often seen wearing a pink cat-like backpack as well. Under her hoodie, she wears a white buttoned shirt with a pink ribbon and a pale brown skirt. Chiaki also wears thigh highs the same color as her jacket and pink shoes.

She is seen wearing a white bikini swimsuit during Chapter 2.


Chiaki normally has a quiet and sleepy disposition, but she becomes a lot more lively when discussing games and concentrates hard when playing. She often uses gaming terms and game references. She has a number of unusual habits, such as dozing off while playing games and taking long pauses during her conversations to think about everything she wants to say. She sometimes even sleeps while standing and forgets to breathe when she's playing games.

Chiaki is very calm and she once mentioned that she has never screamed. She often helps Hajime Hinata during Class Trials and provides important points. She can be stern and bluntly honest, at times forgetting to take other people's feelings into consideration.

While Chiaki is extremely observant and analytical, she lacks knowledge on a variety of ordinary subjects due to the nature of her existence - for example, she doesn't know where milk comes from (she mentions that she knows how babies are made, though). She doesn't really understand how romantic love works and she is curious about it. She also feels a bit uncomfortable around animals, because they're unpredictable and feel warm when touched, which is "a bit scary" in her opinion. She is occasionally a bit playful and tries to make jokes or little pranks on Hajime, though they're a bit weird and sometimes borderline creepy.

Chiaki usually ends her sentences with a negative note even though she actually means to compliment someone or cheering someone, such as "...I think", or "Maybe...". Hajime once said that sometimes he wishes that Chiaki would end her positive sentence on a positive note. However, she truly does care about and wants to protect everyone. She dislikes killing more than anything and she gets very serious about the topic. She is the nicest towards Monomi and she is understanding towards Nagito even though his actions frustrate her.

While she is based on some of human Chiaki's traits, AI Chiaki differs from her in some ways. Unlike the human, she appears constantly sleepy and her way of speaking is much less natural sounding. As an AI she also appears unusually calm and unfazed, even during her own execution, which is very different from the human Chiaki's much more human and painful reaction. She also has her own identity as an AI created by Chihiro, considering him her "dad" and Alter Ego and Usami her siblings. Some of Chiaki's behavior also appears a bit childlike, most notably her handwriting and drawings that resemble ones of a young child, which could be a result of her being a relatively young AI. However, she matures throughout the course of the game and in the end, she even seems to be able to resist her programming, albeit just a little bit.


Ultimate 
Chiaki is the Ultimate Gamer, a talented person that doing very good at any genre games, even bad ones. She always finds out how to enjoy any genre of games that she plays. She states that the sole goal of playing games is to have fun, not to just focus on winning or losing. However, Chiaki does have one type of game that she can’t play very well: Dating simulators. Chiaki tends to focus too much when playing games, to the point that she forgets to sleep and even breathe.

In other 
Chiaki's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Gamer
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「ゲーマー」	Super High School Level Gamer
Français Ultime Gameuse	Ultimate Gamer

During the 
Being an AI, Chiaki has existed only for a few years and only exists inside the Neo World Program.

She was created either soon before or after the Tragedy started. Along with her "sister" Usami, she works for the Future Foundation and moderates the others on the virtual Jabberwock Island as NPCs/Observers.

She was created by Chihiro and considers him her father, but she has no memory of him though she has heard many things about him. She was presumably modified by her "big brother" Alter Ego after Chihiro's death.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Inside the Neo World Program, Chiaki is seen playing Gala Omega when she meets Hajime. She introduced herself as the Ultimate Gamer and says that it is nice to meet Hajime, before giving a polite bow. Hajime introduced himself, saying that it is nice to meet her as well. The two then shake hands.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Chiaki stayed unusually calm in upheaval, such as when Usami revealed herself and when Monokuma took over the island from Usami and began the Killing School Trip. She did not believe anyone would kill, however.

When Hajime first sees her, she is deeply engrossed in a game at the Hotel Lobby, only stopping after Nagito calls her. She awkwardly introduces herself, Hajime stating that she isn't very good at conversations. Nagito then says that Chiaki is still playing the game, to which she agrees and she also states that she needs to compose what she's going to say in her head. Chiaki then states she's tired, ending the conversation.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
In the first chapter, Chiaki was worried about Monokuma infiltrating the party that the Ultimate Imposter arranged, so she stood guard outside the old hotel lodge alongside Monomi in order to keep Monokuma out of it.

Chiaki encountered Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu, who happened to walk by the lodge (though she suspected that Fuyuhiko actually did want to join the party). Because Chiaki was his alibi, knowing he did not enter the lodge, he was exonerated from murder suspicion. Chiaki also played an important role along with Gundham Tanaka, discovering a space under the lodge which the culprit had used as a spot to commit the murder.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
In the second chapter, Chiaki attended the girls-only beach party, for which she brought ice cream and some board games to play. Chiaki was excited when Monokuma gave them a new motive, namely Twilight Syndrome Murder Case. She explained to Hajime that she was a fan of the game series.

Chiaki as the Ultimate Gamer showed her ability to explain and help Hajime find the game's True Ending by pressing the "Down button five times", and with this, they discovered a disclaimer that the game was actually based on a real-life event.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
In the third chapter, to avoid catching Despair Disease, Chiaki along with Sonia, Gundham, Kazuichi Soda and Hiyoko Saionji moved to the motel on the third island.

Chiaki made a crucial discovery which heavily altered the scene of the crime. The black curtains in the meeting room at the hospital were used by the culprit to make it seem like it was at the live house.

Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Electric Clocks?
In the fourth chapter, Chiaki and the other investigate the fourth island, riding the roller coaster and finally getting trapped by Monokuma in the Funhouse.

Chiaki stopped Hajime from entering the Final Dead Room. With the help of Nagito, Chiaki and Hajime were able to deduce the culprit.

Chapter 5 - Smile at Hope in the Name of 
Chiaki was revealed to have been the culprit in the fifth chapter. In an attempt to stop a fire, Chiaki accidentally killed Nagito, due to his efforts to reveal the traitor. Chiaki told Hajime that she was the traitor and he was forced to prove this to everyone.

They voted for Chiaki relying on Nagito's luck, and it was revealed that she was the true murderer, even though Komaeda was trying to keep the traitor alive as they were not influenced by despair. Chiaki and Monomi were executed afterwards.

Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
Despite her apparent death, Chiaki was able to appear in Hajime's thoughts during the final chapter's Graduation Session. Chiaki convinced Hajime to keep his head high, defeat AI Junko Enoshima and not to fall into despair.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
As the Neo World Program shuts down, Chiaki's voice could be heard, saying that she'll never forget anyone, as they will be friends forever.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Chiaki made a cameo apperance in Super Danganronpa 2.5 in Nagito's flashback with the rest of the surviviors.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
AI Chiaki appeared to Hajime as a live depiction of his memory upon the boat leaving for Jabberwock Island. Clutching Usami in her arms, she recalled the time Hajime first entered the Neo World Program, when an A.I. was created to monitor them. She explained that it was everyone's desire to see her once more that brought her into the program, as a depiction of their memories. She acknowledged she is not the same Chiaki but still pointed out that the class were able to see her again.

Chiaki ended by expressing they all won a miracle together, Hajime, in response, stated that an ending like that wasn't so bad. Chiaki A.I. agreed, stating she fought and risked her life for this. Hajime and her both stared upon the rising sun, Chiaki stated they can all make their future together, she turned to Hajime and smiled once more. Nagito then called Hajime over so he wouldn't miss out on the food, Chiaki fades away as Hajime goes to join the others.


Main article: Please Insert Coin

Family:
Usami/
Both Chiaki and Usami are AIs and share a sibling relationship. The two are usually together, trying to protect the other students from Monokuma and from despair, as seen in Chapter 1 when the two were outside the old building during the Ultimate Imposter's party.

When Chiaki was found guilty and revealed as the mole for Future Foundation, the two were executed together.

Her 
Chiaki and Usami were created and sent into the Neo World Program by Future Foundation as a mole. Chihiro Fujisaki, who she referred to as her "father" was the one who created her while Alter Ego, who she referred to as her "big brother" was the one who modified her to be Chiaki.

In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's non-canon Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Chiaki meets Chihiro and they act friendly towards each other, though they do not appear to be very close as she is a human and not the AI created by him.

Love Interest:
Hajime 
Chiaki quickly proved herself to be a useful help to Hajime in the investigations right from Chapter 1, having experience from murder mystery games. Though he thought she was a little odd and spacey, he respected her unusually sharp eye for detail. At the beach party in Chapter 2, he also became flustered at the sight of her in a bikini, implying he felt an attraction for her.

The two's bond is especially evident during Chapter 4 onwards and in Free Time Events. In the strawberry house in chapter 4, Chiaki is the only one who stops Hajime from entering the Final Dead Room, saying that he'd lose his way. During the Class Trials, Hajime frequently turned to Chiaki when the case seemed not to be going anywhere. Hajime generally sided with Chiaki during trials, and vice-versa.

When Chiaki confessed being the traitor in chapter 5, she relied on Hajime to prove her guilt. Much to the survivors' dismay, the group gave in to Hajime's reasoning and trusted Chiaki, believing that she was the murderer. Chiaki was also seen in Hajime's thoughts in chapter 6, willing him on to not give into despair.

Throughout various Free Time Events, it's hinted that the two were interested in each other romantically. In Chiaki's 4th Free Time Events, she fell into Hajime's chest while they were looking through storage boxes. Hajime commented about how fast his heart was racing and how they should meet together another time. In the 5th Free Time Events, the two of them "frolicked" around the island, with Hajime chasing her. It's later revealed that she wanted to have a "date" and was turning to Hajime for information.

At the end of the Free Time Events Hajime recollects that his partnership with Chiaki wasn't fake, and that if they escaped from the island, he would take Chiaki lots of places.

In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's non-canon Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Chiaki is very close with Hajime as well and their relationship is based on the one they had in Danganronpa 3. Despite that fact, the event's "canonical" timeline showed a lot of inconsistency, to the point that whether she is the AI, the human Chiaki, or some blend of both, is difficult to discern.

Killing School Trip Participants:
Nagito 
At first, Chiaki and Nagito both do not pay much attention to each other. However, after the events of the first trial, when Nagito's true colors are revealed, Chiaki becomes the nicest person towards him, although she can be quite frustrated by him at times. Unlike other students, she is more understanding towards him and is not quick to accuse him of plotting something. Chiaki also appears concerned about Nagito's well-being when he's tied up, saying that she'll check on him later.

They provide each other with crucial information during class trials and Nagito even asks Chiaki to help him investigate at one point.

Although he is unaware of it, Nagito tries to save Chiaki (the traitor) by having her unintentionally murder him and get the other students killed. However, this fails when Chiaki revealed herself as the traitor among the students. When Chiaki was about to be executed, she had no ill will towards Nagito, believing that the difficult circumstances were the reason for his extreme behavior.

Mikan 
Chiaki and Mikan are shown to be on very friendly terms with each other.

In Chapter 2, Chiaki is shown to be spending time with Mikan in the Mirai Hotel lobby. Mikan remarks how kind Chiaki was for teaching her how to play games, and even playing a round against her. Right after Mikan explains that she was happy to be able to play with a friend, which is one of the few instances where Mikan does not apologize for assuming that someone is her friend. After being thanked, Chiaki interjects by saying that Mikan doesn't need to thank her as she had fun too. Hajime's internal dialogue highlights this as he notes how this was the first time he had ever seen Mikan that happy, and that he should thank Chiaki for it.

In Chapter 3, Chiaki is shown to be clearly disappointed in Mikan after the latter gets infected by the Despair Disease and recalls her memories as Ultimate Despair. Because of their previous interaction and Chiaki's nature as an AI, this can be due to not being able to rehabilitate Mikan as she was supposed to, and feeling disappointed in herself. Though it can also be taken as Chiaki simply being upset about losing a friend she had made herself.

In the same chapter, during the trial, the localization has Chiaki remark the retelling of Mikan sleeping on Hajime as "too much info". In the original Japanese, she says "gochisōsama" in response, which can be taken as sarcasm, as it's a phrase used most often after eating/being treated to a meal, which roughly means "thank you for the meal".

Sonia 
Sonia is a close friend of Chiaki's. They are often seen talking together and get along very well. In the fifth class trial after Chiaki revealed herself as the traitor from the Future Foundation, Sonia kept denying it, saying that she couldn't have been the traitor. Sonia considered Chiaki as one of her beloved comrades that experienced so many things in the Killing School Trip. Sonia went too far in proving that Chiaki is not the traitor by engaging in a rebuttal showdown with Hajime.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Chiaki Nanami
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Chiaki in order to learn more about her. If he gives Chiaki a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Chiaki will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Chiaki's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Chiaki's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567X
Chiaki Nanami's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
The park	The supermarket	The airport
Assemble from intuition	Assemble from the middle	Assemble from the outer pieces
Happy Happy Joy Joy	Celebrate in the ocean	Hug Chiaki
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 041 Tips and Tips 2nd ion DR2 Present 062 Power Gauntlet DR2 Present 064 Nitro Racer DR2 Present 086 Century Potpourri DR2 Present 102 Rose In Vitro DR2 Present 103 Skullhead Mask

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Chiaki grants the following skills:

Cheat Code	The time limit doesn't decrease, even if you shoot a statement with the silencer.
Effective during the Nonstop Debate.
Cannot be combined with Infinity Unlimited Flame.	4 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Chiaki Nanami

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"I'm Chiaki Nanami, the Ultimate Gamer. Video games are my hobby, and I'm a fan of all genres. ... Nice to meet you."
Chapter 1:

"I'll be fine. If things get dangerous, I'll just run away as fast as I can."
"If this were a video game, it'd have a very high difficulty level... Let's do our best to clear the game."
"If it was just one coincidence, it'd be fine... But when it's one right after another... I wonder... Is something like that even possible?"
"Moving forward, we should put aside all unnecessary preconceptions and just choose the answer...I think."
"It's fine if you don't know. What matters is that you hold on to the feeling that you have to do your best. So...let's do our best. Let's make sure a killing like this never happens again."
Chapter 2:

"Motive or otherwise, it doesn't matter... I won't let another killing happen.I will never...ever...let another killing happen."
"Apparently Mikan has never played video games before. She's totally missing out on 90% of her life."
"Yeah, the only thing we can do is investigate. Cuz...we should never forgive that. Killing...is something we should never forgive. The killer has their reasons...I understand that. It was the same for Teruteru, too. It's really all Monokuma's fault...I understand that, too. But...even so... We should never forgive...killing."
"Ngh...I'm not some girl gamer who talks about video games she's never beaten..."
"Let's go, we can't forgive the killer..."
"...Mapping is second nature to retro game fans."
Chapter 3:

"Despite their clumsiness, I'm sure whoever made this probably did their very best... If you look at it carefully...don't you feel like you can sense their feelings? Mahiru's not alone... She'll be with us now and forever... This...was probably made with those feelings... So I definitely think... Yep. It's a nice decoration."
"It's very...like you guys to settle things like this. Little by little, we're trying to understand and find the good in each other... That's the reason why we can move forward...without feeling despair toward our situation. ...Yeah, you guys are all splendid."
"I'm also worried about Fuyuhiko, but...is it really okay if we just stay here and do nothing? ...Isn't it better if we do what we can?"
"Yawwwwn...now that I have some peace of mind, I'm getting sleepy. I should go home for today."
"It's true we need to hurry, but there's no way you can make good decisions if you're so worked up. It's for the sake of saving Akane, too. We don't know what's beyond this point... That's why...we need to stay calm...I think."
"Being depressed won't help. Let's believe in Nekomaru. C'mon feel better." (to Hajime)
"...It's to prevent a killing. As long as that disease is Monokuma's motive, if we just ignore it... A killing *will* happen again. To prevent that, we also have to prevent the disease from spreading... That's why we need to quarantine them."
"It's not like...we've stopped being friends. I just don't want a killing to happen ever again... We can't prevent that if everyone gets sick, you know?"
"Thank you, both of you... I won't let your feelings go to waste. We'll make sure to find out the mystery of the Despair Disease while you're all here... ...I think. Probably."
"Yeah, it's better if we hurry, right?"
"For now...we should lower that person wearing the hemp bag to the ground. Leaving it like that...is just too sad."
"Then let's get started. So we..can end this nightmare for good."
"Regardless, something like this shouldn't be forgiven...so... I will definitely find the truth behind this case... ...That's what I think."
"Let's go...there's no time to waste. I know it's sad but we need to move forward... And then...we need to end this once and for all..."
"As long as I leave this to you...I won't tell you to do your best, but oh well, you should get started already."
"Um...I don't think belief and doubt are necessarily opposites. I do doubt her...but I still want to believe her. Belief lies at the heart of that conflict. Cuz...if there's no room for doubt, then there's no reason to believe, is there?"
"If you want to believe in someone...you need to overcome doubt first. Belief without doubt...is simply a lie."
"I'm...the same as Hajime. I don't want to doubt any of my friends... But still...the truth is one of us murdered two of our friends... That's why...we gotta stick with this until the very end. So we can finally break these chains of despair."
"This is your just reward. The more desperately you argue, the deeper you dig yourself into a hole... ...You lied, didn't you?"
Chapter 4:

"But there's also a possibility that Monokuma set a trap. We should be careful where we step."
"I make sure to choose competitive puzzle games or shooting games that we can all play together. Well, if I had any friends, that is."
"I'm not really on board with this idea but... If everyone says they're gonna go, I guess I have no choice. I guess I have to go with everyone."
"Terrible... It'd be much better if it was *just* terrible."
"Making a scene is just going to make us hungrier. So...let's just calm down for now."
"...Why? Why...does this always happen? No matter how much I try to stop it, this is always the result... ...Is this something I can't stop?"
"You're right... If we're gonna avenge Mechamaru, we gotta regain as much energy as we can..."
"It may be important to talk about who the traitor is, but we need to focus on Mechamaru's murder first. Because...if we can't survive the Class Trial, everyone is going to die together anyway..."
"Fine, I understand. Now's not the time for us to be fighting anyway. If you won't tell us, we gotta do it ourselves... Now, shall we go back to investigating Mechamaru's case? We better hurry...the Class Trial is gonna start soon."
"I guess Nagito is like a tardy detective. It's a trope in mystery games. They always come to the crime scene late, just to make an important discovery... But they can never reach the truth of the case. They just end up feeding the main character's assumptions. Well, in Nagito's case, he's not the type to feed anyone. He'll just make things even more complicated. I don't think a new discovery is bad, though. He might be able to find something we completely overlooked."
"...I'm sure it's painful for Kazuichi to do something like this too... We can't let this go to waste. We need to find something no matter what."
"Was it really okay...to come here? Still, I'm starting to see the truth behind this case... ...I think."
"Now now, enough with the lover's quarrel. We need to think about this seriously. We don't have the luxury of discussing irrelevant things. The incident this time has many questions."
"When you see people and things...make sure you focus on the good parts instead of the bad. So...let's put aside what's changed, and focus our attention on what hasn't."
"Hey, with your friends and their execptionally smart brains, it must've been possible... ...to secretly get one of them behind Mechamaru, and press the button on the back of his neck."
"It's such a downer...clearly... But still... Even though we feel this way... We still gotta do our very best."
"Then...let's go back for now and eat. And then...after we're full, let's sleep as much as we want. And then...let's do our best again."
Chapter 5:

"Cheer up, Hajime. It doesn't matter if you're from the Reserve Department..."
"You guys...seem reliable..."
"...You're right. Then I gotta do my best, too."
"There are never hints in obviously suspicious places. Anyone who looks obviously suspicious isn't the killer. That's usually the norm."
"In games...commanders are usually flags. If you defeat the commander, no matter how many of their units are left, you still secure a victory. Even damaging the commander is enough to decrease the opponent's morale... As far as plans go, it's a pretty standard tactic."
"Anyway...we should try going there at least. We don't have time to stand around doing nothing."
"Let's stop... Fighting among ourselves won't help anything. More importantly... Let's work harder to find the password to that ancient ruin...or clues that might relate to it... As long as we cooperate and explore all over the island, we might be able to find it, you know?"
"Calm down...okay? You wouldn't do something like that, right? You're not the kind of person who would hurt someone... Right? ... See, it's all right. Yep...no problem."
"No, I didn't do anything. Akane isn't the sort of person who could seriously do something like that in the first place."
"Besides...we don't have time to fight among ourselves..."
"...Anyway, let's begin. I mean...in the end, we still have to do it, right? As long as a killing happens, we can't do anything about it, right? We have no choice but to do it, right? Besides...it's our fault that we couldn't even prevent it..."
"Hmmm...it's definitely weird... Well, I guess I'll find out if I look around. That's what the investigation is for."
"We can discuss it later. Right now is our only chance to investigate... So we should investigate first. If we don't...there won't be anything for us to discuss."
"At a time like this, it might be good if you broaden your investigation range."
"They say, "A shelf is a mirror that reflects a person's heart"..."
"It's better if a boy goes through another boy's things. You know, there might be private stuff here..."
"Well...having talent means you're also bound to that talent. The moment you obtain talent, your way of life has already been chosen for you... You can't do anything else except rely on that talent... ...Regardless of whether you want that life or not."
"But still, it's also not a good idea to think about it too much...I think. I think...we should focus on the Class Trial that's waiting for us first."
"Well, you don't have to worry so much. I mean...we're not fighting this alone, you know?"
"You're right... We need to fight as much as we can. No matter what hopeless truth...awaits us in the end."
"Let's worry about things...after we've finished."
"As Kazuichi said...it's true we've been constantly betrayed. ...But even if I'm betrayed again, I still want to believe in everyone. No matter how many times I may be betrayed...I still want to believe in everyone."
"I did say "difficult," but I never said "impossible"."
"It's impossible to figure out by myself...so let's think about it together. That's how...we made it this far up till now."
"How did Nagito stab himself with a spear...? Let's work together and think about this through!"
"We might need to think and use our imaginations for a bit."
"At a time like this... How about we stick to The Plan to Think One Step at a Time Instead of Expecting the Answers All at Once?"
"I'm a little worried, you know. I'm worried about starting the voting time while there's still a mystery."
"I think we should keep going until everyone is satisfied. Even if it's just to be safe..."
"We've come this far, let's work hard till the very end. If we work together...everything should be all right. ...That's what I believe."
"If there's no way he could've drank the poison, it might be impossible... ...Just kidding it's not like we're out of possibilities yet."
"No, it's too early to give up."
"That feeling of belief is at the heart of his trick. He believed we'd notice the fire grenades... He believed we'd try to extinguish the flames... And he believed we'd fall into his trap... By believing in us, Nagito was able to put his life-threatening plan into effect."
"He factored in his belief in us, but for some reason he didn't factor in his own luck... No, there's no way. I mean...this is Nagito we're talking about."
"He probably risked his life just so his Ultimate Luck could decide this."
"If, by chance, the traitor revealed themselves...during that bomb scare...what would've happened? Would it have...stopped Nagito from acting so reckless? But...they couldn't help it... Even if they wanted to reveal themselves...they couldn't do it... Because...they weren't created to do that. ... That's why...I want you guys to guess. A traitor who's not allowed to think that they're different from everyone else... A traitor who can only interact with everyone as a traitor... Because that's the nature of their existence... They can only exist as a traitor... Who do you think...is the traitor? ... ... Hajime...please."
"...Aww, you totally guessed right! Just as expected... Yep, you're correct. ...I'm the traitor. The agent sent by the Future Foundation to hide among you all...is me."
"It's definitely strange, right? Or rather...why was I able to do that? Maybe...I wanted to protect everyone, no matter the cost."
"I want to explain everything to you guys but...as I expected, that's rather difficult. That's why...the only thing I can do is plead with you... I want you to do it. I believe you can prove it."
"Hey, can you listen to me a little? There's nothing to be sad about, you know. Cuz...this is different from what happened before. Unlike before, you guys don't have to stay alive by doubting someone... ...You guys can stay alive by believing in me."
"Monomi...I'm sorry, too. You're probably gonna get scolded by a lot of different people for this... But still, I want to protect everyone by any means. And...I'm happy that I'm able to do that."
"You don't have to worry. Believe in me...and cast your vote."
"Even if you want to fly, you can't, right? Even if you want to swim where you please, you can't right? It's the same for me... Due to the nature of my existence, I will never be able to betray the Future Foundation..."
"...But strangely enough, I don't have any regrets. In fact...I'm somewhat happy. I was able to think I wanted to protect everyone. That's why...I feel proud of my actions."
"...It's okay, Monomi. It's not about giving up, you know... Let's believe in them... Let's believe in everyone...and leave the rest to them... ...Right?"
"You guys, I'm sorry about so many things... I'm sorry...for lying to you. I'm sorry...I couldn't protect you to the very end..."
"Bye everyone... It's okay... A shining future will always be waiting for you. It's true...it's absolutely true... Cuz...I know."
"upup0'&'&downdown*+==^^leftrightleftrightabstart:(sorry&'fguys*&)don't&lose<" (Chiaki's cottage post-fifth trial, a reference to the Konami Code)
"There's no need for you to worry... The only thing beyond this point is a shining future. Now then...let's open the door to the future."
Chapter 6:

"An eternal game utopia sounds like fun."
"That's not it... You guys aren't part of the game, right?"
"I'm just a part of the game...but you guys aren't right?"
"Even if I cease to "exist"... Even if you guys remember me again.. That doesn't mean I will completely disappear. As long as everyone continues to move forward toward the future we created together... I will never disappear. What I lived for, fought for, and risked my life for will still exist."
"You're...probably just scared, right? Not just of disappearing... You're scared of moving toward the future with such a heavy burden, right?"
"How much longer are you going to be this indecisive!? Didn't you want to become someone with confidence? Isn't that why you admired Hope's Peak Academy?"
"Hajime...you've had it wrong this whole time. Having talent isn't the goal. There's something much more important than whether or not you have talent, right? ...What's important is that you believe in yourself. If you can't do that... No matter how much talent you possess, you will never be confident in yourself. Just like...how you were in the past. But past Hajime is in the past. He's not the same Hajime who spent time with me and the others in this world. So it's going to be all right... I think it's time you finally had confidence in yourself."
"You guys are the only ones...who have the right to decide your future. And the responsibility too. But if you can't choose either future... Why don't you just create one?"
"Even if this world is just a game, you guys aren't part of the game. You guys don't have to just choose a future... You should be able to create one as well. Since you're not part of the game, you don't have to worry about talent, skill, or level. You guys...have a tremendous ultimate move that can overcome anything. I guess what I'm trying to say is...if you just do it, things will turn out okay!"
"Of course, games aren't very fun when they're easy to clear."
"Hey, Hajime... This isn't for the sake of anyone else. You... You have to do this for yourself. Now then! It's about time you show me your cool side, Hajime. C'mon, I'll help out too..."
"You should even be able to create the future."
"No matter what kind of future it is... As long as you guys move toward it, I will never disappear. Everything that happened here...it won't be meaningless... If you guys carried the burden of both hope and despair, you should even be able to create the future. Even if it's a convenient miracle... If you just do it, things will turn out okay! That's why you can't hesitate now. Resolve to throw everything away, and give it everything you got! I'll...be cheering for you, too..."
"Me to... Thank you. I'll...never forget about you guys... I'll never...ever forget... I'll be cheering for you guys from now on...from somewhere. Cuz...we're all friends, after all."

Nanami (七海) means "Seven Seas" while Chiaki (千秋) means "One Thousand Autumns".
Chiaki shares her birthday, March 14, with that of her creator's, Chihiro.
Another similarity between Chiaki and Chihiro is that both of them have kanji numerals in both their given names and last names, with the numerals in their first names both being 千 chi, which means "thousand".
Chiaki's relation to Chihiro is also subtly hinted at through their similar promotional illustration art. The only differences between the two is that Chihiro, being a programmer, is surrounded by computers while Chiaki is surrounded by game consoles, and that Chihiro is seated in a chair while Chiaki seems to be sitting on a floor.
In Chiaki's character illustration features a Game Boy Advance SP, a PlayStation 2 slim, a GameCube, a Nintendo DS, a Game Boy, a Game Gear, a PS3, a Sega Saturn, an Xbox, an Xbox 360, and a Famicom.
Chiaki enjoys any kind of video game, even games falling under the "kusoge" genre (games intentionally designed to be unlikable), with the exception of dating sims, the only genre she is bad at.
In her Free Time Events, Chiaki will talk about or reference other video games, like "Trio The Punch", and "Dead Rising".
In Chiaki's cottage, the same "Time Travelers" (a game by game company Level-5 written by Chunsoft's writer Jirou Ishii) poster as the one seen in the cinema can be spotted. In the Vita and PC versions, this is changed to a poster for "Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls" in both the cinema and her cottage.
Chiaki doesn't like the idea of swimming, because she fears she might fall asleep and drown.
Chiaki doesn't know about Girls' Day (Hinamatsuri), a holiday in Japan where families pray for the health of their daughters, until Hajime told her. This is a hint to the fact that Chiaki is an AI.
Chiaki was featured in the last formal executions, while the real-world Chiaki she was based upon was featured in the first formal execution.
AI Chiaki's execution mirrors Junko's, with both of them going through several sequences before ultimately getting crushed to death.
Interestingly, real-world Chiaki's death in Despair Arc is very similar to Mukuro's death in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc: being suddenly impaled by dozens of spears. The deaths also double as acts of betrayal from those who were closest to them (Junko, in Mukuro's case, and Chisa, in Chiaki's case).
Considering these facts, it's also worth noting that Mukuro was the first person to be executed during the Killing School Life, while Junko was the last.
In the stage play, AI Chiaki is executed by spear impalement, just like her real-world counterpart.
Chiaki is the only one of the eight characters shown on the cover of Danganronpa 1 ・2 Beautiful Days who is not shown in her promotional art.
According to the series creator, Kazutaka Kodaka, the Chiaki who appeared to help Hajime during Chapter 6 of Danganronpa 2 didn't feel like the same Chiaki who appeared during most of the game, giving him the idea of another, different Chiaki—her real life counterpart.

Fuyuhiko is a young man in his early twenties, around 22 at youngest. His virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as his 17 year old self.

He is a slim man known for having a refined face, sometimes coming off as a "baby face". Because of his fairly short build, Fuyuhiko generally presents an overly aggressive demeanor to assert that he is, in fact, a tough gangster. He has a dusty blond crew cut hair, with a distinct pair of curved lines shaved on each side of his head. He also has freckles along the bridge of his nose and a birthmark near his mouth on the right side. His eyes are gold, and he has permanent blush marks on both cheeks.

Befitting his title, Fuyuhiko dresses in traditional yakuza fashion: well-tailored suits. In the game, he wears a two-piece suit consisting of a dark pinstripe jacket and pants over a white dress shirt. His tie is brown-black with an animal skull emblem on it, and he wears black dress shoes with a platform heel. On his left lapel is a pin that is in the shape of the emblem of the Kuzuryu family, and he wears two silver rings on his right hand. He later wears a black eyepatch with a white, round dragon pattern.

As the Ultimate Despair, he wears a black fedora, suit and a jacket, as well as a long scarf hanging loose and untied on his shoulders. His right eye was implied to have been replaced by Junko's eye, and as such he wears an eyepatch with a golden dragon pattern. During Side: Hope, Fuyuhiko has ditched his eyepatch and a vertical scar is seen where his eye used to be.

In Despair Arc, Fuyuhiko wears Hope's Peak uniform.





Fuyuhiko is initially incredibly stand-offish and rude to the other students on the island. He claims he's not going to play at being friends with anyone, and when he is questioned about this in Chapter 1, he states clearly that he would not hesitate to kill anyone of the others. He makes frequent references to his yakuza background and seems adamant at presenting this sort of "lone wolf" attitude. Fuyuhiko doesn't simply want to make friends but considers it not worth his time and beneath him. Despite this, as early as chapter 1, he shows signs of this perhaps not being all true, with him "happening to walk by" the lodge where the other students were having a party, despite claiming that he had no interest in going.

When Fuyuhiko does interact with the others (by choice or otherwise), his attitude is combative and irritable. He's easily angered, often threatening and/or insulting other people when they disagree with or complain about his actions. He frequently uses the word boke (a particularly pejorative way of calling someone an idiot, often translated as dumbass/shithead/retard.), and will punctuate his statements in an argument with it. He avoids any proper relationships and he's used to being treated with caution by everyone.

After deciding to change in Chapter 3, because of Peko's sacrifice and him realizing his own mistakes, Fuyuhiko became more sociable and avoided bad-mouthing people to the best of his abilities. He even seems to become one of the group's most loyal and steadfast members, though still short-tempered and impulsive. He tries to help others and is shown to openly care about them, even Nagito Komaeda when he was about to die from Despair Disease. Peko's sacrifice is obviously a touchy subject for him.

In his free-time events, Fuyuhiko is revealed to have self-esteem issues concerning his status as the Ultimate Yakuza and the clan's heir. He does not believe he deserves the title, though he grows out of this with Hajime's company. He states that he wants to be strong on his own, and not to simply rely on his family's power to get ahead in life. His goal is to be strong enough to lead his family, rather than to be strong because he leads his family. Because of his insecurities, he is also particularly sensitive about his appearance, as people would expect a big, muscular man to lead a yakuza family, and Fuyuhiko's appearance is the opposite of that. It is suggested that it would not be out of the question for him to react violently if someone were to use the word "baby face" in reference to him. It's also revealed that Fuyuhiko enjoys eating sweets, such as fried dough cookies, which he considers unmanly and shameful and thus tries to keep it a secret. He is also ashamed because he doesn't have any tattoos like "real yakuza" do.

Fuyuhiko takes duty very seriously, and if there's someone who he can trust, he will open his heart and cooperate with them. Despite being a yakuza, deep down he has a somewhat pure heart and he's very strict to the rules. He is the type who takes honor and moral codes seriously. For instance, he is strictly against underage drinking, underage driving and underage sex. In Danganronpa 3, it as revealed that he is one of the few students that attended the class regularly, even though he didn't have to. He also desperately tried to stop Kazuichi Soda from molesting Sonia Nevermind when they were under the effect of aphrodisiacs.

Talent 
Ultimate Yakuza 
Fuyuhiko was born as the heir of Kuzuryu Clan and therefore, scouted by the Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Yakuza. However, he believes that his talent is nothing more than just bragging rights. He says that he only has yakuza blood but has no quality as a yakuza at all.

Fuyuhiko thinks that his last name is a heavy burden for him. As long as he holds his last name, he will always be dealing with violence and death until he gets used to seeing people's deaths every single day. People who look at him will stay cautious, not wanting to be involved with the Kuzuryu Family. He often sees his parents fight, almost like they were killing each other and nearly got killed in the aftermath of their fights.

Fuyuhiko states that he never deserved to become the Ultimate Yakuza, as he says that the one who deserve to be called with that talent is none other than his little sister, Natsumi Kuzuryu. However, what make Fuyuhiko earn his title as the Ultimate Yakuza are his pride and strong willpower. He shows his apologies to Hiyoko by slitting his own stomach so that he could prove to her that he is very guilty of Peko and Mahiru's death. After he lost one of his two most important woman, he tries to redeem himself and try to be more responsible and friendly towards others. When Hiyoko sees his sudden change and mocks him, Fuyuhiko doesn't accept that as an insult and in turn, listens to her words so that he could change for the better.

Unlike the other yakuza, Fuyuhiko has a liking towards eating sweets such as fried dough cookies, which he states that it was embarrassing for a yakuza like him. He also doesn't tattoo his body and hates people who disobey rules that applied on their environment. At the end of his Free Time Events, Fuyuhiko believed that he will change after he survived and escaped from the Mutual Killing Game.

In other 
Fuyuhiko's talent as it appeas in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Yakuza
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「極道」	Super High School Level Gangster
Français Ultime Vaurien	Ultimate Ruffian

Prior to The 
Fuyuhiko is the heir to the Kuzuryu yakuza clan. However, the clan believed he had no qualities of the yakuza and did not deserve the title. His younger sister, Natsumi, was considered by many to be much more worthy of the role. The Clan even believed she was the reincarnation of her deceased uncle who was known as the strongest Kuzuryu in history. She was given the chance to take her brother's place, but she declined due to caring about her brother. She didn't wish to lead the Clan, believing she was so amazing because she was Fuyuhiko's sister.

Along with having a good relationship with his sister, Fuyuhiko was also very close with Peko, albeit due to different reasons. Peko, abandoned as a baby, was raised together with him since birth and served as his personal assassin.

Peko was always there by Fuyuhiko's side when he needed her. When Fuyuhiko's parents had their constant fights and few times nearly killed their son in the aftermath of their fights, Peko protected him. When Fuyuhiko and Peko went to the zoo at one point when they were kids, he challenged the king of the monkeys to a fight, and Peko had no choice but to join in the fray to protect him. She thought that Fuyuhiko had a handsome smile at that time. Fuyuhiko was also once kidnapped as a child along with Peko. They both succeeded in fleeing, but ended up getting lost in a mountain. Peko desperately tried to cheer up Fuyuhiko, but she ended making him cry because he could sense Peko's fear and anxiety, and because she was unfamiliar with smiling and showing similar warm emotions. However, they were finally saved because of Peko's ability as a swordswoman. Since Fuyuhiko was in 2nd grade he no longer cried over anything, including losing a fight.

Fuyuhiko grew to dislike his reliance on Peko, as he was already considered weak among the yakuza and he hated it when Peko was treated as a mere tool. Furthermore, both Fuyuhiko and Peko appeared to have romantic feelings for each other, but neither confessed as their relationship was obviously complicated.

As a teen, Fuyuhiko attended Suzuran High School before enrolling in Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Yakuza, in Class 77-B. Because he disliked crowding and being too familiar, he kept a bit of distance between himself and his classmates. Peko enrolled in the school with him, as the Ultimate Swordswoman, though they agreed they would act just like ordinary classmates.

During his time at Hope's Peak Academy, Fuyuhiko was potentially involved in a series of murders. His little sister was killed by a fellow student named Sato, who covered it up along with Mahiru Koizumi, blaming it on a serial pervert. As an act of revenge, Fuyuhiko killed Sato in the same way that she killed his sister Natsumi, hitting her in the head with a metal baseball bat, killing her instantaneously.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Fuyuhiko returns in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, where its story focuses on the story of the Remnants of Despair during The Biggest, Most Awful, Most Tragic Event in Human History.

Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak 
Despite the school stating that attending class was not mandatory, Fuyuhiko attended class along with Mahiru, Hiyoko Saionji, Sonia, and Mikan Tsumiki. He was angered by the fact that his supposed homeroom teacher, Koichi Kizakura, was once again boozed away and abandoned the class after a new assistant homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome entered the class.

When Chisa told everyone to go out with her to search for their other classmates, Fuyuhiko refused to and was then threatened by Chisa, stating that she was willing to go to great lengths of teaching, making him impressed by her resolve.

Throughout the day, Fuyuhiko and the others managed to retrieve almost all of the students of Class 77-B. He returned to the class and was asked by Chisa to clean the classroom with the others as she left to retrieve two remaining students.

After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that Fuyuhiko and the others had waited and that the classroom was clean. When the students once again bring up the fact they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
Fuyuhiko and his classmates took cover on the other side of the classroom during Akane Owari and Nekomaru Nidai's deadly training session. Fuyuhiko prevented Peko from getting involved in the fight.

Later after they repaired the classroom, Fuyuhiko and the others played games that Chiaki Nanami brought. He, Nagito Komaeda, Kazuichi, and Teruteru Hanamura played a monopoly-like game. He was impressed by Nagito's luck that managed to save him from defeat and won the game in an instant.

During the break time, Fuyuhiko and his classmates ate nikujaga that Hiyoko and Teruteru cooked. Unfortunately, Fuyuhiko and the others were greatly affected by the aphrodisiacs that Hiyoko secretly added during the cooking process. Despite that, Fuyuhiko desperately tried to prevent Kazuichi from molesting the defenseless Sonia.

The next day after he and the others recovered, Chisa gathered them in their class and announced that she elected Chiaki as their class representative. Fuyuhiko said that he had no problem with his teacher's decision.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At beginning of the episode, Fuyuhiko and his classmates walked past Hajime Hinata heading toward the Main Course building.

Fuyuhiko and Peko talked in an alley, near the school, to avoid being discovered by their classmates. He informed Peko that his younger sister, Natsumi, entered the Reserve Course department after she asked their dad for it so she could follow him to Hope's Peak Academy. He prevented Peko from checking on her, despite the fact that he had always known that his sister had a bad attitude towards everyone. When Ibuki Mioda spotted them, Fuyuhiko quickly left the scene, acting like nothing had happened between him and Peko.

Several days later, Fuyuhiko heard the news of his sister's murder and went to a morgue in a hospital to check his late sister's body. Fuyuhiko looks at her body, half sad and angry.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
Fuyuhiko couldn't concentrate in class because of his little sister's death, and he thus didn't listen to Chisa's announcement about the upcoming annual practical exam.

Fuyuhiko and the others had already heard the news about Chisa's transfer to the Reserve Course and the bombing incident in the gym involving one of his classmates, Nagito. Fuyuhiko was moved by Chisa's speech to keep moving forward together as a class.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Fuyuhiko attended Chisa's welcome back party with his classmates. At first, he didn't want to go until he saw how hard Chiaki worked to organize the party. When Kazuichi and Teruteru informed that to Chisa, he blushed fiercefully and refused to admit it.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
Fuyuhiko was packing his stuff with Peko's help. He said that Peko has been helping him with his stuff but hasn't taken care of her stuff yet. Fuyuhiko picked up Peko's stuff and Peko told him he mustn't, but Fuyuhiko simply brushed her objection off. Ibuki saw this exchange and questioned when they got so close. Mikan thought it was nice that Fuyuhiko and Peko have gotten close. Fuyuhiko stammered, saying that it's just a coincidence.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
Peko and her classmates watch Gundham Tanaka demonstrate his control over a bear in the class. Whe the class observes Mikan and Ryota are missing from class, Fuyuhiko comments that they have gotten closer lately. Later, when the Reserve Course riots outside of Hope's Peak, everyone watches in fear and apprehension while Fuyuhiko and Peko calmly wait at the back of the class.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by 
Fuyuhiko responded with disdain to Peko's comment about the Reserve Course riot being a parade, and said he didn't like it. When the class wondered why Mikan hasn't come to class, Fuyuhiko said he had a contact go to her house, and look for her, but she wasn't there. Nagito returned after his suspension and told the class he saw Mikan in the west district. Fuyuhiko and the others went out to search for Mikan. He paired up with Mahiru Koizumi and Hiyoko Saionji. Hiyoko called out one of usual insults to Mikan, and Fuyuhiko said she wouldn't respond to that even if she heard it.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Fuyuhiko and the rest of the class reconvene at the school classroom as they are unable to find Mikan, assuming what Nagito told them was false information. Chiaki reaches the classroom with an unconscious Nagito, explaining to them that Chisa is in danger, Fuyuhiko becomes worried by this but agrees to help.

Mikan later reappears, with an injured Peko in her arms, Fuyuhiko immediately runs to her aid and holds her in his own arms, Peko commanding her 'young master' to run although he refuses this. Despite Peko's protest, Fuyuhiko seeks to avenge the suffering Mukuro has caused her. Nagito convincingly makes clear that it will be dangerous and there is a possibility of them dying, although Fuyuhiko wishes to go despite the danger. Nagito explains that he was simply testing how strong hope was as a stepping stone, Fuyuhiko becomes angered at him being so indirect.

The Ultimate Imposter reveals his true identity, to Fuyuhiko's shock along with the rest of the class although they come to accept it quickly.

After leaving the Main Course building, the Reserve Course students seeks to take them on in battle to open placements on the Main Course, Fuyuhiko and the class go on ahead, leaving Nekomaru and Gundham to fend them off.

Fuyuhiko and the rest of the class, excluding Nekomaru and Gundham, begin their approach to Junko's lair by following the descending stairway.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of 
Fuyuhiko and the others continue their approach from the descent of the stairway to the long, lit corridor, in their attempt to find and rescue Chisa. Mikan is finally able to catch up with the class, Fuyuhiko immediately inquiring as to where Chiaki is, Mikan explains that she has twisted her ankle and is resting in one of the nearby rooms. In the middle of their search for Chisa, they find Nekomaru and Gundham, and the two rejoin the group, pleasing Fuyuhiko. Later on, they reach a large red door. Mikan presses a button to open the door, Fuyuhiko and the class follow her insides and find themselves in a room, mirroring that of a trial room.

The monitors on the walls of the room switch on, and reveal Junko on the screen. After a bit of exposition, Junko starts Chiaki Nanami's Punishment while the rest of the class is forced to watch it. Everyone tries desperately to take their eyes off the screen, but is unable to.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Fuyuhiko, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. The class, besides Nagito and Mikan, is devastated by this, and is brainwashed into despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy 
Fuyuhiko and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher and started reading a letter she prepared. Fuyuhiko and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa started to cry. The patterned swirls return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. Fuyuhiko expressed he and Peko will "lead their people down the right path". After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activated a bomb that fakes the death of the Class 77-B. Fuyuhiko and her class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak Academy's destruction.

Chisa's narration later reveals Fuyuhiko and Peko helping the world fall into despair by killing everyone in the Japanese Diet, as they are seen standing back to back surrounded by dead bodies.

During The 
Fuyuhiko became a part of the Ultimate Despair group that was founded by Junko. The members of Ultimate Despair did all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world. For example, he and Peko entered the Japanese Diet to slaughtered all those within.

After Junko was executed, Fuyuhiko took Junko's right eye and attached it to his own eye socket. However, he wears an eyepatch afterward.

The remnants of Despair are later found by Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by Alter Ego Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
At the beginning of the episode, it shows a flashback of the Ultimate Despair's activities and war with Future Foundation. In it, Fuyuhiko stood in front of his brainwashed subordinates to face with some Branch leaders of Future Foundation. He ordered his tool, Peko, to attack the leader of Future Foundation, Kazuo Tengan but quickly covered by Kyosuke Munakata. Fuyuhiko later reinforced by Nekomaru and Akane, but was eventually captured by the Future Foundation.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Fuyuhiko was one of the students who did not panic when they were transported to Jabberwock Island. He, along with everyone else, went exploring after Usami dismissed him.

Fuyuhiko is first seen at Hotel Mirai, when Hajime tried to talk to him. Immediately, Fuyuhiko acts defensively, stating that he doesn't want to get friendly with anybody. Before things can go astray, Nagito tells him that they are just there for introductions. Fuyuhiko is, at first, confused, before he goes back to his usual self. He begrudgingly introduces himself, saying that he doesn't plan on becoming friends with any of the others. (Hajime silently compares him to Hiyoko.) Fuyuhiko then tells Hajime to leave if he has nothing else to say.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
During Chapter 1, Fuyuhiko refuses to interact with others, although this is because of his attitude. It is inferred that Fuyuhiko did want to join the party with the others, but didn't because he was embarrassed.

Due to Fuyuhiko's absence at the party, he eventually became a minor suspect in the murder of the Ultimate Imposter. His name was cleared after Chiaki Nanami revealed that she and Monomi saw him wandering in front of the hotel. He also showed the first hints of his true relationship with Peko, immediately jumping to her defense when suspicion was directed towards her.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
During Chapter 2, Fuyuhiko is still rather aloof and does not wish to interact with anyone, seeing as how he was eating at the diner on the second island, instead of the Hotel Restaurant like everyone else.

Fuyuhiko becomes the first person to complete the "truth" route of the second chapter's motive, Twilight Syndrome Murder Case. As his reward, he received an envelope filled with photos that seemingly confirm the events of the game to be related to the murders of Sato and Natsumi. He later sends this envelope to Mahiru, hoping to meet her to confirm whether the accident of the Murder Case is real or not. However, Mahiru only begins avoiding him, which Fuyuhiko takes as proof that the events of the game are true - and thus, that Mahiru killed his little sister.

Driven by revenge, Fuyuhiko enlisted Peko to help him isolate and kill Mahiru. Learning that Mahiru planned to meet with Hiyoko at the second island's beach house to discuss the photos he sent her, Fuyuhiko forged messages to both girls, telling them arrive at the beach house at different times. After Peko intercepted and neutralized Hiyoko (by knocking her out with chloroform and hiding her in the closet), Fuyuhiko waited for Mahiru to arrive, planning to kill her with a metal baseball bat (as an ironic nod to how she killed his sister). However, at the same time, he was wrestling with growing misgivings about his scheme, whether from fear of failure or a simple crisis of conscience.

When Mahiru arrived, Fuyuhiko confronted her about her knowledge of the photos he sent her, explaining their connection to the events of Twilight Syndrome Murder Case. However, the conversation was derailed when Mahiru realized that Fuyuhiko killed Sato, prompting her to lecture him on the immorality of taking a life in revenge. Her words drove Fuyuhiko into a rage, and he went for the bat, only for Peko to grab it and kill Mahiru first. Fuyuhiko was stunned and horrified, knowing what was in store for Peko now, but grudgingly followed her urging to escape through the tunnel when she claimed that she had a plan. On his way out of the area, Fuyuhiko was spotted by Hajime when he and Kazuichi were attempting to infiltrate Sonia's beach party.

During the Class Trial, Fuyuhiko was again very defensive over Peko, doing whatever he could to pull suspicion away from her. His fervent defense of the Ultimate Swordswoman drew increasing suspicion from the others, especially given his previous aloof demeanor. Ultimately, the group shelved the matter and voted Peko as the culprit, much to Fuyuhiko's distress.

After the vote, Peko unveiled her true plan; sacrificing herself to allow Fuyuhiko to escape. She revealed their shared past and her role as Fuyuhiko's bodyguard/enforcer, declaring that she was nothing but a tool of his will. As such, Peko claimed that Fuyuhiko was the true architect of Mahiru's murder - and since the students voted for her instead, he had gotten away scot-free, winning his freedom at the expense of everyone else's lives. However, Nagito points out that Peko's entire argument relied on her opinion that Fuyuhiko saw her as a tool, prompting the other students to press him for the truth. Despite Peko's pleas and his own desire to leave the island, Fuyuhiko is unable to call her a tool, grimly stating that he wouldn't want to survive that way. As Peko resigned herself to her fate, Fuyuhiko begins to break down, telling his loyal bodyguard that he never considered her to be a tool. As Monokuma initiates the punishment, Fuyuhiko tearfully begs Peko not to leave him, declaring that he only ever wanted her as a person, not as a tool.

Fuyuhiko somehow ends up being brought along with Peko to the latter's execution. He attempts to save her, only to be accidentally slashed when she attacks one of Monokuma's marionette that leaps up between them. With his right eye badly injured, he passes out in Peko's arms. With the marionettes closing in for the kill, Peko protects her master one last time by shielding his body with her own as the enemies stab them repeatedly.

Everyone believes Fuyuhiko dead, but Monomi reports that he is just barely alive. Mikan reports that his injuries are extremely severe, but Monomi reveals that Monokuma has a responsibility to save his life, since he wasn't the blackened this time (according to Monokuma's rules, only the culprit of a murder can be punished with death if they are correctly identified by the others). Unable to defy his own rules, Monokuma summons an ambulance and spirits Fuyuhiko away for treatment.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
In Chapter 3, Fuyuhiko is revealed to be in the hospital found on the third island. Although heavily bandaged and still weak from his injuries, he appears to be recovering well - however, he refuses to speak to any visitors.

Fuyuhiko eventually makes a full recovery, save for his right eye, which was damaged beyond repair. As a result, he begins wearing an eye patch adorned with a white dragon design. During his recovery, he resolves to change himself for the better.

The morning after being discharged from the hospital, Fuyuhiko goes to the restaurant at breakfast. He greets the others in an exaggerated fashion, stating that he'll be able to greet the others every single day and every single morning. The others are confused, but glad about this, with the exception of Hiyoko, who is still grieving over the death of her friend Mahiru. The Ultimate Traditional Dancer begins to berate Fuyuhiko, blaming him for Mahiru and Peko's deaths and wishing he'd die in turn.

Fuyuhiko gravely agrees with Hiyoko in thinking that he was the cause of Mahiru's death. He attempts to apologize against Hiyoko's words, and while she doesn't believe him at first, he genuinely feels apologetic and bows down. After slicing his own stomach, his wound is reopened and blood spills out, stunning the others. Everyone was shocked after they saw Fuyuhiko's reckless action. Mikan, Kazuichi, and Nekomaru immediately brought him back to the hospital.

Hiyoko is stunned particularly, and the two reconcile at the party celebrating Fuyuhiko's return at the Titty Typhoon music venue after Ibuki invited them.

However, the party is interrupted when Akane is reported to challenging Monokuma to a fight on the sandy beach of the first island. Before it's too late, Nekomaru takes the hit from Monokuma's bazooka in order to protect Akane, forcing himself to leave the group to recover until the end of the chapter.

When the Despair Disease was released as the third motive by Monokuma, Fuyuhiko is unaffected by it, but states that he does not value his own life. As a result, Fuyuhiko volunteered to stay at the hospital along with Mikan and Hajime to look after the ones with the disease. During this time, he walked in on Mikan and Hajime apparently sharing a cot (actually an unfortunate series of events that ended up having Mikan cuddling a very stunned Hajime), prompting him to furiously berate them for their apparent lasciviousness.

When the murder occurred, Fuyuhiko, Hajime, Mikan, and Chiaki break through the music venue door when it was glued by an adhesive. During the investigation, Fuyuhiko is tricked by the culprit after discovering a drumstick broken in half, which made him believe that the door was jammed with that drumstick.

Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Clockwork?
In the fourth chapter, Fuyuhiko, along with everyone else, is shocked to discover Nekomaru reborn as a robot. Fuyuhiko is disgusted at Monokuma for messing around with Nekomaru's body like that. When they discover access to the fourth island, Fuyuhiko rides the roller coaster with everyone else for a prize given by Monokuma; a file about the Future Foundation.

While at the Strawberry House, Fuyuhiko notices Akane acting unnerving around Nekomaru. Fuyuhiko attempts to comfort Akane, by telling her he knows how it feels to have someone sacrifice themselves for you, yet feel the guilt. Fuyuhiko points out that although he wanted to thank Peko for her sacrifice, he never had the chance to after her death. He asked Akane to thank Nekomaru a lot, saying that she has the chance to thank him for his sacrifice.

Fuyuhiko, who still reminiscing Peko somehow stayed at the lounge. Not long after that, he saw Nekomaru went to the first floor to attend the Monokuma Tai Chi, not aware that Nekomaru's murder occurred after that.

Fuyuhiko somehow thwarted the plan of the culprit of Nekomaru's murder, Gundham Tanaka, by staying at the lounge when Gundham wanted to return to his room. He is also requested by Nagito to check every clock on both Strawberry and Grape Houses, proving that all of the clocks except Nekomaru's alarm clock tampered by Gundham.

Chapter 5 - Smile at Hope in the Name of 
As Nagito plans to bomb the islands in the fifth chapter, Fuyuhiko stands by Akane as she restrains Nagito, after it was deemed too dangerous to let him wander around without supervision.

Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
In the final class trial, Fuyuhiko decides, along with the others, not to graduate after an awakened Hajime convinces him not to. He claims that he hears Peko's voice and that he won't let her treat him like a kid anymore. When they graduate, Fuyuhiko and the others decide to stay behind at the island with his friends, hopeful that everyone will wake up again.

Epilogue - The Day before the 
After the defeat of Alter Ego Junko, Fuyuhiko and former Ultimate Despair members opted to stay on the Jabberwock Island, possibly in hopes that they could do something to help their comatose friends.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Main article: Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu (Illusion)
Real-
After Nagito awoke from Neo World Program, Fuyuhiko, Kazuichi, and the rest of his classmates were already waiting for him in the harbor. The Ultimate Yakuza commented that he sleeps so long and wondered what kind of dream that he dreamt off. Nagito then hugged Fuyuhiko and Kazuichi, telling them that at least it was not a bad dream.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of 
Thanks to Hajime who now merged with Izuru's incredible abilities, Fuyuhiko and the other survivors of the Killing School Trip's waiting time ended after Hajime cured the coma students.

Fuyuhiko and his classmates were taken off of Jabberwock Island and brought to the Future Foundation headquarters where they partake in the battle against the brainwashed Future Foundation soldiers. After Peko battled with the former Ultimate Discus Thrower, Fuyuhiko commented that bamboo sword is the most suitable weapon for Peko.

Fuyuhiko and the others later showed up with the rest of their friends to convince Ryota not to use the Hope brainwashing video. They also invited Ryota to live with them in peace, and took the blame for the Final Killing Game, so the Future Foundation could continue to operate.

Afterwards, Fuyuhiko and the others all departed on a Future Foundation ship to live a new life.


Love Interests:
Peko 
In Chapter 2, it is revealed that Peko is actually Fuyuhiko's hitwoman that grew up with him when they were children. Peko acted as a tool for Fuyuhiko, doing as she was ordered to do. The both of them cared for each other, and even Peko replaced his role as a murderer as hers so Fuyuhiko could escape from the island. Even though Fuyuhiko refused to escape from the island, he still interfered with her execution because he cared for her more than anything.

Although Peko sees herself as a tool towards Fuyuhiko, Fuyuhiko claims that he never wanted Peko to be his tool; rather his companion (with romantic implications as clarified in Peko's Island Mode ending). He wanted her to just be human and herself. He began to cry, not wanting her to leave him, and interfered her execution in an attempt to save her. However, he failed and Peko got distracted, accidentally blinding his right eye and getting stabbed by one of the Monokuma soldiers.

After Chapter 2 it is revealed in many situations that he always keeps her in mind and during Chapter 6 Alter Ego Junko tries to influence him to choose to stay in the game by hinting that Peko would still be alive if he chose to do so. But thanks to Hajime's influence, Fuyuhiko heard Peko's voice scolding him for acting like that and wanting to vote "Graduation" just to see her. This causes him to develop confidence on himself and decide to stop Alter Ego Junko so Peko would stop treating him as a child.

In Danganronpa 3, Peko stays close to Fuyuhiko all the time. She sits behind him in both classes, and only leaves his side to follow Mukuro. Despite how much Fuyuhiko cares about Peko, he is noticeably more colder to Peko in Danganronpa 3, especially when she offers to go find out why Natsumi is in the Reserve Course. Fuyuhiko coldly tells her that there is nothing between them now, and that she is no longer his hitwoman. This noticeably upsets Peko, but he goes on to say he only told her this so she wouldn't do anything crazy. Peko still helps Fuyuhiko by moving his stuff and Fuyuhiko also helps Peko, and tells her to "shut up" when she protests. Ibuki, however, interprets this as them acting like a mature couple. Fuyuhiko is upset when Mikan carries an unconscious Peko back to class, and he holds her in his arms, until she is strong enough to stand on her own. He also tells Peko he can't let "them" (referring to Mukuro and Junko) go for beating her up badly.

As Ultimate Despairs, Fuyuhiko and Peko still remain close. He says he and Peko will lead the gang down the right path, implying he sees them as equals, and they later stand back to back after killing everyone in the Japanese Diet Building. At some point though, they slipped back into their old roles as Fuyuhiko silently orders Peko to fight Kyosuke Munakata.

Family:
Natsumi 
It's revealed in Chapter 2 that Fuyuhiko had a sister in the past before he got dragged to Jabberwock Island. Fuyuhiko was very protective towards his sister, specifically when he avenged his sister's death by murdering Sato.

In Chapter 2, Fuyuhiko accidentally, specifically through a misinterpretation, ordered the murder of Mahiru at the hands of Peko, reason being because, through playing the game that served as Chapter 2's motive, he found out Mahiru had a hand in trying to cover it up, using the same weapon Sato used originally, which was a silver bat similar in appearance to the "Despair Bat" MonoMono Machine prize from the first game.

Class 77-B:
Mahiru 
From the beginning of the game, Fuyuhiko and Mahiru never liked each other. Mahiru always scolded him about his bad attitude to the others while Fuyuhiko always ignored it and states that he doesn't care about it. Later on during Chapter 2, Fuyuhiko was invited by Mahiru to go to the Beach House on the Second Island to discuss the current motive. However, they got into another argument, this time the argument was stopped by Peko who killed Mahiru in the same fashion as Sato, his little sister's killer.

After the events of Chapter 2, Fuyuhiko felt guilty and responsible for Mahiru's death. He promised that after he and the others survived and escaped from the island, he will make a funeral for her and Peko.

Hiyoko 
Hiyoko shows clear hostility towards Fuyuhiko, especially after Chapter 2, when she blames Fuyuhiko for the death of both Mahiru and Peko. Fuyuhiko apologizes to Hiyoko through bowing down on the ground and reopening his wound, and Hiyoko agrees to cooperate with Fuyuhiko— at least until they find a way they get out of the island. This implies that Hiyoko has at least forgiven Fuyuhiko.

Kazuichi 
At first, Kazuichi and the Ultimate Yakuza seem to be at each other's throats quite often. Kazuichi makes comments towards Fuyuhiko such as "If you didn't have that big Yakuza family, you'd be nothing but a midget!" Which, of course, is returned by Fuyuhiko's own sharp tongue. As time passes, though, their disagreement with each other seems to dissipate, and they become tolerant of one another, and eventually open up to one another as they survived the Killing School Trip.

Nagito 
During the Killing School Trip, Fuyuhiko disliked Nagito due to his potentially dangerous behavior and strange way of speaking, and would often cooperate in plans to see Nagito restrained, such as when Nagito had threatened to blow up Jabberwock Island.

However, Fuyuhiko was also shown to be very worried of Nagito when he almost died from the Despair Disease. At one point, when he was still being a loner, Fuyuhiko even defended Nagito after he was tied up and wasn't present, accusing the other students of being messed up sheeps who turn against their "buddies" immediately if they don't like them (seemingly because this behavior reminded Fuyuhiko of the way people treat him).

In Super Danganronpa 2.5, Nagito imagines Fuyuhiko as one of his closest friends while being inside his imaginary world, who understands that him being an occasional "creep" is just the way he is. The two seem to be on better terms with each other even after Nagito awakens from his coma into the real world, as Fuyuhiko and Kazuichi wait for him to greet him and overall appear friendlier with him. Though, Nagito then hugs the two, making them uncomfortable.

Chisa 
Chisa earned Fuyuhiko's respect when she threatened him into helping her look for the rest of his classmates. Fuyuhiko often refers to Chisa as "teach", but did call her "ma'am" shortly after she threatened him, as a way of showing her that she earned his respect. When Chisa announced that she had to leave for a bit, Fuyuhiko seemed upset. He also attended Chisa's welcome back party.

Chiaki 
Fuyuhiko dismissively agreed to Chiaki being their class representative. It is implied he kept his distance, even while Chiaki was uniting the class, but then came around when he saw how hard Chiaki was working on Chisa's welcome back party, and took part in it with the rest of the class. Like the rest of his class, Fuyuhiko was horrified to see Chiaki being slowly tortured by Junko. Mesmerized by the video, and helpless to do anything, Fuyuhiko could only cry and rage at Junko to let Chiaki go.

Ibuki 
Ibuki treats Fuyuhiko as a friend and always want to hang out with him. During chapter 2, Ibuki force Fuyuhiko to go to the ancient ruins with the others. Mahiru , however, was surprised that Fuyuhiko decided to come but he refers Ibuki as a bitch who won't stop bugging him. It was shown that Ibuki doesn't want Fuyuhiko to feel left out. After Fuyuhiko came back feeling well in Chapter 3, Ibuki decided to make a welcome back party for Fuyuhiko.

Reserve Course:
Hajime 
The two seem to be on good terms with each other after the events of Chapter 2, when Fuyuhiko is intent on changing himself. They are also willing to stay and focused on their friends that catch despair disease in chapter 3. Though initially, Fuyuhiko did not attempt to form a friendship with Hajime, their relationship changes relatively in the end.

Fuyuhiko considered Hajime as the "Ultimate Counselor" due to his nature that give the students confidence to endure everything that they have. In the last Free Time Events, the two of them did a sakazuki, a Japanese ritual of exchanging cups to symbolize sworn brothers and pledge loyalty.


Not long after his sister's murder occurred, Fuyuhiko discovered the culprit, Sato, angering him. Fuyuhiko states that he would never ever forgive Sato for what she did to his deceased sister. He decided to get revenge for his sister, and murdered Sato in the same fashion as his deceased sister, by hitting her on the head with a metal bat.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Fuyuhiko in order to learn more about him. If he gives Fuyuhiko a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Fuyuhiko will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Fuyuhiko's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Fuyuhiko's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567
Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Calcium	Vitamin C	Something sweet
Brotherhood Cup?	Tasting?	Exchanging vows?
--	--	--
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 071 Antique Doll DR2 Present 081 Stardust DR2 Present 074 Another Battle

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Fuyuhiko grants the following skills:

Silver Spoon	Reduces damage to the Influence Gauge when you miss.
Effective during the Class Trial.	5 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"I-It's probably remote controlled or something... Don't act like such a pussy over a child's toy."
"Name's Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu... Just so we're clear, I don't plan to act friendly and shit with other you guys."
Chapter 1:

"I'm used to being mistrusted... Do what you will..."
"I'm not your friend, dumbass! When did I ever become friends with you bastards?"
"Hmph, let me be perfectly clear... ...I can do it, y'know."
"Don't talk to me like we're friends or something! I live in a completely different world than you bastards... Kill or be killed... That's the kind of world I live in. Heh, the current rules make more sense to me than that "Play nice and get along" crap."
"Don't treat me like a kid, bitch!"
"Hell no, not even if you paid me... Parties are stupid. They make me wanna puke..."
"Heh, I'm only buttin' in 'cause you fuckin' idiots are outta your element."
"Hey, that better be true! If you screwed up, I'll sell your fuckin' ass to a whorehouse!"
Chapter 2:

"Hmph...I'm not avoiding you bastards. ...I've just decided not to rely on anyone. That includes the Kuzuryu Clan... I can still survive without relying on them..."
"Don't get it twisted. I'm a yakuza by blood. It's not like I don't want to head the family business someday. I just want to prove I've earned it. Prove I can tough it on my own without relying on my clan."
"Anyway, I don't intend to spend any time with you guys. Nothing good can come of it. In this kind of situation, interacting with others will just shorten your lifespan... Those idiots, Byakuya and Teruteru, are proof of that. Plus...it'd be frustrating to be held back by affection when it's my time to kill!"
"Of course... I'll sacrifice the lives of everyone here if it guarantees my survival."
"Is that what you guys do? If you don't like your "buddy", you corner them... Tch, look at you sheep acting all righteous."
"You guys are fucking stupid... Don't get worked up over something so idiotic..."
"Heh...it's your loss if you end up dying. All we need to do is kill if we want to win."
"There's nowhere for me to run, anyway... So no matter the ending...I have to accept it, right? But still... I'm a yakuza! Accepting defeat is not an option!"
"I'm a yakuza...I won't run or hide..."
"Somethin' wrong with that!? It's just a fuckin' game, don't go mixing up some video game with reality!"
"If she was the type to die easily, I'd have fuckin' killed her myself a long time ago..."
"Tch... You sure do talk a lot of shit... Well, I'm used to it by now..."
"The only one childish enough to eat gummies is that midget over there."
"The only way to survive is to be suspicious... This is where we go to thoroughly doubt each other... So if you believe in each other so easily...then there's definitely somethin' wrong with you!"
"Dumbasses... You bastards don't know anything... If you're stupid enough to trust each other... ...the only thing waitin' for you is the bitter truth."
"Sh-Shut up! Just shut the fuck up and answer me! If you have an answer then fuckin' give it to me!"
"An eye for an eye"... That's the world I live in. For revenge...clubbing the person to death the same way my sister was killed just seemed to make sense... Even if it ruined my disguise, it was the only thing I could do to avenge my sister..."
"I'm sorry, Peko... I guess...I couldn't go through with it after all... Cause...if that's actually what I have to do to survive... I'd just feel ashamed of myself. It'd mean I can't live without depending on something... I'd just feel disgusted with myself... And...if I admit that... It means...you really are just a tool to me. How many times did I tell you..? I don't want a tool given to me by the Kuzuryu Clan..."
"How many times...do you have to keep... I don't need any tools... Jeez... Why don't you get it yet...? You stayed by my side...all this time... Why don't you get it...? I never needed...a sword...or a shield... I never needed...a tool... S-so... You didn't...need to become a tool... You just...you just needed to be yourself... I... I never wanted a tool! I just wanted you! Only you! Wh-Why!? Why couldn't you understand!? We've always been together, ever since we were kids! P-Please Peko! Don't go...! I need you! Don't leave me!"
Panic Talk Action Remarks:

"Got proof, you bastard!?"
"I'll sell your fucking organs!"
"That's obviously impossible!"
"You're pissing me off!"
"Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!"
"Bastard!"
"Don't fuck with me!"
"Ghghh..."
"If she used the bamboo sword as a stepstool, it would've been left behind!" (Final Argument)
Chapter 3:

"Heh... There's no way I'd die from something like this... There's no way...I can die..."
"I got something I wanna say! Whatever I say after this point... I apologize in advance if I make a mistake! My last name is Kuzuryu! My first name is pronounced, "Fu-yu-hi-ko"! I'm still an inexperienced member of my family's business! From this point forward, I hope we get along so we can get to know each other better!"
"Heh...it's only one eye. Besides, don't I look like I've gained some prestige or somethin'?"
"I-I didn't think...I'd be forgiven with such...a half-assed apology... But...if I don't do this...m-my feelings...won't feel resolved...! Tch...I feel so ashamed... I-In the end...I made trouble for everyone again..."
"I...never want to feel that feeling over again... If I have to feel that way again... I'll make sure I stop it, even if it costs me my life...! It's...just a little life Peko gave me... It's not precious anyway...!"
"Heh, even in such an abnormal situation...people still get hungry..."
"This life of mine is a spare anyway...! Whatever's happening over here, just leave it to us... We'll make sure to keep the disease from spreading..."
"W-were you guys sleeping together? Y-You dirty rotten bastard! You guys are fuckin' high school students!"
"I understand that you're worried...but there's nothing we can do here."
"Seeing is believing", as they say."
"...Oh well. Let's look forward to tomorrow."
"If it open, the only thing we can do is force our way through!"
"It doesn't matter if you can do it or not! We have to try!"
"Thinking like that won't do anything. We have to do this... If we don't do anything, we'll all be executed...!"
"All right, I'm definitely gonna find it...! I won't let the killer get away with this...!"
"What...? Do you still doubt me? Well, I'm used to it... It's true I've done things that I deserve to be doubted for... So don't worry...even if you doubt me, I don't plan on dismembering you and encasing you in concrete."
"You better not have kept quiet on purpose! This isn't a game, you know!"
"I'm not taking her side or anything...but being clumsy and unskilled in this area could lead to a mistake..."
"That's a little... Aren't you like the thief who suspects everyone else of being thieves?"
"Hey, Supreme Overlord of Who-Gives-A-Shit... That line doesn't suit you at all."
Chapter 4:

"Tch, like you said, we don't have time to just stand and stare..."
"What are you giving up for...dumbass! If we were brought inside this place, then there's definitely an exit out somewhere!"
"I'm sure you don't want to hear this, since I caused a similar incident... And I already know that a guy like me has no right to say this to you but... But...when I look at you, I just have to say something...! You don't need to act so stubborn, you know? 'Cause...I know what you're going through. The only reason you're standing here right now...is because someone sacrificed himself for you... You feel guilty about that. Isn't that right? So you don't want to be honest about it, huh... Well, I understand that feeling too... But like he said, it's better to just be alive... It might hurt to look at his painful appearance right now... But you're much better off because at least he's still alive! I mean...for me... ... S-Sorry... Right now...I feel very grateful to her... But I can't tell her that anymore. But you're different. So... Make sure you tell him how grateful you are..."
"Dammit! How much more of this do we have to take until he's satisfied!?"
"That piece of shit... How dare he pull such a dirty trick on civilians...!"
"Looks like...we don't even have the strength...to get upset..."
"Stop complaining... You're bringing me down..."
Chapter 5:

"You know... Every time we meet up here, it makes me realize just how crazy this whole situation is..."
"Seriously...I'm starting to realize how valuable Teruteru was..."
"Well, he's always been a dangerous bastard, but he's crossed the line, you know?"
"Well, it's true that I don't really expect much... But who said we weren't gonna go? Obviously we're gonna go, dumbass!"
"Nagito's a pain in the ass, but is there anything we can do about Kazuichi's idiocy...? He doubts everyone so easily and never apologizes for it... Well, I guess I'm used to it..."
"What a rude way to ask for help... If Mahiru was here, she would've beaten you up."
"Monokuma's trap...Monomi's trap...and now Nagito's trap... If we keep worrying about shit like that, we won't get anything done, dumbass!"
"Like I said, if you keep worrying about shit like that, you won't get anything done. Just prepare for the worst...!"
"...Now's not the time to complain about stuff like that!"
"The only thing we can do is split up and cover as much as ground as we can!"
"You can't! You don't even have a driver's license!"
"You bastards...what are you saying...? You guys can just beat the shit out of him, because I'm the one who's gonna fucking kill him!"
"Don't fuck with me...! We're tired of this too, you know...! That's why I'll definitely make sure to finish this for good this time...!"
"Even if we can go home...it'l be the end for us if we screw up here...!"
"But this is Monokuma we're talking about, you know? There's no way this'll end smoothly with a countdown..."
"The killer...managed to kill someone like Nagito... There's no way this is going to go smoothly... I mean...I still can't believe one of us was able to do that..."
"I also want to believe that there's no killer...but suicide is unimaginable."
"He's a fucking bastard who killed himself for his delusions of grandeur! It's not that unthinkable...!"
"...Just to be safe, huh? Tch, guess I have no choice... If that's the case, I'll do my best to go along with it."
"I-I get what you're saying but... In the end, the reason he died is still the same as before, right? Even if we solve this mystery, the conclusion won't change at all..."
"Looks like...we gotta do what we can... It's not like I believe she's the traitor, there's just no way we can ignore this without confirming it..."
"You're right...there's nothing to worry about...since...everyone's here..."
Chapter 6:

"Now's not the time to zone out."
"If that's the case, let's all leave this island alive by any means...!"
"Like Sonia said...if there's no more killing, we don't have to worry about anyone betraying us anymore."
"I-I don't believe it... There's no way I can believe this...! Ultimate Despair... Junko Enoshima... Heh, it doesn't scare me at all... I mean... Junko Enoshima is already dead!"
"An imitation is just that: an imitation. If the students from Hope's Peak Academy stopped the real deal, there's no way we'll lose to some fake!"
"Don't fucking mess with me, you bastard! Did you have us all come here just to tell us bullshit!?"
"You better not say we're fictional characters!"
"If a lie is a believable lie... You're saying it might become the truth?"
"But still...is it really okay to sacrifice the others just to save ourselves...?"
"Why are you surprised...? It's a computer program...so anything's possible, right?"
"What game!? This game is already over!"
"I-I know anything goes here...but this...this is clearly not fucking okay...!"
"Who fucking cares about logic!? As long as everyone who died comes back to life, that's good enough!"
"Anything goes in this world! You've seen that happen so many times already, right!?"
"We're obviously going to get out of here...! If it'll bring our dead friends back, it's all we can do!"
"We...can finally end this, you know... If we get out of here...it'll all resolve itself peacefully... After all this, I can't let you get in the way!"
"H-How dare you look down on us...!"
"Don't fuck with me! What about our lives!?"
"I...I won't forgive you...! I will...never, EVER fucking forgive you...!"
"You might think I'm a fool but... I...want to see Peko one more time..."
"This burden...don't you dare make us shoulder it..."
"I want to see Peko one more time..."
"I'm well aware it might be an act of suicide. There's no telling how this'll play out... But... I...I heard her voice. In fact...I think it was the first time she ever yelled at me... Heh, I can't stand on my own two feet if she keeps treating me like a damn kid!"
"You're so bad at explaining things... Now that it's the end, you should at least try a little harder!"
"Well, whether it has meaning or not, it all depends on us now..."
"Heh, with your colorful personalities, there's no way I'd forget you guys that easily!"

His first name (冬彦) can mean "winter boy" or "winter prince", while his last name (九頭龍) means "nine-headed dragon", which happens to be a deity in Japanese culture.
While his name means "winter boy", Fuyuhiko was born in the middle of summer.
His Free Time Events reveal that he hates milk due to being lactose-intolerant.
Despite the fact that many Yakuza members get tattoos, Fuyuhiko states that he does not have any.
Fuyuhiko was the first actual person to interfere an execution, as well as the first person to be harmed during an execution that was not prepared for him. The other being to interfere with an execution was Genocide Jack in Punishment of the Fighter.
Fuyuhiko is the only member of the Class 77-B to receive an external injury during the Neo World Program that matches the same injury he had sustained before entering the program.
During an Island Mode date, Fuyuhiko makes references to the Japanese yakuza films A Man from Abashiri Prison and The Yakuza Papers.
In Danganronpa IF, it is revealed that Yasuhiro Hagakure owes him and his clan 8 million dollars, because he extorted money from "the girl related to the Kuzuryu Clan".
Based on their interactions in the non-canon Danganronpa V3 bonus mode, Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Fuyuhiko is unaware that Yasuhiro scammed his sister and Yasuhiro is unaware Fuyuhiko's family is one of the families he owes money to.
Fuyuhiko's English voice actor, Derek Stephen Prince, also voices Kokichi Oma in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Gundham is a young man in his early twenties, around 22 at youngest. His virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as his 17 year old self.

He wears a long, black jacket that is always left open and, according to his reference sheet, is his school uniform. The left sleeve is pulled up to the elbow and held by silver pins and he wears a long purple scarf that often covers his mouth. The back of his jacket, as well as both ends of his scarf have a strange, vertical symbol printed on them. Under his jacket, he wears a white button-up shirt that is also left open, and another shirt under it which is slightly darker and has a greyish-purple cross design across its front. He seems to be wearing normal black pants held up with a black belt and silver buckle, and black boots with numerous straps across them.

Finishing Gundham's Free Time Events yields the item 'Gundham's Undergarments', which are invisible to those who have too low of an "astral level.", implying that Gundham doesn't actually wear one.

Gundham's skin tone is noticeably pale and greyish compared to the other characters, which could suggest that he doesn't get out much. His head appears to be shaved from the neck up to his temple, where the rest of his hair seems to be slicked back with the exception of a poof of hair in the middle that sticks up and is fairly curly. His hair color is black with pale grey streaks through it. This may either be due to bleaching his hair or a melanin deficiency known as poliosis, giving him several 'Mallen streaks'.

Interestingly, Gundham has no eyebrows, which is confirmed in the limited ion's art book.He has grey eyes, but his right eye has a red contact lens. He also has a greyish scar tattoo that runs down the left side of his face and through his left eye. His entire left arm, at least up to the elbow, is completely covered in bandages, presumably due to injuries that he received while taking care of or calming down his hamsters. His 'Hell Hound Earring' (Devil Dog Earring in the Japanese release) hangs from his right ear, and he wears two silver rings on his right hand (pointer and middle).

During his high school years at Hope's Peak Academy, he wore Hope's Peak Academy's uniform, but still had the same scarf, shirt, belt and boots. Instead of one Hell Hound Earring, he had one on each ear. His hair style is different, with the poof in the middle drooping over his forehead.

Gundham is also constantly next to or surrounded by his four hamsters, the Four Dark Devas of Destruction, San-D (orange and white), Jum-P (grey and white), Maga-Z (chipped ear), and Cham-P (big and orange). They apparently often camp out inside the scarf that Gundham always keeps wrapped around his neck, occasionally coming out every now and then.

As a member of Ultimate Despair, he seems to be wearing some sort of straitjacket along with an ordinary jacket with a very fluffy white collar. His face has more tattoos, including a new scar-like tattoo on his right cheek and a some sort of symbol on his forehead, and he seems to keep his eyes closed most of the time. As the most eye-catching trait, he tends to have a giant snake wrapped around him.


Gundhamdr3


Gundham has an eccentric and somewhat dark personality, his delusions of self-grandeur likely stemming from an inferiority complex and pseudo syndrome known as chuunibyou. He often claims that he has been blessed with the evil powers of the underworld, refers to everyone else as "pathetic human beings" and claims that even the gods themselves fear his power. He frequently rambles on about being the "Supreme Overlord of Ice" and an offspring of an angel and a demon with an interest in things like the dark arts, alchemy and astral levels. He is often lost in his own little world, preferring to be alone and usually paying more attention to himself or his hamsters than the things that are going on around him, such as in Chapter 1 when he failed to investigate after the murder and putting his lost Hell Hound Earring at a higher priority. As a result, he can come across as rather uncaring and self-centered.

Despite first impressions, Gundham is generally rather comical in what he says to Danganronpa spectators (not so much for characters actually talking to him) due to his behavior resembling an overly dramatic cartoon super villain. Humorously, he sometimes even compliments other characters if they say a "nice line". He can be somewhat contradicting or counterproductive—in his introduction, he tells Hajime Hinata to step forward and introduce himself, for Gundham will destroy him once he does. It is heavily implied that though he puts on the face of a loner who wouldn't dream of hanging out with pathetic mortals, Gundham actually may be very lonely as he once boasted that he was searching for solitude before wandering away slowly and silently. Furthermore, despite his dramatic and seemingly confident personality, he is actually quite shy when complimented or if he has a more intimate moment with someone, as he tends to blush a lot and quickly hides his face with his scarf. It also appears that he has very genuine and serious issues with social events and physical contact, as he has been very strict about not wanting to touch nor be touched by other people since he was a child, going as far to avoid certain activities altogether as a result. However, in his usual manner, he claims that he avoids physical contact because fatal poison runs in his veins and he can only be touched by very specific people with matching astral levels. He eventually gets better with both social and physical contact.

Despite his issues with people, Gundham genuinely cares about animals deeply (though he often refers to them as his evil minions due to his overlord persona), and understands them much better than he understands people. He claims that anything that can talk will eventually betray you and he highly respects the sincere nature of animals. He demands that animals must be treated respectfully and scolds people who fail to do that, but simultaneously wishes to educate and give advice to those who don't know how to treat certain animals correctly. In his Free Time Events, he tells Hajime that he runs an informational website about breeding which he maintains carefully, and he states that he pities livestock for being raised for the sole purpose of human consumption. This could mean that Gundham is possibly a vegetarian or vegan, though it is not confirmed, and his words may imply that he is only against eating animals when there is lots of human involvement he considers unnatural. He takes a great offense whenever humans intervene with animals' natural behavior and control their lives too much. In Island Mode, it's revealed that he even straight up hates anthropomorphic cartoon animal characters, likely considering their human-like behavior extremely insulting towards real animals.

In general, Gundham has great respect for the nature and its laws. He understands that nature can sometimes be harsh and cruel due to constant fighting for survival, and thus he does not have much issues with death, but he strongly dislikes the humans' methods that are often truly malicious and very disconnected from the natural order. Notably, he strongly dislikes the idea of giving up without a fight, as he believes that all creatures by nature fight to their last breath in order to live, and that giving up your life willingly would be a blasphemy towards life itself. When the students are starving and trapped in the Funhouse, Gundham and Nekomaru agree to duel to determine which one would be a sacrifice to get everyone out. Gundham ends up killing Nekomaru and when he's exposed as the murderer, he doesn't put up much of a defense nor seem to be that bothered by his actions, as he believes that fighting for survival and sometimes even killing another is necessary and natural. He later points out that Nekomaru could have ran or called for help, but instead chose to stand his ground against him. However, after Nagito suggests that he took Nekomaru from behind, Gundham is absolutely furious at the claim that he'd do something like that.

While he claims he is only motivated by his own will to survive, it is implied that Gundham may have been conflicted about sacrificing his friends and was partially motivated by his will to save them, though he of course denied this fiercely while relying on his overlord persona. Earlier, he even gave a rousing speech about the importance of hope and not giving up on life even in the face of despair, and thus nobody is really convinced by his declared motive. Nevertheless, it seems that he was also ready to let the others die according to his ideology (though it would've likely caused him guilt), if that was how the events turned out. While he showed some signs of panic earlier during the trial, in the end he accepts his fate with dignity and stands up confidently against his execution, with his only worry being the wellbeing of his hamsters. It is implied that his "evil" persona was overcompensation for his underlying, gentle spirit by creating an entirely new, exciting personality. Despite talking about going to Hell, his execution scene shows animal angels carrying him to Heaven, once again indicating that his true nature is good.

Interestingly, Gundham has moments when he shows deeper understanding of certain situations, such as being the only one who openly acknowledges that Nagito's way of thinking is grey morality (despite strongly disliking the other boy), and he states that murder is murder regardless of intentions.

While there isn't much information on his brainwashed self as the Ultimate Despair, it appears he used to lead intimidating armies of wild animals, likely possessing a danger to humans. He also kept his eyes shut and wore a straitjacket, which might symbolize the spiritual and emotional state he possessed at the moment. During his high school years, he only referred to himself as "Tanaka the Forbidden One", but he proudly proclaims his true name and identity after he is awakened from the coma with the brainwashing's effects removed.

Talent 
Ultimate Breeder 
Gundham is good at taking care of animals and knows how to treat each species right. He even understands them very well, almost like he can talk with them normally. Due to his understanding towards the feelings of animals, he tries not to involve himself with livestock and domestic animals who are fated to be eaten by humans.

Gundham is acknowledged as the Ultimate Breeder mainly due to his experiments and research on animals. He is researching different combinations of animals and trying to make a new species by hybridising them. Despite his looks, Gundham is very visionary as he has trusted agents who Gundham ordered to continue his research while he's gone. He chooses his agents carefully, picking the ones who know how to avoid any lethal genetics and trusted by Gundham to conduct no atrocious experiments. After he done with his research, Gundham would upload the result to his breeding journal website. He locked his website so that only people with special privileges given by Gundham can view it.

Gundham provides plenty of exercises, high-quality food, and a place to sleep for his breeds. He also has the ability to tame animals, even the wild ones. He reveals his secret technique to tame animals to Hajime. First, he must approach them with an innocent appearance and repeatedly speak to the animals, and make sure they understand that there is no ill will on his end. Some animals like to be touched and some don't. Afterwards, he will start to hear the tamed animals' "words" after spending a long time together. However, Hajime believes that this phenomenon only happens to the Ultimate Breeder himself.

Gundham dearly loves animals, especially his pet hamsters Four Dark Devas of Destruction. His bandaged left arm functioned as a protection for Gundham, since his hamsters often fight each other and accidentally bite Gundham's arm. He is very careful and patient when breeding animals. He also pays attention to their stress levels. It was revealed that Gundham was very worried with his hamster that he left behind.

In other 
Gundham's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Breeder
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「飼育委員」	Super High School Level Animal Breeder
Français Ultime Éleveur	Ultimate Breeder

Combat 
While it is never shown, Gundham is apparently quite confident in his fighting abilities enough to take on an army of heavily armed reserve course students with Nekomaru's assistance and fight Nekomaru in a one-on-one fight despite the latter having been transformed into a cyborg.


Prior to the 
As a child, Gundham lived with his mother; whether he had a father or not is unknown. Though he and his mother seemed to be in good relations, his mother was extremely terrible at cooking food which later became the basis for Gundham's self-belief that his body was filled with poison. He couldn't refuse to eat her food because she would start to cry if he didn't.

Gundham was never one for crowds or large events, and disliked it when he was touched by other people. He would often skip out on Sports Days and camp out in the school infirmary instead as so that he could avoid touching or being touched by other people.

Gundham has many other animals at home, and apparently has some very few, select people that he chooses as assistants in taking care of the animals he breeds. He also has a website about the dark arts, though he claims those that lack the proper abilities can only perceive a blog about animal breeding. He is also known for having successfully saved many endangered species with his breeding talents. 

Gundham used to attend Fazal Commerce High School and later enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Breeder, in the 77th Class. At some point, Gundham met Junko Enoshima, who manipulated him into joining the Ultimate Despair and soon started the Tragedy.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak Academy 
Gundham was seen on the top of the Animal Shed. He gave his homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome, and his classmates a dramatic speech. Everyone listened to him but due to have no time to waste Gundham agreed to join them without any difficulty.

After several students of the Class 77th's first group have been gathered, Chisa tasked them to clean the classroom while she off to retrieve Chiaki Nanami and the Ultimate Imposter. Gundham gladly accepted her request with the help of his Four Dark Devas of Destruction.

After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that everyone had waited and that the classroom was clean. When Gundham and the others once again bring up that they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
On the class, Gundham and the others take cover on the right side of the class from Akane Owari and Nekomaru's destructive training session. Later after they repaired their classroom, Gundham and the others busy playing games that Chiaki brought.

Gundham and Nekomaru's rivalry shown when they playing games. Their duel on the game ended with no one winning.

During the break time, Gundham and his classmates happily ate Teruteru and Hiyoko Saionji's nikujaga together. However to their unaware, Hiyoko already poured a bottle of aphrodisiacs within the food, making Gundham and the others lost their body control.

After he and the others recovered, Gundham returned to the class on the next day and heard Chisa's announcement to elect Chiaki as their class representative. Like the others, Gundham gladly accepted her decision

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At beginning of the episode, Gundham and his classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building. Later during the break time, Gundham lend his Maga-Z to be tamed by Kazuichi Soda.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Suprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
Gundham was listening to Chisa's announcement and reading about the information regarding the annual practical exam. He remained silence with the rests of his classmates due to the deaths of Natsumi Kuzuryu and Sato affected his class' morale greatly.

At the end of the episode, Gundham protested Chisa's transfer to the Reserve Course. However, the principal's decision can't be changed and he must bid his farewell to his beloved teacher.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Gundham was part of Chisa's welcome back party. Dueting with Sonia, they welcomed Chisa back using Gundham's uniqe way of speaking. During his teacher's transfer, it was revealed that Gundham's habit picked up and followed by Sonia.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
As they are clearing the classroom, Hiyoko inquires if Gundham's white rabbit is 'trash' and he immediately responds, hollering that it is an offering and requesting she takes her hands off him immediately. The rabbit is eventually returned to Gundham and he begins to calm it down. Later, him and the rest of the class have moved to their new classroom in the new school building.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
Gundham somehow managed to bring a live brown bear to class, apparently to demonstrate his talent with animals by performing a series of strange gestures with the animal. When the bear eventually bit Kazuichi and Teruteru's hands (which were holding a donut and a banana, respectively), Gundham claimed it was karmic retribution for the duo's off-color suggestions about Mikan Tsumiki and Ryota Mitarai's absence. He also pointedly ignored Mahiru Koizumi's repeated questions about how he managed to bring a live bear to class.

Following The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy, Gundham was among the rest of his class as they watched the Reserve Course students rioting outside the main school's gates.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by 
Gundham reported that his 'Twelve Zodiac Generals' (hamsters identical to the Four Dark Devas of Destruction) were unable to find Mikan despite their best efforts. Upon hearing from Nagito that Mikan was around the West District, Gundham and the class go search for her on the school grounds. He searched in a group consisting of Kazuichi and Sonia.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Gundham and the rest of the class reconvened at the school classroom after failing to find Mikan, assuming what Nagito told them was false information. Chiaki reaches the classroom with an unconscious Nagito, explaining to them that Chisa is in danger. Gundham becomes pleased at the chance to unleash his power. Nagito convincingly makes clear that it'll be dangerous and there is a possibility of them dying, to which Gundham contemplates these concerns but Chiaki convinces him otherwise.

Gundham is shocked to discover the Ultimate Imposter's true identity, although he came to accept it rather quickly given the situation. After leaving the Main Course building, they encountered a large group of Reserve Course students seeking to open placements on the Main Course by killing Ultimate students. Nekomaru and Gundham stayed behind to fend them off, Sonia wishing them both luck.

On the way down the stairway to Junko's lair, everyone becomes worried for Gundham and Nekomaru's safety. Kazuichi convinced Sonia that Gundham knew how to get things done, promptly realizing that he'd just helped his romantic rival's credibility.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope 
The class continue down the corridor after making their descent of the stairway. A door is flung upon unexpectedly, with two pairs of eyes glowing in the darkness, causing Kazuichi to scream loudly, Gundham and Nekomaru then appear from the dark hallway. The class is relieved that they are both okay. After Gundham explains in his own way that him and Nekomaru are tired from their battle, Akane becomes confused, expressing he's making less sense than usual, to which he smiles. He then continues by giving Mikan his thanks, Nekomaru explains that if it wasn't for Mikan telling them where to go over the phone, they would never have found the rest of the class. Ibuki proclaims all that is left is to save Chisa, to which Gundham and the rest of the class agree.

Mikan, now leading the group, approaches a large red door at the end of the corridor, pressing a button which opens the door, Gundham and the rest of the class follow her inside. Once inside, Junko reveals multiple monitors showing Chiaki Nanami's Punishment, Gundham horrified by what he is seeing, wants to find a way to save Chiaki but is powerless.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Gundham, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. As the broadcast ends, Gundham and the class fall silent, with a patterned swirl in their eyes, they have now lost their hope and become part of Ultimate Despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Gundham and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher and started reading a letter she prepared. Gundham and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa started to cry. The patterned swirled return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. After Sonia expressed that she will bring her country peace and no war, Gundham voiced that his class 'have all proven to be true comrades'. After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activated a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Gundham and his class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak Academy's destruction.

Chisa's narration later revealed Gundham helped to infect the world with despair.

During the 
The members of Ultimate Despair did all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world. Gundham was seen commanding an army of animals, wearing a large snake around his own body like a scarf.

After the death of Junko, the remnants of the Ultimate Despair attached some of her body parts into their own bodies in order to make her survive within them and feel closer to her. They then agreed to an insane plan to have AI Junko take over their bodies, so they could resurrect their leader.

The remnants of Despair are later found by Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by AI Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
As a member of Ultimate Despair, seen in the flashback, Gundham led his wild animals army on Tokyo's main street, ready to devour anyone spotted walking on the road.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Gundham can first be found in the Airport, along with Kazuichi, and is quick to alarm Hajime with his extraordinary personality. In the beginning, he seemed to keep his distance from all the other students on the Island, not participating in the Beach Party and not doing anything particularly noticeable.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
Gundham plays an important part in the Class Trial of Chapter 1, due to him losing his precious Hell Hound Earring at the Ultimate Imposter's party. At some point in the party, Gundham had dropped his Hell Hound Earring that he claims he got from a fearsome Hell Hound, which was a Pomeranian, which he later discovered to have fallen between the floorboards under the Old Lodge.

With Chiaki Nanami's help, Gundham had gone around the building to look for a place to get in under to no avail, and later found a secret door in the Storage of the lodge that allowed him to get under the floorboards and retrieve his earring; all information which helped to prove Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu innocent and pin Teruteru Hanamura as the culprit.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
Gundham is seen at the restaurant with everyone else grieving over the death of their two friends. He is later seen joining in on commenting about Hiyoko Saionji's smell, saying that it was as if a demonic eclipse was going to happen.

Gundham is also seen mocking Monokuma about losing one of his Monobeasts, until Mahiru Koizumi tells him to stop. He later agrees with the others to find a way to escape.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
After the events of Chapter 2, Gundham explores the third island's hospital. He states that the hospital brings back memories, stating he went to one after obtaining the "mark of defeating the devil". He later tells Hajime to forget what he said. After Hiyoko's construction of a sinister memorial for Mahiru, Gundham came in late to the Restaurant after everybody else right after they had managed to stop Hiyoko's crying. Even he was shocked to see the memorial and claimed it stunk of evil intentions and spirits, unintentionally making Hiyoko cry again.

Later, When Gundham discovered that Hajime and Kazuichi came to join the girls-only party, he said that he needs to be alone, which according to Hajime's mind that he actually want to join the party too.

Gundham was one of the students along with Sonia Nevermind, Kazuichi, Hiyoko, and Chiaki who moved to the Motel after the outbreak of Despair Disease. Hajime met him on his way to the hotel after the discovery of Ibuki Mioda's body in the music venue, giving Gundham an alibi as to where he was when Hiyoko's body was discovered in the same place later.

Around this chapter, he began to become friends with Sonia, much to Kazuichi's unhappiness and leading to an argument in the Third Trial where they both threatened to kill each other.

Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Electric Clocks?
In Chapter 4, Gundham helped explore the Strawberry and Grape Houses and their respective Towers with Sonia. Gundham was one of the boys who stayed in the Strawberry House, and was given one of the two Deluxe Rooms to stay in, Nagito taking the other.

Initially, Gundham did not seem particularly alarmed at the fourth motivation as announced by Monokuma, which was starvation until a murder took place, and he found that the seeds of the flowers planted around the Strawberry House were sufficient food for his hamsters.

However, refusing to have everybody just idle around until they all dropped from starvation, Gundham planned and carried out the murder of Nekomaru on the third day of starvation by using the secret of the Fun House to drop Nekomaru from a height of four floors, very successfully killing him.

Gundam vs Mechamaru
Nekomaru and Gundham's face-off.

In the Class Trial, as the evidence pointing to him began piling up, Gundham became noticeably panicked and surprisingly angry, even slightly losing his usual manner of speech. After Hajime gave out the decisive evidence that proved Gundham as the concrete culprit of Nekomaru's death, he began to exhibit behaviour that slightly implied borderline loss of mentality, urging on all the students to send the unsavory vote against him and send him to his execution.
However, it was all an act to try and remain being seen as the "villain", an act Gundham had kept up most of his life. Calming down he explained the true events of what happened between Nekomaru and him, revealing that before Nekomaru died the two of them had a duel to win the rights to keep living, with Gundham emerging as victor.

Before Gundham leaves for his execution, he states how it was despicable how all the students planned to just let their short, single life go. He tells them of the importance of life and how it is necessary to keep fighting for however many days they have left on Earth and keep clinging on to it.  

All the students keep Gundham's speech on remembering the importance of living after his death, promising each other that they would stick together and never let another life go to waste. Akane forgives Gundham for his murder of Nekomaru, going off to eat some proper food for the first time in days because "that's what living's about".

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
Currently, Gundham is most likely comatose, just like most of his classmates. The survivors of the Killing Game are waiting for him and the rest of their classmates to wake up.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Gundham returned as a part of Nagito's imaginary world following his death from the Neo World Program.

Before class began in the morning, Gundham is seen staring out a window while his pet bear Grizner is being fed meat by Teruteru.

Gundham later attended Kazuichi's funeral due to him being murdered by the World Destroyer. Gundham waited outside after the service with the rest of the Class 77-B before leaving, wearing a hooded coat to shield himself from the rain.

Real-
After Nagito awoke from the simulation, he learned that all of his friends, including Gundham, were alive and awake from the Neo World Program. He boarded the boat with the rest of Class 77-B and they all then headed for the Future Foundation Headquarters.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of 
Gundham returned in Side: Hope alongside the rest of the Class 77-B, having been resurrected by Izuru Kamukura. After rescuing Byakuya Togami and Yasuhiro Hagakure from being trapped under rubble, Gundham engaged the mind-controlled Future Foundation forces. He battled the former Ultimate Falconer on the roof of the building, unlocking the seal on his name and unleashing his full power. By doing so, he was able to take control of his foe's falcon and defeated him.

Later on, he helped to convince Ryota to abandon his plan to brainwash the world. When Hajime began convincing him to join them, Gundham stated he 'need not show restraint when walking the path of carnage'. Shortly afterword, he and the other Remnants of Despair shoulder the blame for the Final Killing Game in a broadcast to the Future Foundation, relieving the organization of any wrongdoing.

With the battle won, Gundham and the Class 77-B return to Jabberwock Island. He is last seen talking with Sonia as the boat takes them home.


Main Article: Gundham Tanaka Stampede

Family:
His 
Gundham lived with his mom during his childhood. Even though he greatly disliked his mother's terrible cooking, he didn't want to make her cry and forced himself to eat her cooking. It is indicated that her mom raised him alone and he genuinely loves and respects her as a result. Gundham has referred to himself as the offspring of an angel and a devil, possibly indicating that he sees his mother as an angel while considers his father who doesn't appear to be around a devil.

His 
Four Dark Devas of 
His most loyal pets they can be seen with him at all times from his time at Hope's Peak Academy, to his time as a Remnants of despair and the Neo World Program.

Class 77-B:
Sonia 
Though they were already shown to speak to one another before, Sonia and Gundham's friendship truly blooms during Chapter 4 after they finished the Roller Coaster ride and Sonia asked to accompany Gundham on a trip to an amusement park in hell. They became very close due to their complimenting interests (such as Sonia's interest in the occult with his odd behavior, or her liking of his "cute hamsters"). Sonia showed interest in Gundham's hamsters multiple times, which successfully flustered Gundham and made him blush.

Sonia constantly sides with Gundham, even going off with him to explore the Fun House before Kazuichi noticed. In the main story, Sonia is also the only one who has made Gundham blush. It's implied that they have a romantic interest in each other, much to Kazuichi's annoyance.

She is also the only one that Gundham does not refer to as kisama (a way of saying 'you' that suggests contempt, or alternatively an archaic polite form of 'you') or by their last name, instead calling her "she-cat" at one point or "the Dark Queen", which is mentioned to be his fantasized version of Sonia. He claims that the Dark Queen has great power, which has not been awakened yet.

When Gundham is deemed the culprit of Chapter 4, Sonia refuses to believe it, urging him to object against Hajime's accusations. Gundham did defend himself but was unusually silent, and Sonia begged him to say something many times. She also pleaded with Monokuma to save Gundham from his execution, but finally let Gundham go after she was convinced by Gundham himself. He told her actions were "unbecoming of someone of your status".

Gundham's Four Dark Devas of Destruction are entrusted into Sonia's care after his "death". After Gundham's execution, Sonia has a new resolve to make it out alive without anymore killings because of his last words about not giving up.

During their time at Hope's Peak Academy, Sonia latched onto Gundham's eccentric personality when Chisa left and the two bonded. Gundham refers to Sonia as "she-cat" and while he enjoys her investment in the occult, he considers her a low-ranking demon. Much to Kazuichi's jealousy, the two got very close as time passed and they can even finish each other's sentences.

Kazuichi 
Gundham and Kazuichi end up locked in a form of rivalry with each other over Sonia, due to Sonia preferring to be around Gundham, while Kazuichi has a strong liking for Sonia. Although the feeling of rivalry was mostly one sided (from Kazuichi) at first, they end up arguing in Chapter 3's Class Trial, both throwing around childish insults and threatening to kill each other. Otherwise, in Gundham's eyes, Kazuichi is at the Pathetic Mortal level and he does not pay him much attention.

Nagito 
Gundham appears strange even for Nagito, as even he is confused by the other's eccentric behavior. During the Despair Disease, Gundham states that he would not mind if Nagito died, but it should be noted that he also appears to be one of the few characters who understands that Nagito has grey morale instead of simply black and white.

Nekomaru 
Despite not seeming to talk much during their time in Class 77-B, they both fought together against brainwashed Reserve Course students during The Parade, successfully defeating them offscreen and getting to their other classmates, implying that they may fight very well together.

In Chapter 4 trial in Danganronpa 2, it is revealed that Gundham was the one who murdered Nekomaru. Before he is executed however, Gundham clarifies that he did not in fact ambush Nekomaru, but challenged him to a duel to the death as he figured that out of all his classmates.

Nekomaru would understand and agree the easiest the need for self sacrifice the most in order to prevent everyone from starving to death in the Funhouse. Nekomaru understood his intentions and agreed to the duel. Through this information, one can assume that Nekomaru nor Gundham felt any ill will towards the other regardless of who won or lost.

Reserve Course Students:
Hajime 
At one point, Gundham is implied to have tried to follow Hajime and the rest of the students, though when discovered, he denied it and went away. Hajime and Gundham become rather good friends through Free Time Events, and in his final FTE (which takes place in the Strawberry House), Gundham makes Hajime sign a contract via handshake and declares that with the contract, Hajime will not be permitted to die without exclusive permission from Gundham Tanaka himself. Hajime thinks to himself that he would like to return that promise back to Gundham, though he figured that Gundham might get angry instead. Comically, their handshake ends in a mutual hand-squeezing to the death.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Gundham Tanaka
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Gundham in order to learn more about him. If he gives Gundham a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Gundham will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Gundham's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Gundham's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567X
Gundham Tanaka's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Roborovski hamster	Djungarian hamster	Golden hamster
You're getting ready to poison someone	You enjoy poison	Your mom's an awful cook
--	--	--
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 018 Sunflower Seeds DR2 Present 031 Earring of Crushed Evil DR2 Present 056 Small Degenerated Reactor DR2 Present 108 Angel's Fruit

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Gundham grants the following skills:

Infinity Unlimited Flame	Increases the power of the silencer.
Effective during the Nonstop Debate. Cannot be combined with Cheat Code.	4 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Gundham Tanaka

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"Kehehe, would you like to know my name? Others may see your courage as recklessness... However...I welcome it. In honor of your courage, I shall reveal to you my name. May you never forget is as long as you live! You may call me...Gundham Tanaka! Remember it well, for it is the name that will one day rule this world!"
"Hmph! Is it wrong to call trash "trash"? Trash like you should not dare to speak to one as grand as me! Who do you think I am? I am the great and powerful Gundham Tanaka, Supreme Overlord of Ice!"
"Taming evil by using myself as a bed... Truly, this is the secret art of the Tanaka Empire!"
"One of my Four Dark Devas of Destruction, Mirage Golden Hawk Jum-p, has this to say: "We're not used to going easy on our enemies...so don't make us angry. You wouldn't like us when we're angry."
"If you wish to know, you must pay my price... After all, this world is ruled by the law of equivalent exchange... However, is someone like you capable of offering a tribute that would satisfy a tyrant such as myself?"
Chapter 1:

"A bold boast... However, let me give you some advice. The truly strong...do not raise their voice so recklessly."
"All civilizations are destined to collapse... Nothing begets existence...and existence begets nothing..."
"No problem... No matter how large this organization may be, they will not be able to stand against us... They are destined to fall and turn to ash at the might of my Four Dark Devas of Destruction!"
"Even though that man is a lowly worm, it appears his cooking skills are most impressive, indeed... Nevertheless, even his food cannot stand against the gourment cuisine of the multiverse..."
"...All is not what it appears to be."
"You humans...are so satisfied with clothing yourselves in layers of false knowledge! But even with all those layers, you still will not survive the winter! Tch! It was foolish of me to rely on you fools... Fine, I shall do something about it on my own. Now if you'll excuse me, I must go save the world."
"As long as the probability is greater than zero...that will suffice."
"Remember this well! A main character arrives when he intends to!"
"Simply listening is...acceptable... However, I won't allow it to end with mere play! Now then, let us lift the curtain for a bloody spectacle!"
"Kehehe... It's understandable. After all, you fools only view the world through eyes of glass... But I am different! With the power of my Four Dark Devas of Destruction, it is of no concern! Truly, this is the "Evil Fourth Eye!" Before the might of the "Evil Fourth Eye," all visual chaos is rendered asunder!"
"Fuhaha! Tremble with fear, fools! Behold my power!"
"Very well... Even if we are not able to change the future, I guess I should at least change my tomorrow..."
Chapter 2:

"He is cursed... A child who summons misfortune, so to speak."
"Though this is merely the prelude, the climax will occur soon after... Now then, let me hear your scream! I shall make such sweet music for you!"
"A new land has opened... However, it does not mean we will find salvation there... Griefs is all that awaits us...but that would be quite entertaining!"
"Monokuma...I shall listen to you spout nonsense all you want, while I puff cigar smoke at your lifeless body."
"The wind is running amok today... It's carrying the lost souls of Byakuya and Teruteru. Are they destined to be cradled against the Heavenly Mother's bosom, or to burn in the fires of Gehenna...? Perhaps you should pray for them, human child... It's possible that prayer might save their souls..."
"Hmph, that's truly a nice line. Every fiber of my being agrees with you. That's right, there is no existence more troublesome than that of an incomprehensible human... What they like and what they hate... What makes them happy, what makes them angry... It's normal for all beings to have standards rooted in experience so they can predict their opponent's actions. But at times...those standards do not work on certain opponents. Those are the most fearsome opponents of all. Establishing a relationship with such a human...is impossible."
"The wind is very quiet...I do hope it is not an ominous portent..."
"Despite your lowly intellect, you humans attempt to create worlds within games, but... Fuhahahahaha! How humorous, how pitiful! You humans behave like gods in your fictional worlds... That act alone is an imitation of us. Because... The reality you humans cling to and believe to be real is merely one of the countless board games we won!"
"What sort of supreme ruler feels concern for the ants who are destined to be crushed!? My name is Gundham Tanaka! I am the forbiden ruler who makes even the god of darkness flee in terror! All I desire...is silence and indifference..."
"There is nothing you can hie from me, the supreme overlord who wields the Four Dark Devas of Destruction. It matters not, for what I love is silence and solitude..."
"You should be honored... A mere human such as yourself will be present to witness the beginning of the end!"
"Tanaka may be an ordinary family name, but it's far better than Sato or Suzuki!"
"The investigation conducts universal chaos..."
"Your stance is neither white nor black, but gray... And you do not yearn for your life, or even for victory..."
"Among flowers, the cherry blossom. Among men, the samurai." I commend your decisiveness, at least... Very well. If you admit it, this ends now! Let's cast our votes!"
"There are no second chances in life... We cannot return to what has already transpired... There is no other way than to move forward, like an arrow of light piercing through the darkness..."
Chapter 3:

"...Humans are such foolish creatures."
"Kehehe, for you to actually greet me in the morning... I praise your admirable endeavor, slave. Speaking of slaves... Peko, too, was a foolish soul... I accept her desire to merely remain her owner's loyal tool. However...that's a limitation of base creatures. My Four Dark Devas of Destruction are not tools, nor are they slaves... They are healthy underlings...and also friends whose loyalty is matched by their devotion to military rule! At times, we clash over our ideals and our tempers flare... But that only bolsters our power, and allows us to reach greater heights! That is why I will one day exist as the Supreme Overlord of this world!"
"I would not mind if Nagito retired...permanently..."
"Kehehe...there's no need to panic. Even I...attend to the needs of my Four Dark Devas of Destruction."
"Fret not...we are not going to abandon you. I shall station myself nearby in case anything happens. We must be vigilant about protection! I have those who I must protect!"
"That is an unkind thing to say, you fiend...! How dare you call my Four Dark Devas of Destruction, "hamsters"!"
"...You seriously are a loud one. Your presence alone ruins tense situations. ...Ever since your character was formed!"
"Like last time...if this means no one of us killed these two... Then...we cannot let this be."
"Abandon your overdependence and complaints this instant... Those have no place in this world."
"Pitiful humans...they refuse to lift their heads up for fear of doubting the authenticity of the blue sky..."
"Hmph, it's about time I showed my serious side."
"Jeez, how troublesome... But I suppose I can display my true power for the sake of our two fallen comrades."
"Kehehe... How light... Your words are so light, as light as the sylph's feather... Fuhaha! Your opponent is out of your league! It is too absurd to try to perplex me so inadequately!"
"Fuhaha, is that it!? A shepherd dressed in his Sunday's finest still reeks of lamb, Hajime Hinata!"
"Does that mean you have a rebuttal?" ...Hmph, that's a good line. But...are you sure you're sure? If I show you how serious I am, this world might be destroyed, you know! You're so frightened you can't even make a sound... It seems you've realized our difference in status. However, the time for conviction starts now! You better entertain me to the fullest!"
"It appears that...it is wiser to retreat for now... Fine then... But regardless of good or evil, there's no deceit in upholding one's convictions."
"Hmph. Kazuichi... It seems you have quite the fashion sense... Do you want me to incinerate your clothes? Perhaps I could do that while you're wearing them?"
"Of course... I've already overlooked no less than then opportunities to kill you...!"
"I agree...it is truly difficult to believe someone could be killed by such a slow-witted woman..."
"If you are happy...you should honestly greet him with open arms. Perhaps those who have been taken from us would do the same if they still lived..."
Chapter 4:

"I don't know what you're planning, fiend, but we're not going to fall for it...!"
"Is a mere human going to offer his opinion to me, an Overlord? Fascinating, fascinating, you fiend! I'll play your game, you rogue. Come, tell me... Try to satisfy my Four Dark Devas of Destruction!"
"...I already told you. Hamsters are merely their temporary form. A fiend like you is incapable of imagining what would happen once they shed their transient guises. Kehehe, ignorance is horrendous... That's why it's only interesting to converse with humans once in a while."
"Be still...my heart!"
"Plunging yourself into a trap is an act of sheer madness... Fuhahaha! That's what makes it truly interesting!"
"Fuhahahaha! The madder the action, the more interesting it is!"
"He probably wants to live like humans as much as he can... Such is the sad nature of robotic organisms..."
"I have waited for you, Invading Black Dragon, Cham-P! Exert your strength to your heart's content!"
"Where were you? I swear, making an Overlord wait... Very well... But this won't happen a second time."
"Kazuichi... You should be grateful to Sonia. If you'd gotten your hands on my Four Dark Devas of Destruction, your body would be incinerated by hellfire!"
"Kazuichi...and you lowly humans... Fall to your knees and show your gratitude to me, the Overlord of Ice of the Destroyed World of Death!"
"Allow me to tell you a little old story... I was born as a result of a union between a human and a demon, and my existence was shunned by both races... Perhaps it's because nobody has ever bought me a toy before, but I believe this is truly remarkable..."
"Have you fiends made up your mind? Don't forget to pray to your god. Well, it's not like I have a god to pray to, anyway... I already know...God has been wiped out by my very own hands!"
"Emissary of evil... In accordance with our ancient contract... The time has come to lend me your aid... Pierce through! Supernova Silver Fox San-D!"
"I see, your eyes managed to follow San-D's movements... As expected of the Dark Lady, you have my praise."
"Now then, kittens! Choose which house you would like!"
"So I take 2nd place... That's fine. I was getting bored of always being on top."
"Wait to die from impending starvation... Or wait for someone to kill someone else before that happens... At any rate, it's a rather difficult situation."
"It's a tantamount to being killed twice... Truly...he was a man burdened by terrible misfortune..."
"...Is this acceptable? If I show my serious side, things will not end with mere child's play."
"The killer's intent... I can think of only one explanation. Perhaps...they intended to keep me from entering the scene of the crime. Which means the killer was afraid! Afraid of the conclusion promised by my assumptions!"
"The time has come to destroy all murderous illusions...!"
"Even mongrels like you possess a soul... And that soul resides within your heart... But no matter how hard you search the insides of this machine, you will never find a heart. So where did Nekomaru's soul wander off to...? It's interesting to think about, don't you agree?"
"It appears that the Netherworld is behind this occurrence. Fortunately, for you humans... The portal created by the demon's power was too small, so it existed in this realm for only a brief second... But the portal's impact managed to dislodge the chain... And it was sucked into the portal as it closed shut! This is the truth behind the chain's disappearance!"
"I agree. I detect the scent of danger. Even my familiars are saying, "Do not go inside..." How interesting! If you can kill me, you're welcome to try! Try stabbing your sword through my very heart! Fuhahahahahaha!"
"That's right...you've seen it clearly. Because I, the one who has claimed dominion over evil, am the Ultimate Weapon! I am he who cuts the insolent catalyst which flows out from the chaos with the sword of victory... It's only fitting that I deserve to be called the Ultimate Weapon...!"
"There is no such thing as murder for the sake of hope. Murder is simply murder... Forcibly sacrificing others for one's own desires...! Even one as diabolical as I would avoid such actions!"
"Hmph... Don't just make things up when you don't know the method..."
"There's no point in saying that. "If" does not exist in this world!"
"If the bell of catastrohpe rings throughout the night, it is the universe's providence to stop it..."
"Answer me this... Including myself and my Four Dark Devas of Destruction, how many ears do we possess? The answer is ten... That's right, I possess ten ears... That means I have five times the hearing of a normal human! The soundproof system here may as well not exist!"
"D-Do not panic... The truth...shall now commence!"
"At the time, I left my room to go to the bathroom. By coincidence, I heard the alarm. That's right, that's all it was... The world is always so simple."
"Kehehe...I was simply at a loss for words after being dumbfounded by your pathetic assumption... In fact, I shall deny the very basis! Your assumption has been wrong since the beginning! Fuhaha, have you learned your lesson, pitiful humans!? You cannot overcome this contradiction!"
"Hmph, if you value your life...you should stop with your scrutiny..."
"Don't make me angry! You wouldn't like me when I'm angry!"
"Hold on...y-you, what did you just say? ...That...I didn't battle...!? Don't...mess with me...! Don't mess with meeeeee! I cannot ignore those words!"
"You fools...do not understand... You don't understand at all...! Ha! You make me laugh! After all this time, you still don't understand anything at all! ... It appears...I cannot finish just yet...! Maybe I'm just a human destined for hell! However...I cannot finish just yet! I cannooooooooooooooot fiiiiiiniiiiiish! It's obvious! I'm going to destroy your illusory assumptions!"
"Just as I thought, truly frail...succumbing so easily to this simple argument...it was just a mere illusion... Fuhahahaha! If you want to set me up as the killer, at least surpass your own human limitations!"
"Hmph, such a wonderful line... However, I cannot say that I'm satisfied. Listen well! I shall teach you two tips for making someone admit their defeat! First, you must crush them with your own overwhelming power... And as for the other... ...You must provide a reason that will persuade that human! You...have not fulfilled either of those yet!"
"Kehe... Kehehe...fuhahahahaha! Not just myself...but you actually brought up how splendid my subordinates are... ...Hmph, I have no recourse but to admit it."
"It appears I've obtained a one-way ticket to hell... Fine! Then you must trample me underfoot and advance! Victory can only be built upon a foundation of corpses! You cannot find peace without sacrifice anywhere! Now, trample this life! Trample it as though it were mere trash on the side of the road! Pull the curtain strings of this worthless performance with your own two hands!"
"Kehehe... Splendid... Fuhahahaha, that was splendid! For a mere human, you did quite well!"
"...You don't wish to forgive me? Do you feel regret? Then finish it! Cast your impure votes for Gundham Tanaka! My beloved, deadly foes! Let the voting time begin!"
"...Why do you want to talk to one who has lost? The loser merely leaves... It would just be unnecessary for me to say something... Nekomaru did fight...that is no mistake... And because he fought, he lost...and died. If he was just trying to cling to life, there are many ways he could have done so... However...he did not allow that... In that situation...if he wanted to run away, it would have been easy for him to do so. He could have run away...or even called for help... But...he did not turn his back to me. Instead...he chose a fight that risked life and death. He was serious, too. He gave it his all to try to kill me..."
"I am the warlock, Gundham Tanaka... Heroes, lords of darkness, and even the gods themselves flee from me... I need not cling to any trivial reason! I'm simply going to kill you because your very existence is an annoyance!"
"Nekomaru Nidai! Your blood will drench the foundation of my empire!"
"Hmph... I will not argue... I have no intention of forcing my values upon you. However, I must say this! What's the point of living if you're just waiting until you finally die? There's nothing courageous about that! That is abandonment! A mere feeling of resignation! Ever since we were locked inside that building, everyone had been dominated by that feeling of abandonment... However...nothing is born from resignation. That is simply a reason to give up. Giving up on life... That's just an insult to life itself! Have you fools heard of the term, "dog eat dog?" In zoology, cannibalism is a commonly observed phenomenon... Many creatures at some point in their life span engage in cannibalism. That is what it means to live! If you say killing for the sake of living is "evil," then what would you call giving up on life itself? If a world would consider that justice, then I will fight that world with every last fiber of my being! Giving up on life and choosing death...is nothing but a blasphemy toward life. It is a violation of the natural order! It is the arrogance of humanity!"
"That man...had the courage to die when he needed to die. That is why he challenged me to our battle... Regardless...as I've already said, I do not intend to force my values upon you fools. I have betrayed you all... That is the absolute truth. But...even so... Don't you think it's a better alternative to slowly starving to death here...?"
"Hmph...I can't believe you would ask such a foolish question. Just who do you think I am!? I am Gundham Tanaka, history's greatest monster! My cursed existence is feared by all mankind! There's no way I'd sacrifice myself for the sake of you fools! Not in a million, not in a billion, not in 10,000 billion years! In the name of Pandaemonium, it is impossible!"
"Now then, let us be rid of this foolish talk. It's about time the fun started...! Monokuma! Let us begin!"
"Sonia... An act as unrefined as stopping a man from going to his death...does not befit a noble such as yourself."
"Yes, I do not mind...however... ...What is it, my Four Dark Devas of Destruction? Are you worried about me? Oh, my feared Four Dark Devas of Destruction, that is not like you at all... However, there is no need to fear... In this world, I am only a temporary visitor... I was simply visiting for a moment...and now that my duty is complete, I must return to the darkness... That is why, until the very end... Pride! Conceit! Courage! Insolence! Fearful of nothing! Daunted by nothing! Let us laugh uproariously! That is Gundham Tanaka! I shall stick with my evil until the very end! Open Sesame, Pandaemonium! I shall fill hell with true hell! FUHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!"
Panic Talk Action Remarks:

"I won't let you!"
"For the Tanaka Empire!"
"This pressure...!"
"Amen!"
"Wither..."
"Show me the cadaver!"
"Crushed as David prophesized!"
"You weakling!"
"It's Nekomaru's back! Do you really think I can get behind him so easily!?" (Final Argument)
Chapter 5:

"Tremblewithfear!@%’*)P()~)~%$# Iwilldie2wiceeeeeeeeeeeee:@`?" (Gundham's cottage post-fifth trial)
"Hmph, a coincidence you say? Wrong! That is the will of casuality guiding you."

The kanji in Tanaka means "rice field" and "center". Together this may mean "central rice field". The kanji for Gundham use irregular readings, though can roughly mean "snake eye dreams".
His name is a reference to the popular Japanese mecha anime, Mobile Suit Gundam, which later spawned an entire long-running series. His execution refers to a particular scene from the original anime as well.
The choice of his Japanese voice actor, Tomokazu Sugita, is a meta joke to his name, as Sugita, though always express his desired to voice act a Gundam pilot, is one of the few major Sunrise-aligned voice actors who never gets to voice act a major character (Gundam pilots) in the Gundam series.
In Danganronpa 3, Gundham's first name is never mentioned, not even in the s. This may be due to risking copyright infringement from Sunrise - in-universe, Gundham claims that his first name is "cursed" and cannot be spoken aloud.
However, in the Side: Hope, Gundham breaks the seal on his name and declares himself to be Gundham Tanaka. Interestingly, in the speech he makes prior, he mentions about a rising sun (or even sunrise in some translations), most likely a reference to the Sunrise company.
His nickname in Danganronpa 3, "Tanaka the Forbidden One", is a direct reference to the Yu-Gi-Oh! card, "Exodia the Forbidden One".
Gundham's title in the original Japanese release, "Super High School Level Breeding Club Member", is a bit more specific than his English title. The Breeding Club (whose Japanese name could also be interpreted as "Animal Care Club") is a common after-school club in many Japanese schools dedicated to taking care of the animals (usually small birds, reptiles and rodents) kept within the school grounds. As made clear by his many achievements as a Breeder, Gundham has transcended the regular Breeding Club member's expertise by leaps and bounds - which may be the basis for his claims about his existence being superior to that of humans'.
The names of Gundham's four hamsters are: San-D, Jum-P, Maga-Z and Cham-P. All of the names are references to shōnen manga magazines (Sunday, Jump, Magazine, and Champion).
Girls Gun 2 x Danganronpa Game Gundham Tanaka
Gundham and his hamsters in the Danganronpa 3 x Hōkai Gakuen collaboration.

In the Danganronpa Another Episode artbook, a beta model who appears to be Gundham controlling Robo Justice robot is seen. This could hint that Gundham was originally going to appear probably as a boss as part of the Ultimate Despair.
This could also be a reference of the anime of Mobile Suit Gundam as Gundham's name is a reference to that anime.
In Island Mode, Gundham states that he isn't very effective against "water-types", possibly hinting that he can't swim.
Gundham and his hamsters are included in the collaboration of Danganronpa 3 x Hōkai Gakuen.
Gundham's English voice actor, Chris Tergliafera, also voices Ryoma Hoshi in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.
Gundham's stage actor, Masahiro Inoue, is married to Sonia's 2015 stage actress, Jamie Natsuki.

Hiyoko is a young woman in her early twenties, around 22 at youngest. Her virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as her 17-year-old self.

She is a very petite, slender girl with long, blonde hair that is generally seen tied into curved twin tails. At first sight, Hajime remarks that her voice and her appearance don't give off the air of a high schooler at all. In the game, she has orange eyes and keeps her hair up with two hair-ties, both of which consist of a green ribbon with a cat face in the middle.

Hiyoko is dressed in an orange, traditional furisode kimono with a white floral print pattern, and a green obi sash which is tied around her waist and secured with a bow at the back. In her official artwork, she is instead dressed in a pink kimono with a red sash, her hair put up in one ponytail instead of two, tied up with a Kanzashi with pink flowers and holds a fan.

Hiyoko goes through a significant growth spurt during her time at Hope's Peak, which she completes before the beginning of her second year. When older, Hiyoko is shown to be much taller and bustier. She has only one ponytail tied back with a black scrunchie. Hiyoko also wears a yellow kimono with a pink rose-outline pattern and a purple obi sash. She also wears zori (Japanese sandals). Her outfit reflects the fact she is the Ultimate Traditional Dancer.

As the Ultimate Despair, she keeps her hair free.


Saionji hiyoko dr3 growth spurt
Hiyoko's appearance post growth spurt.


Hiyoko's cute appearance, voice, and (initially) her way of talking give off the impression she is innocent and childlike. However, in her introduction alone, it is quickly revealed that she is very direct and cruel with a malicious side in how she squishes ants while telling Hajime that they make a satisfying popping noise if done correctly, and even invites him to join her. Later at the beach, she goes around trying to step on and trample the crabs, laughing as if it were just child's play, showing an alarming fascination with it. She is also described to stomp on and tear out flowers for her own amusement, even though she mentions that she likes pretty things like flowers.

While not violent towards people, Hiyoko often shows similar mean behavior towards them as well. When Hajime Hinata refuses to squish ants with her, she immediately mocks him by grinning maliciously and calling him a wuss. She constantly judges others and patronizes them with rude insults, and sometimes with swearing, with Mikan Tsumiki and Kazuichi Soda being the most common, as well as the easiest victims. She often takes a jab at Akane Owari as well, though she, unlike Mikan or Kazuichi, doesn't cry or get frustrated but rather actually takes her pranks into consideration due to being very gullible. One time, when Hiyoko was stomping flowers, she was annoyed by Akane's questioning and claimed that "stomping and kicking your food before eating it gives you a lot of more protein". Then, Akane actually started eating the flowers, though she stated they didn't taste that good. Due to Akane's gullibleness, Hiyoko notes that she isn't that fun to bully. Out of everyone, she appears to dislike Mikan the most, and she has mentioned that it's because she suspects Mikan is only acting to get attention, which is partially true.

Hiyoko appears to feel a sense of superiority, claiming that other people exist to serve her and she doesn't need friends. Because of this, Hiyoko tends to manipulate others to do her bidding easily, like telling Akane to investigate the motel on the third island under her request. During her Free Time Events, she also orders Hajime around and wants him to be her slave. If she doesn't get what she wants or if other people actually talk back to her, she tends to cry crocodile tears loudly like a child, though her tears are sometimes genuine. It seems that she is somewhat spoiled due to being an heiress of her Clan, and as a result, she cannot do some things by herself, like tying her own kimono. In Danganronpa 3 Hope Arc, when her class fights against the Super High School Level Elite Task Force, Hiyoko appears to be the only one panicking and unable to defend herself, instead, shouting for help.

Due to coming from a traditionalist family, Hiyoko loves Japanese traditions and culture very much and tends to act condescending or even openly insulting towards other cultures. She considers many Japanese things "delicate, refined and high quality". She is especially fond of Japanese cuisine and candies, claiming that many foreign ones are too sugary and gross and the people eating them are gross as well. She has described some other countries as worthless and compared their people to stupid animals, thinking that Japan doesn't need to import from them. As a rarer good trait, however, Hiyoko is stated to be willing to protect old traditions in danger of disappearing and she thinks people should take good care of the things close to them. She has also stated that she knows her thinking is old-fashioned, but she doesn't intend to disagree with new directions, just to protect old ones that need to be protected.

Notably, Hiyoko is shown to act very different towards Mahiru Koizumi after becoming attached to her when she helped her take a shower and showed her how to tie her obi. Afterwards, she refers to Mahiru as "big sis" and acts very affectionate towards her, often happily wanting to hold her hand or hug her and even give her a kiss. Though reluctant and a bit embarrassed at first, Mahiru went along with it and became close to Hiyoko, and the two are seen almost always together. Hiyoko has stated that she likes Mahiru because she is normal and not weird like the other students. In Island Mode and her Free Time Events, she also grows fond and protective of Hajime as a big brother figure, because he reminds her of her father who is very dear to her.

Hiyoko has been through a lot in her childhood due to her status as an heiress, explaining some of her mean personality. With her overbearing grandmother, and jealous people playing lots of cruel and even potentially life-threatening tricks and threats on her, she became very distrustful of other people and seemingly developed her mean personality to defend herself. The only person she trusted and felt safe with was her father, who was different due to being related to the family only through marriage. Due to her past, Hiyoko absolutely hated being deceived, as shown in Chapter 2 when she felt annoyed and flustered by Monokuma's invitation that was actually made by Nagito Komaeda. In Chapter 3, she told directly to Hajime that she hated being deceived by others.

After the events of Chapter 2 and with Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu's apology and subsequent re-opening of his wounds, Hiyoko attempts to change herself for the better, trying her best to become less hostile and insulting, and understanding and accepting Fuyuhiko's apology for Mahiru's and Peko's death.

In Danganronpa 3, it's shown that her personality became slightly better during her school years, with her being occasionally nicer towards Mikan and even seeming secretly protective of her. This is most likely because she now had many friends she can trust, which is something she didn't have before.

Talents and 
Ultimate Traditional 
Hiyoko enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Traditional Dancer. She is the heiress of the Saionji Clan who is famous for its traditional Japanese dancing. As a promising young member of the world of traditional Japanese dance, she performs often, even abroad despite being so young. She is popular among young and men audiences, which is rare in Japanese dance industry. Crowds of audience members are drawn to her un-high school student-like appearance and cute voice. However, she stated that most people who aren't used to watching traditional dance performances often fall asleep easily.

In other 
Hiyoko's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Traditional Dancer
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「日本舞踊家」	Super High School Level Classical Dancer
Français Ultime Danseuse Folklorique	Ultimate Folk Dancer

Prior to the 
Hiyoko was born as the heiress to the Saionji Clan, the head of the school of traditional Japanese dance, and her traditionalist family was very overbearing due to this important role. Making things worse, her chosen bloodline was constantly targeted by conspiracies and assassinations due to jealous people. As a child, she constantly suffered cruel and even life-threatening pranks and threats, like having pins in her shoes, dead mice scattered all over her bed, and poisoned food.

She originally lived with her parents and she loved her father, who was different from her other family due to only being related to the family through marriage. He was very protective of Hiyoko, always staying by her side and happily watching her dancing. However, he had very low rank in the family, and Hiyoko wished she could protect him from becoming the head of the family.

Soon, Hiyoko was taken from her parents by her grandmother, who wanted to raise her strictly according to the family traditions for the sake of the Clan's pride. She didn't let Hiyoko even see her parents, supposedly considering his father a bad influence on her. While considering her a hag, Hiyoko was grateful for her grandmother for raising her and taking good care of her.

Because of Hiyoko's past, she considers herself part of the noble class and everybody else meager slaves. Hiyoko is said to be a rookie dancer, but it is said that her family has high expectations as she has done many shows overseas. She is also popular with younger audiences, though most of her fans are older males.

She previously attended Golden Light Girl's Institute before enrolling into Hope's Peak Academy. It's heavily implied that she never had any friends due to growing a mean and distrustful personality in order to defend herself in the past.

While in Hope's Peak Academy, Hiyoko befriended Mahiru, Ibuki, Mikan, and Sato. During their time together, they discovered a corpse in the music room. This was later revealed to be Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu's sister, who was murdered by Sato. A few days later, Sato was killed by Fuyuhiko. When Mikan, who was late, asks what's wrong, Hiyoko suggests her to enter the classroom. This part of Hiyoko's life was revealed in Monokuma's second motive, "Twilight Syndrome Murder Case".

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak 
Hiyoko was one of the few students that attended the class along with Mahiru, Fuyuhiko, and Sonia Nevermind. Hiyoko, who only behaves towards Mahiru, insulted Mikan shortly upon her late arrival in class. She arrived and tripped over her bag, causing her to fall into an erotic pose. Hiyoko said seconds after Mikan tripping, she wanted to "break" her new homeroom teacher Chisa Yukizome from every aspect.

When Chisa asked her about her classmates, Hiyoko said that she didn't know or even care about them. Everyone is free to skip the class as long as they keep sharpen their skills and pass the practical exam. Furious because of her students' ignorance, Chisa called all of them as "rotten oranges", making Hiyoko upset and forced them to search for their classmates. Their little adventure began there.

First, the group needs to retrieve Nekomaru Nidai from the boys' toilet. Nekomaru accidentally exploded the toilet, making Hiyoko and Mahiru who stayed outside threw to the air due to the massive explosion. After retrieved Teruteru Hanamura, Chisa had him cook a roast with Hiyoko, Mahiru, and Fuyuhiko tending the fire, in hopes of drawing out Akane Owari and eventually succeed to capture her.

After easily retrieved Kazuichi and Gundham Tanaka, Hiyoko and the others visited the Light School Music Club room. Inside, they listened to Ibuki sang a heavy rock song which automatically hated by everyone with Hiyoko and Chisa as an exception. Hiyoko started to weary inside the dojo where Peko Pekoyama practiced and didn't want to clean the classroom when almost all of them gathered in the class.

Chisa returned with Chiaki Nanami and the Ultimate Imposter after Hiyoko and the others cleaned the classroom. When the students once again bring up that they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded Hiyoko and the others that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
Hiyoko and her classmates took cover on the side of the class, didn't want to get involved in Nekomaru and Akane's deadly training session that almost destroyed the entire classroom. Later, she played games that Chiaki brought with the rest of her friends. Hiyoko, Chisa, Chiaki, and Ibuki played a racing game together. Hiyoko's true intention was not to become a winner, but to irritate Ibuki by knocking out her car twice for her amusement and fun.

Later, Hiyoko went to the kitchen and helped Teruteru cooked nikujaga. It was revealed that she stole one of Teruteru and Seiko Kimura's invention called as Sexy Sexy Soup filled with aphrodisiacs to "experiment". Her plan to make everyone drowned in their lusts succeed, even making Teruteru inraged and about to molest her. Chiaki who managed to fight back the effect of the food delivered a finishing uppercut to Teruteru was able to protect Hiyoko at the last minute. Hiyoko then visited everyone in the nurse's office.

In the next day, Hiyoko agreed with Chisa to elect Chiaki as their class representative.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, Hiyoko and her classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building. Later that day, Hiyoko was with her classmates during the break time in the school's park. She was playing with rabbits alongside Ibuki.

Several days later, Hiyoko comforted Mahiru who was crying on her chest after she heard the news about Sato's death.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
Hiyoko looked at her classmates in worried as they still showing no sign of their usual lively and cheerful class when Chisa announced that they will start the annual practical exam on the next day. The deaths of Natsumi Kuzuryu and Sato affected their morale greatly.

At the end of the episode, Hiyoko and her classmates sadly bid their farewell to their beloved teacher Chisa as she was transferred to the Reserve Course after the bomb incident involving one of Hiyoko's classmate, Nagito.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
During Chisa's absence, Hiyoko has a growth spurt. When Chisa returns, she is shocked by how much Hiyoko has grown. Hiyoko says her wish came true, and that she can now bend Mikan's bones in any direction she wants. Chisa comments that Hiyoko's personality hasn't changed.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
As they are moving to a new classroom, Hiyoko picked up the cage that has Gundham's rabbit in it. Gundham told Hiyoko to let the hamster go, but Hiyoko ignored his warning and snickered that the hamster can't do anything to her. Suddenly, the hamster poops on Hiyoko through the cage, causing Hiyoko to toss the cage as she screamed in disgust.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
Hiyoko placed a white flower on top on Nagito's desk and explained that it's the "first anniversary of Nagito's death" when she was questioned by Mahiru. Annoyed the latter reminded Hiyoko that Nagito has merely been suspended, causing a conversation about him amongst Hiyoko and her classmates. Suddenly noticing Mikan's absence, Hiyoko asked where she was and was told that Mikan had gone somewhere with the Ultimate Imposter.

Later, Hiyoko and the rest of her class watched from the classroom's window as the Reserve Course students attempted to break into the main course building.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by 
Hiyoko, Chiaki and Ibuki watch on as the Reserve Course parade continues to increase. When Nekomaru questions if Mikan missed school again, Hiyoko answers him by suggesting the protests scared her off. Hiyoko expresses her disappointment when Nagito is the one to return to class and not Mikan when Nagito tells everyone that he's brought back souvenirs Hiyoko interrupts him saying now is not the time. As Nagito is yet to see her growth spurt, he questions who Hiyoko actually is. When he explains that he noticed Mikan at the West District of the school grounds, Hiyoko and the rest of the class proceed to look for her although to Hiyoko's protest. She searches for her in a group, with Teruteru, Fuyuhiko, and Mahiru, calling for her in an intimidating way as a method to get Mikan to come out before getting embarrassed and uncomfortable at Teruteru's conversion of the sentence.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't 
Hiyoko and the rest of the class assume what Nagito told them was false information after a failed attempt to find Mikan. Chiaki returns to the classroom with an unconscious Nagito and explains to the class that Chisa is in trouble, they all become worried but agree to help. Hiyoko looks forward to making Junko's teeth chatter although Nagito warns her and the rest of the class that the risk is high and there is a possibility of them dying, to which she considers these concerns before Chiaki convinces her otherwise.

She and the rest of the class are shocked to discover the Ultimate Imposter's true identity but come to accept it quickly.

Upon leaving the Main Course building, the Reserve Course students notice Hiyoko and the class and seek to take them on in a battle to make placements available on the Main Course. Nekomaru and Gundham fend them off and the class continues to Junko's lair, reaching the stairway and making their way underground.

Episode 10 - Smile at Hope in the Name of 
Hiyoko and the others continue their approach, attempting to find and rescue Chiaki and Chisa. In the middle of this, they find Nekomaru and Gundham, and the two rejoin the group. Later on, they reach a large red door. Mikan presses a button to open the door and the class finds themselves in what seems to be the room that would be used for Class Trials later on.

The monitors on the walls of the room switch on and reveal Junko on the screen. After a bit of exposition, Junko starts Chiaki Nanami's Punishment while the rest of the class is forced to watch it. Everyone tries desperately to take their eyes off the screen but is unable to.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Hiyoko, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. The class, besides Nagito and Mikan, is devastated by this, and is brainwashed into despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Hiyoko and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher and started reading a letter she prepared. Hiyoko and the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa started to cry. The patterned swirled return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. Hiyoko expressed she will use her dance to 'spread joy'. Chisa then explains that they'll 'officially' have to die at the classroom to be taken off the list of protected students, Hiyoko commenting that she doesn't have to keep repeating herself revealed the class has discussed this plan prior. After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activated a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Hiyoko and her class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak's destruction.

Chisa's narration later reveals Hiyoko and the rest of her class helped to infect the world with despair.

During the 
The members of Ultimate Despair did all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world.

After the death of the True Ultimate Despair Junko, the Remnants of Despair including Hiyoko agreed to an insane plan to have AI Junko take over their bodies, so they could resurrect their leader.

The Remnants of Despair later found by Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by AI Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
As a member of Ultimate Despair, seen in the flashback, Hiyoko and Ibuki held a concert together during the Tragedy to rally the brainwashed army's spirit.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Hiyoko can first be found hanging around at the Usami Corrals. Hajime notes that she was poking at the ground repeatedly for some reason, which later turns out to be that she was crushing (popping) ants. She invited Hajime to join her, but he declined, which makes Hiyoko call him a wuss.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
Later, Mikan and Kazuichi quickly turn into easy targets for Hiyoko's cruelty. She also bought gummies from the supermarket. Otherwise, she does not have much of a significant role in either Prologue or Chapter 1.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
At the beginning of Chapter 2, after everybody gathered at the Restaurant, Akane suddenly speaks up and tells everyone that she smells something bad. Although everyone was confused at first, the smell turns out to be coming from Hiyoko, who becomes frustrated and begins crying. She admits that she hasn't been able to take a shower for the few days, due to the fact that she is unable to properly wear her kimono by herself and that it isn't her fault that she smells.

While most of the others go off to investigate a new island, Mahiru offers to help Hiyoko, who immediately happily drags Mahiru off to take a shower with her. If Hajime has a certain item with him at this point, he will go to peek at them taking a shower together. For the rest of the chapter, Hiyoko has a close bond with Mahiru, often hanging around her and referring to her as 'big sis'.

Later, after Mahiru's murder in the Beach House, Hiyoko acts suspicious and runs away when Nagito tries to question her about whether Mahiru tried to talk to her before her death. It's revealed that Hiyoko was one of the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case characters, labeled as Girl B.

During the Class Trial, Hiyoko is initially heavily suspected as to being the culprit. She immediately denies all the accusations in tears, yelling that there would be no way that she would've killed her big sis. Thanks to Hajime and Chiaki Nanami's efforts, it is determined that all the evidence that seemingly pointed to Hiyoko were actually traps set by the true culprit to frame her instead.

Hiyoko admits that she was actually the first witness to the body of Mahiru, and ran out the Beach House in panic. Thanks to a multitude of testimonies from Hiyoko, Kazuichi, and Chiaki, Hajime arrives at the conclusion that Peko was the murderer. She is found guilty and executed, with Fuyuhiko heavily injured in the process.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
Koizumimemorial
Koizumi's memorial made by Hiyoko.

Later, in the beginning of Chapter 3 after Fuyuhiko's injury, Hiyoko snuck into the Restaurant before anybody else in the morning and made a sinister-looking memorial to honor Mahiru, to which she had thought that everyone would be happy over.

However, Hiyoko's expectations were ruined when everybody, not knowing Hiyoko had made it, commented that the memorial was creepy and unsettling to the point that even Gundham thought it was evil. Not wanting everyone to know that she had made that 'creepy and unsettling' memorial, she goes with the flow and comments about how Mahiru wouldn't like it at all as well until Chiaki points out that the memorial was surely made with an honest intention.

Hiyoko begins crying and admits she made the memorial because she thought Mahiru would be lonely and apologizes for how it looks since the only thing she can do is dance. Hiyoko then asks for them to not burn it, to which the others agree, keeping it up for Hiyoko and Mahiru's sake.

When Fuyuhiko comes back to the group, Hiyoko openly shows her distrust and dislike of him, as he is essentially the cause of Mahiru's death. Despite that, after Fuyuhiko apologizes and bows down to the floor at the expense of re-opening his wounds, and later seeing him earnestly trying to change for the better, she forgives him and tries to change herself for the better as well by trying to insult others less.

After Monokuma's announcement of Chapter 3's motive, the Despair Disease, is given, Hiyoko along with Kazuichi, Gundham, Sonia, and Chiaki move to the Motel near the Hospital so they can keep in touch with those staying at the Hospital.

Hiyoko, however, locks herself into her own Motel room and initially doesn't come outside because she doesn't want to contract the Despair Disease. Later, Sonia finds her door half-open and goes to check up on Hiyoko, who she finds with her clothes half-on and crying. She attempted to wash herself, and put her clothes back on the way Mahiru had taught her properly how to do, and yet she wasn't able to, causing her frustration.

At Sonia's recommendation, Hiyoko went to the Live house and planned to use the full-body mirror there to fix her kimono. However, she witnessed Mikan about to murder Ibuki on the way and she was murdered by Mikan with a slit to the throat to keep her from talking.

Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
Much later, Hajime finds a news article in the glitch version of Hope's Peak Academy that shows an older, much more mature-looking Hiyoko, showing that their time spent on 'Jabberwock Island' was actually a memory of their time when they first came to Hope's Peak while in reality, their bodies had matured around 2–3 years (approximately).

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
Currently, Hiyoko is most likely comatose, just like most of her classmates. The survivor of the Killing Game is waiting for her and the rest of their classmates to wake up.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Main article: Hiyoko Saionji (Illusion)
Real-
After Nagito awoke from the simulation, he learned that all of his friends, including Hiyoko, were alive and awake from the Neo World Program. He boarded the boat with the rest of Class 77-B and they all then headed for the Future Foundation Headquarters.

Hope Arc- The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Hiyoko returned in Hope Arc alongside the rest of the Class 77-B, who had been resurrected by Izuru Kamukura although Izuru was now combined with the personality and memories of Hajime. They arrived at the island where the Future Foundation's off-shore facility was located, having left from Jabberwock Island and proceeded by rescuing Byakuya Togami and Yasuhiro Hagakure from being trapped under rubble, they then began their fight against Ryota's brainwashed rescue squad troops, including the Former Super High School Level Elite Task Force.

Venturing into the underwater facility beneath the main building, Hiyoko became threatened by the former Ultimate Nailist, throwing continuous swipes at Hiyoko, prompting her to swiftly dodge. She is saved by Mikan who had procured a giant syringe and used it to knock the squad member unconscious. Despite showing her usual abrasive attitude toward Mikan, Hiyoko reluctantly offered her gratitude for the timely assistance, bringing Mikan to joyful tears.

Later, Hiyoko helped convince Ryota to abandon his plan to brainwash the world with hope. When Hajime began persuading him to join them in atonement, Hiyoko happily accepting Ryota. Upon leaving the broadcasting studio, Nagito held Makoto Naegi's hand and began to ramble about their comparable talents before being swiftly carried away by Nekomaru and Akane for speaking too long, Hiyoko stating Nagito had become even creepier than before.

Shortly afterword, she and the other Former Remnants of Despair shoulder the blame for the Final Killing Game in a broadcast to the Future Foundation, presenting themselves in their despair persona and relieving the organization of any wrongdoing.

With the battle won, Hiyoko and the Class 77-B return to Jabberwock Island by boat. She is last seen with Mahiru, standing over Mikan who had once again fallen to the floor.


Family:
Her 
Hiyoko claims that her father always sticks to her side at all times whenever she gets upset because of her mother. She claims that she likes her dad since he is just married to the family. When Hajime promised Hiyoko that he would watch Hiyoko perform her dance, she states how he reminds her a lot of her dad saying the exact thing to Hiyoko and that Hajime really resembles as him a lot which shows that Hiyoko's bond with her father is very strong and important to her.

In the Island Mode, she claims that her dad is the only one who is always by her side. Hiyoko said that she always felt calm whenever her dad is near her, unlike Hiyoko's relationship with her mom and her grandma. She wants to be able to protect her dad and Hajime if she stopped crying which can be proven that her dad is the closest family member to her.

Her 
Hiyoko was separated from her father and has been taken care by her grandmother since her childhood. Even though she dislikes her separation from her father, she claims that her grandmother took care of her well.

Class 77-B:
Mahiru 
Hiyoko's friendship with Mahiru blooms in Chapter 2, when Mahiru was the only one who offered to help Hiyoko wear her kimono properly and helps her take a shower. Since then, Hiyoko regularly referred to Mahiru as her 'big sis' or 'big sister Mahiru'. Hiyoko states that Mahiru is the only person who isn't weird and acts very casual.

Although Mahiru was initially reluctant to be dragged around by Hiyoko, it is evident that Hiyoko greatly looked up to the other as she was devastated by Mahiru's death, and later made her a memorial. Even after the events of Chapter 2, Hiyoko tries to take a shower and put her clothes back on by herself since Mahiru had taught her with so much patience, and was extremely frustrated to find out that she couldn't.

Later, it's revealed that Mahiru was one of Hiyoko's best friends during her time at Hope's Peak Academy as well, calling her "Big Sis" and stating she loves her. Despite their close friendship, Hiyoko involved Mahiru in her mischievous plot which included aphrodisiacs. Hiyoko later comforted Mahiru after Sato's death.

Upon awakening from their coma, Hiyoko is seen happily chatting with Mahiru and celebrating with her, Mikan, and Ibuki on the ship after the battle has ended.

In Danganronpa 3 relationship chart, Hiyoko tells Mahiru that she loves her, and Mahiru tells Hiyoko that she loves her too.

According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Hiyoko's school memories with Mahiru are very precious to her, explaining why she became close with Mahiru even after losing her memories in the Neo World Program.

In the non-canon "Danganronpa V3" bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Hiyoko stated she feels lonely when Mahiru isn't around and that looking at her photos makes her feel better.

Mikan 
Hiyoko is quick to latch onto Mikan, but not in a friendly way. Mikan quickly became a common target for her bullying because of her timid nature. Hiyoko constantly makes rude remarks towards Mikan, such as calling her a "filthy pig" or "ugly bitch". Despite Hiyoko's bickering and attitude, Mikan still cares for Hiyoko and states about her health which however Hiyoko refuses to listen to Mikan, like in Chapter 1 when Mikan tries to tell Hiyoko that eating sweets for breakfast is bad for health. It is indicated by Hiyoko's own words that she suspects many parts of Mikan's behavior (such as her clumsiness and poses) are an act, causing her to strongly dislike her as a result.

Despite Hiyoko's treatment towards Mikan, it's notable that Mikan's motive for murdering Hiyoko had nothing to do with that and she merely murdered Hiyoko because she was a witness to Ibuki's murder.

As revealed in Chapter 2 of Danganronpa 2, Hiyoko and Mikan were in the same group of friends and knew each other very well prior to the Tragedy. Despite this, Hiyoko was just as mean to Mikan and says that her wish of being able to twist Mikan's bones in different directions would finally come true when she hit her growth spurt. In the Danganronpa 3 relationship chart, Hiyoko calls Mikan "pig puke", which Mikan constantly apologizes for. However, Hiyoko reluctantly admits that Mikan's talent is extremely useful in situations where medical attention is needed.

Despite bullying Mikan, Hiyoko grows fond of her during their high school years together, although naturally, she prefers to keep this part of her hidden. A notable example is a scene when Mikan was missing and everyone thought that the person who entered the room was Mikan (though it was quickly revealed to be Nagito). Instantly, Hiyoko cheerfully greeted him with "hey, girl" and appeared very relieved when she thought that Mikan was confirmed to be safe. Furthermore, Kazutaka Kodaka has indicated that their illusion counterparts' relationship in Super Danganronpa 2.5 may have some reflection to their real relationship, showing that Hiyoko has grown protective of Mikan and doesn't want anyone else to bully her.

In Danganronpa 3 manga, it was revealed that Hiyoko accidentally hurt Mikan when she and Mahiru ran into her while walking to school. Losing focus as she was too busy bullying Mikan, Hiyoko tripped over her sandals and scraped her knee, accidentally tripping and wounding Mikan, who was trying to clean Hiyoko's wounds, as well. After seeing what she had done, Hiyoko ran away in shame, forcing Mahiru to go after her. When Mikan tended to Hiyoko's wounds in the nurse's office, Hiyoko tearfully claimed responsibility for the incident and offered to clean Mikan's wounds in return, an act which delighted the Ultimate Nurse. The two were later seen walking out of the office holding hands, showing that Hiyoko did think of Mikan as a friend.

After Hiyoko and the other Remnants of Despair awaken from the Neo World Program, Mikan makes it up to Hiyoko by saving her from a brainwashed man. Hiyoko insults her at first for not coming earlier, but then, although somewhat reluctant, sincerely thanks Mikan, causing her to cry tears of joy. Later the two, along with Mahiru and Ibuki, is seen celebrating together on the ship, indicating that Hiyoko finally accepted Mikan as a friend.

In the non-canon "Danganronpa V3" bonus mode, Hiyoko decided to meet up with Mikan in the nurse office since she was in a bad mood. Mikan was surprised and curious how Hiyoko would meet up with her. Mikan then smiled that Hiyoko came to be friends with her and chat along which Hiyoko decline and telling her to not smile. In the end, Hiyoko states how she forgot about her nervousness when she talked with Mikan.

Ibuki 
Hiyoko appears to think of Ibuki as a friend, despite the fact that she often insults her. She joins her improvised band as a dancer. During the events of chapter 2, it is revealed that both Ibuki and her, along with Mahiru, Mikan, and Sato, were best friends at Hope's Peak Academy.

Ibuki appears to like her as well, though she is amazed by how many tears Hiyoko can cry. They seem to have a similar taste in music, which is revealed in Ibuki's "Welcome Back" party for Fuyuhiko. Ibuki played one of her songs, but Hiyoko was the only one who enjoyed it. Hiyoko states how amazing Ibuki's ears can be and feels astounded by her skills. During the Killing School Trip, Hiyoko and Ibuki were murdered together by Mikan, but despite this, the three, along with Mahiru, are seen celebrating together on the ship after awakening from their comatose states.

When Hiyoko and Ibuki were still members of Ultimate Despair, they often performed on the stage together, rallying the brainwashed army with Monokuma helmets.

Fuyuhiko 
Besides the other people that were fallen victims of her bullying, Fuyuhiko was also targeted by Hiyoko. She often called him a coward yakuza or an ugly baby-faced yakuza. Later at the end of chapter 2, Hiyoko developed a feeling of hatred for him.

Hiyoko blamed Mahiru's and Peko's deaths on him and Hiyoko still refused to apologize to Fuyuhiko after he lost his right eye. Even when Fuyuhiko gave her and the others an awkward greeting she still refused to apologize to him, and even cornered him, which caused him to jab his own stomach to show his guilt to her. Within some time, Hiyoko agreed, understood, forgave him, and chose to cooperate and change for the greater good.

Sonia 
Hiyoko is one of the people that Sonia tends to trust and invites in some events. Sonia even shows concern towards Hiyoko as when Hiyoko struggles putting on her kimono in Chapter 3. Sonia was devastated how Hiyoko, Ibuki, and Mikan are dead since they all died in the same case and states how she remembers Hiyoko dance while mourning for Mahiru. In turn, Hiyoko states to Hajime that she feels irritated how some are over-pampering Sonia like crazy including Kaizuichi. Hajime states that Hiyoko might have been jealous which Hiyoko denies and holds hatred towards Sonia in Hiyoko's last Free Time Events.

Teruteru 
During their time at Hope's Peak Academy, Hiyoko appeared to enjoy messing with Teruteru, Hiyoko soon stopped after Teruteru almost molested her and seemed to ignore him altogether.

On the island, Hiyoko was very grossed out by Teruteru's perverted nature, and she bullied him. However, like most of her classmates, she enjoys Teruteru's cooking.

Kazuichi 
Hiyoko enjoys bullying Kazuichi, teasing him in a similar manner to Mikan (although not as much). She does not hesitate to insult him when given the chance, other times, she does so for no reason at all. She called him useless unlike she did to Mikan. She even made threats and wanting to see him get hurt. Hiyoko called him a pathetic annoying virgin during her last Free Time Events and explained to Hajime how annoying he can be whenever Sonia is around.

Akane 
When it comes to Akane, Hiyoko tends to take her pranks into consideration. She can easily persuade the former to do her bidding, and one time, even reveals to Hajime that she had gotten Akane to consume flowers that she had stomped on.

Reserve Course Students:

Prior to The Tragedy, Sato was one of Hiyoko's best friends. They, along with Mikan, Ibuki, and Mahiru spent most of their time together prior to Sato's murder.

Hajime 
Despite Hiyoko's attitude towards Hajime, Hiyoko appears to like Hajime more than most of the others, calling him Big Bro. He apparently reminds her of her father. She does think that Hajime is bland and a wimp at times. She also states that Hajime is a kind-hearted person which is a good thing. After receiving the 6th page of her report card, Hiyoko states that Hajime's kindness is probably a good trait.

During their free-time together, Hiyoko opens up about her love for the Japanese culture. She expresses knowledge of her interest in the Japanese culture that impresses Hajime until she adds unnecessary, general insults.

Future Foundation Members:

Hiyoko often likes to tease Usami while Monomi tries to become friends with her and the rest of the characters. Hiyoko states how Monomi always acted like a party pooper and thinks she is annoying while Usami feels upset. Hiyoko continues to tease and bully Usami and treats her like a plush toy. Hiyoko despite the idea of letting Usami participate in the events that all of their classmates attended.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Hiyoko Saionji
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Hiyoko in order to learn more about her. If he gives Hiyoko a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Hiyoko will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Hiyoko's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Hiyoko's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567X
Hiyoko Saionji's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Crumpets	Confeito	Candy
To use his daughter	To protect his daughter	To kill his daughter
Akane	Sonia	Chiaki
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 035 Cloth Wrap Backpack DR2 Present 038 Biggest Fantom DR2 Present 086 Century Potpourri DR2 Present 077 Paper 10th Act Verse DR2 Present 102 Rose In Vitro

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Hiyoko grants the following skills:

Pivot Turn	Erases all dummy panels.
Effective during Closing Argument.	5 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Hiyoko Saionji

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"I'm Hiyoko Saionji."
Chapter 1:

"There's nowhere *to* run anyway. What a weirdo."
"Kyahaha! Even though you look all flashy, you're actually a big coward! Are you gonna be okaaaay? People like you are usually the first victim, you know?"
"It's obvious from your flashy clothes that you just wanna stand out because you're actually a loser. Hehe... It must be hard to make your living in the Lame-Ass Loser Industry."
"Together? That's not gonna happen 'cause you're so *disgusting*. Do yourself a favor and stay away from mirrors. You'll be grossed out by what you see."
"Seriously? Did you even listen to what I said? It doesn't matter if you can "abide" by this or not... We gotta do this to survive, right? Then we have no choice but to do it."
"If you wanna ask, why don't you show it with your attitude...?"
"It's a good thing your ears are awesome because your face, style, figure, and personality totally suck."
Chapter 2:

"Huuuh? Is it alright to defend a killer? Are you trying to justify murder? Then you gotta hate him more than ever. You gotta hate him from the bottom of your heart. He's a stupid piece of trash, bastard who committed the lowest crime possible. He deserved to get killed. In fact, I'm rather relieved he was executed. If I could have, I would have totally spat on him too."
"I wanna play games about riddle-solving professors or collecting cute monsters."
"When I'm with you guys...I feel like I'm gonna become a weirdo too."
"Just because it's candy doesn't mean you should make fun of it."
"Ha! A nasty, trashy, pigshit like you doesn't have any privacy rights!"
"Short and foulmouthed...? That's like the complete opposite of me!"
"No one would kill a nice person like Mahiru besides a piece of shit, menace to society like Fuyuhiko! Girl E and Mahiru were killed by that guy!"
"What are you even saying, you nasty, toilet-clogging bitch!?"
"What are you even saying, you four-eyed troll!?"
"I don't have such ugly footprints! They're probably Mikan's based on how ugly they are!"
"People who call other people liars...are usually liars themselves. If you say I'm lying, prove it! Can you even prove that I'm lying!? Kyahahahahaha! There's no way a bunch of worthless idiots like you guys would be able to do that!"
"Saying I met up with her when I never even saw her... Is this a panel of idiots?"
"There's no way I'd wear such a childish mask! Is your brain fried or something!?"
"Y-You're a midget too, you know! You're the one who worries about never getting taller!"
"Ugh... Dammit... Who would set a trap like this...? I'll get my revenge! I'm gonna bop you on the head with all my might!"
"See...I already told you... There's no way I'd kill Mahiru... Cause...Mahiru taught me how to wear a kimono...and she was very, very kind... There's no way I would kill a nice person like her! Why wouldn't you believe me earlier!? You guys are stupid! Stupid! Stupid! Stupid!"
As Girl B:

"Heeey, don't go taking photos without permission! People might mistake us for good friends!" (to Girl D)
"Kehe...you should be super careful, Girl A. A chubby weakling like you makes the perfect prey..."
Chapter 3:

"I don't know who did it but they must've spent so much time and effort doing their best to make it. Kyahahaha! Mahiru's gonna be happy, too! I don't know who did this but we should be grateful to them! Riiiiiiight?"
"M-Mahiru...was really..really nice... She politely...taught me...how to tie my kimono... Mahiru's...probably lonely by herself... So I wanted to tell her...that she's not alone...even if she's in heaven... I-I did...wanna...make it look better...but... But...unless I'm dancing...I'm so clumsy at whatever I do... Waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah! I'm sorrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrryyyyyy!"
"You're probably too vulgar to get this, but there's a saying: "Praise a fool, and you may make him useful." Akane was checking out the inside. After I gave her a little praise, she got really excited about it. A dumbass like her is pretty rare, so we gotta make sure she's treated well."
"Kyahaha! I don't dislike anyone who knows their place!"
"Huh? SO what if we're all here? You better not say we're "friends" or something. There's no way a killer like him will ever be our friend!"
"Hey, don't mess with me! Do you really think we're gonna forgive you if you just drop to your knees and cry!? Do you really think a half-assed apology will make us forget what you've done!?"
"Yeah, that's right. That's why we're never going to believe in you. Get it? This doesn't mean we've made up or anything. I'm only cooperating with you until we get off this island. Just remember...if anything happens, you're the first one who's gonna get cut off."
"Hey, can you stop yelling? Screaming won't help, you know!" This isn't cause! This is what happens when we let our guard down! All this talk about everyone getting along... We were just fooling ourselves. We were...just pretending we understood the situation we're in... Teamwork, friendship, cooperation... Nothing matters... The stupid ones will just be killed one after another... It won't be a mystery when you're eventually betrayed... That's...the "reality" here."
"If it really did have meaning, Nekomaru wouldn't have ended up like that! He ended up like that...because of his weird feelings of friendship... ...Hey, you understand too, right? When the stupid ones try to act on their own, it makes trouble for everyone else. So can you please do not involve me? I don't wanna die in a meaningless death."
"Hey... It's definitely best if we keep Nagito tied up. No, not just tied up... I won't be satisfied until I peel the skin off his face and expose the meat so we can't identify him anymore..."
"I don't know... I...I hate being lied to... I won't satisfied untill all his joints are bent at awkward angles!"
"I...I hate being lied to... It's definitely best if we keep him tied up... Or instead of tying him up, why don't we bury him from his neck down in the middle of the ranch? A guy like him...should get stepped on by Mr. Cow until he dies..."
"Did they go crazy or something? It wouldn't be strange to go crazy in a situation like this."
"Hey, is this stupid conversation going to last much longer? Shouldn't we be seriously thinking about what we need to do from now on and stuff?"
"That disease sure looks dangerous. Nagito, Akane, and Ibuki aren't acting normal... if it spreads to anyone else, a killing is bound to happen. But those guys aren't being considerate. I want them to at least have the decency to consider committing suicide before they start bothering us. I know...it can't be that easy... So it's important to make sure we don't end up catching the disease. If you can't cure it, the only option is to stop it from spreading... Even a preschooler knows that. Hey, if everyone catches the Despair Disease, we won't be able to do anything about it anymore, you know?"
"Soooo I'll leave the rest to you. Contact me if something happens."
"Bye-byeeeeee! Do your best and try to stay alive!"
"B-Because...Mahiru taught me. That's why...I can do it on my own."
Chapter 5:

"mrmrmraaaaants-o,,o,,o'(~=squish------~;31-o,,o,,o'mi$s[@Ma9hiru8823" (Hiyoko's cottage post-fifth trial)

Saionji (西園寺) translates to "Western garden temple" while Hiyoko (日寄子) means "Child who brings forth day".
Hiyoko (as 雛) is also the Japanese word for "chick" (as in a baby bird). This association connected to Hiyoko's name matches her childish, innocent-looking appearance, as well as her hair color. She also has a chick print on her kimono, located just above its sash.
Coincidentally, there is also a brand of bean jam-filled steamed buns called Hiyoko Sweets. Whether this was intentionally reflecting Hiyoko's sweet tooth or not is unknown.
In original Japanese, she is known as the Super High School Level 'buyō-ka', or a master of buyō dance, which is a traditional form of Japanese art that combines the act of moving to a rhythm and dancing.
Hiyoko has a bit of a sweet tooth; she mostly eats gummies. However, she never eats yellow gummies, due to her dislike of sour food.
In her report card, it states she eats flower candies and Japanese sweets.
Hiyoko possibly enjoys playing Professor Layton, a mystery-solving game, and Pokémon, a game where you collect monsters called "Pokémon", because when Monokuma was introducing the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case, Hiyoko states that she wants to play games about "riddle solving professors" (Professor Layton), and "collecting cute monsters" (Pokémon).
Hiyoko's Japanese voice actress, Suzuko Mimori, also voiced Kiriko Nishizawa in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc.
Hiyoko's English voice actress, Kira Buckland, also voices Kirumi Tojo in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ibuki is a young woman in her early twenties, around 22 at youngest. Her virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as her 17 year old self.

She is a pale girl with pink eyes. She has long multi-coloured hair consisting of black, pink, blue and white, some of which is tied into two oni horns on the top of her head.

Ibuki has a style of clothing that is very unlike what one would think a Light Music Club member would wear. She wears a sailor uniform with a black pleated skirt and ripped thigh highs (the right one is pink and the left one is blue). Both of her ears have six needle earrings and an earlobe gauge. She also has three piercings under the left side of lip and black nail polish. She wears a necklace, a black scrunchy with a stitch-like pattern on right wrist, a black and pink glove-like sleeve on her on her left upper arm with a silver bracelet and three silver rings on her left hand. Her shoes are white, with blue shoelaces on the right one and pink shoelaces on the left one.

In Danganronpa 2, Ibuki has a scar tattoo with stitches on her left thigh. In Danganronpa 3, this same tattoo appears on her right thigh.

As a member of Ultimate Despair, Ibuki has the same hair, but her clothes are different with more black. She appears to have a spiked collar and more piercings.

When enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy, she wore a white button up dress shirt with a pink tie that has light pink-colored x's, a black pleated skirt with a thin belt, a blue scrunchy on her right wrist; a yellow spiked bracelet on her left, two black rings on her left hand and black thigh highs with white skeletal markings on them. She also wore the same necklace and shoes.



Personality 
At first, Ibuki is a bit shocking in bold and unique personality and appearance. She is one of the most upbeat people out of her classmates. She is very energetic and loves to talk, though she almost always ends up going off on bizarre, unrelated tangents. She forgets things quite quickly, so she tries to write memos to help her remember.

Ibuki is very quirky as she loves to do all sort of bizarre things and she dislikes "dull" things, like reading and studying. She has a habit of breaking the fourth wall. When she gets upset, Ibuki seems to have a bit of a verbal tic: saying things twice. She also tends to scream or froth at the mouth when she panics. She seems to really enjoy panicking when there is no real danger, like when she's watching horror movies or going into the haunted house.

In the official artbook, it's stated that Ibuki adores cute girls, and she's often seen admiring the other girls during the game. She can act flirty towards both boys and girls, though she often appears to be just joking. In the Island Mode, during a more serious conversation, she states that "there are more important things in this world than a temporary physical relationship" - she appears to have very little interest in having a lover. Instead, it's implied that she's much more interested in having a deep platonic relationship with someone she considers her soulmate ("band member", as she puts it). She also implies that she has felt despair around other people, but finding her "destined one" would make sure that she would never feel despair again.

Despite her general quirkiness, Ibuki can be a startlingly wise and contemplative person, as in her last Free Time Events she gives Hajime Hinata advice about being himself. Though she may appear a bit insensitive at times, she is actually a very caring friend, as she spends her whole Free Time Events trying to help Hajime with his memories and sense of identity. She seems to have strong respect for individuality, which is contrasted with her Gullible Disease which makes her for the most part unable to act on her own will and also tones down her unique quirks.

Ibuki often refers to herself in third person and calls everyone by their first name with "-chan" honorific in the original Japanese release. Ibuki also speaks in the third person in the English version, but not as frequently.

Talent 
Ultimate Musician 
Before attending Hope's Peak Academy, Ibuki joined a Light Music Club where one of her songs became charted as one of the highest-grossing singles in the country. Later on she quit club for creative difference in which she was scouted by a talent scout, but she refused to play traditional pop music and play heavy metal genre instead. It is stated that she can even play bass and drums on her guitar simultaneously. She is also a skilled song writer, writing her own single repertoire and even her hit single. Whenever someone listens to her genre she played for the first time, they might get shocked and/or even knock unconscious due to its sheer pain when played matching her eccentric and upbeat personality.

In other 
Ibuki's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Musician
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「軽音楽部」	Super High School Level Light Music Club Member
Français Ultime Joueuse de Musique Légère	Ultimate Light Music Player
Abilities 
Costume Maker 
Ibuki is able to make her own stage costume. She states that sewing is a minor necessity if someone joins a band. She puts her heart into making her clothes so they are not just a mere commercial product. In result, everything that she wears looks really unique and charming.

Enhanced Hearing 
Befitting the Ultimate Muscian Ibuki has super powerful hearing. Even in complete darkness she is able to tell whose voices belong to who and in which order the people spoke.

History 
Prior to the Tragedy 
There isn't much known about Ibuki's childhood, but she almost died as a kid, when she shook a coconut tree and three coconuts fell on her head. When she was younger, she ended up on an illegal fishing boat and almost ended up in another country.

As a teen, Ibuki attended a girls-only high school called Shiba Academy and joined a light music club named "Black Cherry". They had a rival named "Summer Tree", which was a boy band. Ibuki wrote the songs she sings and her Hit single with her band is called After School Poyoyon Hour.

Ibuki later quit the club due to creative differences - when a talent scout was going to be watching one of their performances, Ibuki refused to play more traditionally appealing pop music, as she was much more into the heavy metal genre.

Ibuki later enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Musician, in Class 77-B. She befriended Mikan Tsumiki, Hiyoko Saionji, Mahiru Koizumi, and Sato. During their time together, they discovered a corpse in the music room. This was later revealed to be Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu's sister, who was murdered by Sato. A few days later, Sato was killed by Fuyuhiko. This scared Ibuki, who thought they were cursed. This part of her life was revealed in Monokuma's second motive, "Twilight Syndrome Murder Case".

At some point after this, Ibuki joined the Ultimate Despair group that was founded by Junko.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak Academy 
Inside the Music Room, Ibuki performed her heavy metal song with her guitar which can also become a flamethrower, grilling meats in front of her. Even though most of her classmates can't stand with her performance, her homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome enjoyed it.

Ibuki and the rest of her classmates asked by Chisa to clean the classroom while she off to retrieve two remaining students. After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that Ibuki and the others had waited and that the classroom was clean. When the students once again bring up that they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 2 - My Impurest Heart for You 
Although Ibuki is not shown during the first half of the episode, it is assumed that she would be among the crowd that is watching Akane Owari and Nekomaru Nidai's fight.

In the second half, while Chiaki Nanami is making friends through gaming, Ibuki is shown to be playing a racing game with Hiyoko, Chiaki, and Chisa. She was in first place for a while, but was soon passed by both Chiaki and Chisa. As she puts it, she simply needs to use a certain item to get back in first place. Before she can use the item, Hiyoko knocked Ibuki off the track, effrctively putting her in last place. She seems to get upset at this point, crying out loudly as Chiaki and Chisa both cross the finish line, but when she was put on the track again, Hiyoko knocked her right back off again.

During the break time, Ibuki and her classmates ate Teruteru and Hiyoko's nikujaga. Unfortunately, Ibuki affected by the aphrodisiacs that Hiyoko secretly added into the food. She felt that her body's temperature heated after she ate the food. She and the others recovered sometimes later in the nurse's office.

Chisa gathered Ibuki and the others in the classroom in the next day, announcing that she elected Chiaki as their class representative. Like the others, Ibuki didn't object Chisa's decision.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All Futures 
At the beginning of the episode, Ibuki and her classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building, playing her guitar along the way.

Later that day, Ibuki and the others visited the park on the side of the school's main building. She was playing her air guitar beside Hiyoko. Later, she spotted Fuyuhiko and Peko Pekoyama having a conversation on an alley, saying that it was her first time to see Fuyuhiko and Peko talked to each other.

Several days later in their classroom, Ibuki and her classmates looked worried at Mahiru who was crying on Hiyoko's chest after her friend from Reserve Course, Sato got murdered.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito Komaeda 
Due to the deaths of Natsumi Kuzuryu and Sato that affected her class' morale greatly, Ibuki was unlike her usual self, remain silent and looked bored on her desk when Chisa announced the annual practical exam that will start tomorrow.

At the end of the episode, Ibuki was angered knowing that Chisa was transferred to the Reserve Course after the bombing incident of the gym involving Nagito Komaeda. However, the principal's decision can not be changed and she must bid her farewell to her beloved teacher.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the End 
Ibuki and the rest of the class planned a surprise party in celebration of Chisa's return to the Main Course, after her probationary semester teaching the Reserve Course. Ibuki was extremely pleased to see her. When Chisa asked where Hiyoko might be, Ibuki explained she was in the washroom at just the wrong time.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
As the class was preparing to move to their new classroom in the new school building, Ibuki became overwhelmed and excited over seeing Fuyuhiko and Peko act like a mature couple. She rushed over to question if something is going on between them. Teruteru made a perverted joke, so Ibuki pretended her foot accidentally slipped so she could kick him across the classroom.

When Ibuki and the rest of the class moved to the new classroom, Akane asked when Nagito would return. Chisa explained that it would be soon, and said that the whole class must miss him. However, they felt the opposite, and Ibuki laughed uncontrollably.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy History 
When Hiyoko inquires into Mikan's whereabouts, Ibuki explains she went off with Ryota, Ultimate Imposter.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by Chance 
Ibuki, Hiyoko and Chiaki watched on as the Reserve Course Parade continued strongly. Chisa attempted to cheer the class up, but Ibuki told her that she was still afraid.

Upon Nagito's return, Ibuki and the rest of the class expressed their disappointment, as they were expecting it to be Mikan. After Nagito explained that he noticed her in the West District, everyone went for her on the school grounds, including Ibuki.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Ibuki and the class reconvened at the school classroom. After failing to find Mikan, they presumed Nagito gave them false information. Chiaki made her way to the classroom, while carrying an unconscious Nagito. She explained to the class that Chisa is in trouble, and they agreed to help. Ibuki called their rescue mission 'Operation Take Back Our Teacher'. Nagito pointed out there is high risk and a chance of them dying. Ibuki and the class considered these concerns, but Chiaki convinced them otherwise. Nagito then claimed that he was only testing them and their hope.

In order to save the real Ryota Mitarai, The Ultimate Imposter revealed his true identity. Ibuki was one the most shocked as he unmasked himself, however she came to accept it quickly.

Ibuki and the class left the Main Course building and headed for Junko's lair, but encountered The Parade. The protesting Reserve Course students attacked Ibuki and her class, with the hope that deaths would open spaces in the Main Course. Ibuki was panicked by the sudden encounter. Nekomaru and Gundham stayed behind to fend them off, and the rest of the class continued on.

They soon reached the stairway leading to Junko's hideout underneath The Founder's statue, and descended. Ibuki worried for Chisa's safety but Chiaki convinced her that they aren't too late to save her.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope 
Ibuki and the class continued down the corridor after making their descent of the stairway, with Mikan eventually catching up with them. A door flung open unexpectedly, and multiple eyes appeared in the darkness, causing Kazuichi to scream, and catching the attention of the rest of the class. Ibuki and the class were relieved to find it was Nekomaru and Gundham, and that they were both okay. Ibuki proclaimed that all that is left is to save Chisa, to which the rest of the class agreed.

Mikan, now leading the group, approached a large red door at the end of the corridor, pressed a button to open the door, and Ibuki and the rest of the class followed her inside. Once inside, Junko revealed multiple monitors showing Chiaki Nanami's Punishment. Ibuki was horrified by what she saw. She wanted to find a way to save Chiaki, but was powerless to move.

Once Chiaki reached the "goal" in her execution, she opened the door to see Chisa, Ibuki, and the rest of the class on the other side. Once she reached for Chisa's hand, spikes appeared from under the ground and stabbed Chiaki everywhere on her body. As the broadcast ended, Ibuki and the class fell silent, with a patterned swirl in their eyes. They have now lost their hope and become part of Ultimate Despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy 
Ibuki and the rest of the class returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher and started reading a letter she prepared, Ibuki and the rest of the class clapped with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turned on, and Chisa started to cry. The swirl pattern returned to their eyes, and they each made a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. Ibuki expressed she will 'use her music to make the world happy'.

After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activated a bomb to fake the death of Class 77-B. Ibuki and her class stood outside the school grounds as they watched Hope's Peak Academy's destruction.

Chisa's narration later reveals Ibuki helped infect the world with despair.

During the Tragedy 
The members of Ultimate Despair did all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world.

After the death of Junko, the remnants of the Ultimate Despair agreed to an insane plan to have AI Junko take over their bodies, so they could resurrect their leader.

The remnants of Despair are later found by Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by AI Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the Charm 
As a member of Ultimate Despair, seen in the flashback, Ibuki and Hiyoko held a concert together during the Tragedy to rally the brainwashed army's spirit.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Hajime Hinata first finds Ibuki at the supermarket, where he goes on to introduce himself but is cut-off by Ibuki, saying that he wasn't enthusiastic enough about his introduction and proceeds to energetically introduce herself instead and then talks about the supermarket itself.

Later, after all the students had already gathered their very first Hope fragments by introducing themselves, Usami gathered them at the sandy beach to received presents from her.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
Later into the game, Ibuki was invited, as well as the other students, to a party that Ultimate Imposter was throwing. She was super excited to go and she is seen by Hajime, telling him that she is having a 'light exercise' to make the food taste better. This party turns out to be where the first murder takes place.

Ibuki has an important role in the first trial: given that she is Ultimate Musician, Ibuki has keen hearing as evidenced by giving her input on how she heard everyone conversations during the black-out. This turns out to be vital evidence towards revealing the culprit.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
In Chapter 2, Ibuki is found grunting by the pool, thinking of a new music genre to forget about her 'girl band days' and asks Hajime to come and find her if he has some inspiration for her. If the player has the album, Summer Festrivitrees, Ibuki gets the idea to gather the other girls to have a beach party. That night, Hajime sets off fireworks on the beach with Ibuki, Mikan, Chiaki Nanami, Akane, Peko, Sonia Nevermind, and Nekomaru.

Kazuichi Soda and Hajime find her and Mikan which could mean that Ibuki and Mikan plan to go to the event together outside the diner earlier than planned, for the boys were waiting for them inside the diner. After Kazuichi suggests that they all go swimming together, Ibuki suggests that they wait inside the diner for the others to arrive. They then see Hiyoko Saionji running in the opposite direction of the beach in tears.

Kazuichi questions if Hiyoko was originally planning to swim with the girls, but Mikan tells her that she refused the invitation. Ibuki also brings up the fact that Mahiru Koizumi also refused.

After Ibuki and the rest of the girls arrived at the diner, Kazuichi leaves to go get parasols in the beach house. Their beach party is then interrupted by the Body Announcement. The body discovered turns out to be Mahiru's, her upper body up against a door in the beach house.

Ibuki, Peko, Chiaki, and Sonia come to the Beach House after Hajime and Kazuichi discover Mahiru's body, following the Body Announcement. It is later revealed that Mahiru had invited Ibuki, as well as Mikan and Hiyoko, to talk about the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case but Ibuki refused, seeing as she had plans to go to the beach party. It is also noted that Ibuki was one of the characters in Monokuma's game Twilight Syndrome Murder Case as Girl C.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
In Chapter 3, if the player has Toy Camera, Ibuki, along with Hiyoko and Chiaki, will do a performance in memory of Mahiru. Ibuki played the guitar and sang, Hiyoko danced and Chiaki played the triangle, while Hajime took pictures with the Toy Camera.

Later, in the afternoon, Ibuki invites Hajime to come to the supermarket to come and see the fireworks at night. When Hajime asks if they'll be by themselves, she replies with "Ohoh, Hajime is quite the bold one. You want to be alone with Ibuki in the dead of night is that it?" She then assures them that they will not be alone, as Chiaki, Sonia, Mikan, Akane and Nekomaru will be there as well.

Later, after Fuyuhiko was found to be okay, Ibuki invited everyone to the music venue to perform for Fuyuhiko's return. Everyone expected her to sing something light and catchy, given that the song title was called "From Me to You Too". This was actually not the case, her music being more like Noise Metal, causing everyone became frightened; even Gundham Tanaka saying that his hamsters fell in defeat. However, Hiyoko enjoyed the song, and may even have been a fan of Ibuki's.

The only one who seemed to like that performance was Hiyoko. The morning after the performance, Ibuki was acting strangely, and was running a high fever. Monokuma revealed that this was his next motive, a sickness known as 'despair disease' that has different symptoms for each person.

Ibuki catches the despair disease and her personality changes: she became overly gullible, and Monokuma called it the "Gullible Disease". She also had a more extensive vocabulary. Ibuki, along with Nagito and Akane, were admitted to the hospital, where Mikan took care of them. Hajime and Fuyuhiko also stayed at the hospital to help Mikan with the ill students.

However, Mikan also caught the disease, getting the "Remembering Disease". Mikan, having reverted back into a Remnant of Despair, murdered Ibuki in the music venue by strangling her with a rope. However, Hiyoko arrived at the Titty Typhoon and witnessed Mikan preparing the crime. Mikan had no other choice but to kill her along with Ibuki, and sliced Hiyoko's throat.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
Currently, Ibuki is most likely comatose, just like most of her classmates. The survivors of the Killing Game are waiting for her and the rest of their classmates to wake up.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Ibuki appeared in Nagito's imaginary world following his death in the Neo World Program.

During morning class Ibuki is seen practicing her guitar before giving an introductory performance commanding everyone to greet Chisa before being seated.

She later attended Kazuichi Soda's funeral after he was murdered by the World Destroyer.

Real-
Nagito is awakened from the Neo World Program by Hajime thus ending his imaginary world. Ibuki along with the rest of Class 77-B board a ship to take them to Future Foundation Headquarters.

Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Ibuki returned in Side: Hope alongside the rest of the Class 77-B, who had been resurrected by Izuru Kamukura although Izuru was now combined with the personality and memories of Hajime. They arrived at the island where the Future Foundation's off-shore facility was located, having left from Jabberwock Island and proceeded by rescuing Byakuya Togami and Yasuhiro Hagakure from being trapped under rubble, they then began their fight against Ryota's brainwashed rescue squad troops, including the Former Super High School Level Elite Task Force.

Venturing into the underwater facility beneath the main building, Ibuki played on her electric guitar, to a crowd of brainwashed rescue squad troops, forcing them unconscious with the sheer pain of her music. She is saved by Mahiru who quashed the efforts of the former Ultimate Marksman taking aim for a shot at Ibuki, fortunately the flash of Mahiru's camera caused the squad member temporary blindness, enabling Mahiru to remove their noise cancelling headphones, causing him to fall unconscious. Mahiru and Ibuki share a high five once all squad members are down. Later, Ibuki helped convince Ryota to abandon his plan to brainwash the world. When Hajime began persuading him to join them in atonement, Ibuki happily accepted Ryota to the group.

Shortly afterword, Ibuki and the other Former Remnants of Despair shoulder the blame for the Final Killing Game in a broadcast to the Future Foundation, presenting themselves in their despair persona and relieving the organization of any wrongdoing.

With the battle won, Ibuki and the Class 77-B return to Jabberwock island by boat, she is last seen feeding Ryota some of Teruteru's prepared food before continuing conversation with him a little while after.

Relationships 
Class 77-B:
Hiyoko 
Ibuki appears to like Hiyoko, though she is amazed by how many tears Hiyoko can cry. They seem to have a similar taste in music, which is revealed in Ibuki's "Welcome Back" party for Fuyuhiko. Ibuki played one of her songs, but Hiyoko was the only one who enjoyed it.

Hiyoko seems to think of Ibuki as a friend as well, despite the fact that she often insults her. She joins Ibuki's improvised band as a dancer. During the events of chapter 2, it is revealed that both Ibuki and Hiyoko, along with Mahiru, Mikan, and Sato, were best friends at Hope's Peak Academy. During the Killing School Trip, Ibuki and Hiyoko were murdered together by Mikan, but despite this, the three were seen celebrating together along with Mahiru on the ship, following the events of the Tragedy and their awakening from their coma.

When Ibuki and Hiyoko were still members of Ultimate Despair, the two of them often performed together on the stage, rallying the spirit of the brainwashed army using the Monokuma helmets.

Mikan 
Prior to The Tragedy, Mikan was one of Ibuki's best friends, which was later revealed in Monokuma's second motive, "Twilight Syndrome Murder Case". Ibuki was the only one in their class who addressed Mikan by her first name back then, along with Mahiru.

Ibuki takes joy in watching Mikan fall into humiliating poses, however no real harm is actually intended on her side. She is often one of the first to notice when Mikan finds herself in these situations and claims that Mikan looks so adorable whenever she is embarassed. Despite usually finding it entertaining, Ibuki sometimes shows concern for her, namely when Nagito knocked her down in Side: Hope and Ibuki being the first person who tried to chase after Mikan. Mikan is very shy around Ibuki, and is often interrupted by her. Ibuki still cares for Mikan after the murder incident and even forgives her for it and treated Mikan as her closet friends as usual. Ibuki's taste in music deeply disturbs Mikan, who reacted in horror upon hearing Ibuki play for the first time.

During the Killing School Trip, when infected with the Despair Disease, Mikan targets Ibuki as her first victim, due to Ibuki's illness turning her naive. It was shown that Mikan killed Ibuki for the sake of Junko Enoshima since Ibuki is the closest person and a dear friend to Mikan and Ibuki is the only one who could led Mikan into despair even more for her beloved. Despite this, the two remain close friends upon awakening from their coma and are even seen celebrating together on the ship alongside Mahiru and Hiyoko.

In New "Danganronpa V3" bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Ibuki was awaken at the infirmary with Mikan. Mikan was calm and happy to hear that her friend is okay. Ibuki felt bad for Mikan since she made her very worried for her which she apologized after. Ibuki responded that it's okay for her since Mikan was a person who ask since she became very helpful for Ibuki and she trusted her. In the end, Ibuki tries to cheer her up and states how cute Mikan is even when she made a sad face.

Mahiru 
Mahiru was another one of Ibuki's best friends before the Tragedy. Like she does all her friends, Ibuki called Mahiru by her first name. In return, Mahiru adressed her as Ibuki-chan.

Mahiru seems to be weirded out at times by Ibuki's eccentric behavior but still considers her a friend. She is deeply disturbed by Ibuki's odd taste in music, seen covering her ears when she hear Ibuki play at Hope's Peak Academy. Ibuki likes Mahiru and feels guilty about Mahiru's death in the Neo World Program because she didn't accept her invitation to talk.

After the two awaken from the Neo World Program, Mahiru helped Ibuki when a brainwashed troops attempted to shot her, and they are seen high-fiving each other. Later, they celebrate together on the ship along with Mikan and Hiyoko after the battle has ended.

Ultimate 
Ibuki has a friendly relationship with the Ultimate Imposter (impersonating as Byakuya), though they are sometimes a bit annoyed with her.

Ibuki thinks that they are very cool and reliable and she admires their leadership skills. During chapter 2, after their death, she states that she misses him a lot. She even told Hajime that she also misses his piggy fingers. In addition, during chapter 5 when she and the other deceased characters show up, she greets him by oinking and explaining that she said "You're so cool" in pig talk.

While not apparent in the game, many manga portray Ibuki with a some sort of crush on the Ultimate Imposter and she's often shown to be attracted to his build. Though, it should be noted that the manga are non-canon.

Peko 
Ibuki appears to be attracted to Peko. In Chapter 1, when Peko offers to be on guard duty and leaves the room, Ibuki grins and mutters to herself that she feels Peko has "this super cool, melancholy vibe".

In a Special Event during the first chapter, the two are walking together on the beach when they meet Hajime, Kazuichi and Teruteru. Ibuki winks and claims she was holding hands with Peko, though Peko stoically denies this and tells Teruteru not to fantasize about weird things when he imagines the two girls having sex. When Peko talks about splitting open a coconut and describes how she wouldn't make a mistake with a sword, Ibuki gets really excited, screaming that she's so cool and that she might fall in love with her quiet words. She then begins to call her "Peko-Peko". Peko seems to mostly ignore her behavior.

Ryota 
Upon meeting him for the first time, Ibuki seemed to take a liking to Ryota, most likely due to to her friendship with the Ultimate Imposter who impersonated him. She developed a similar relationship with Ryota, and likes to play around with him. She is seen eagerly talking to him on the ship with the Imposter, and even shoves food into his mouth at one point.

Teruteru 
During at Hope's Peak Academy and the School Trip, Ibuki found Teruteru to be very gross, due to his perverted nature. She would constantly physically hurt and interrupt him because of this. However, much like her fellow classmates, she enjoys Teruteru's cooking very much.

Reserve Course Students:

In Twilight Syndrome Murder Case, it was revealed that Sato was one of Ibuki's friends. They, along, with Mikan, Hiyoko, and Mahiru spent time together prior to Sato's murder.

Hajime 
Ibuki and Hajime seem to be good friends. They bonded over performance exercises during her Free Time Events. Also during her Free Time Events, Ibuki was trying to help Hajime remember his talent. She insisted that it should've been obvious what she was trying to do, but Hajime claimed he didn't even realize it, and was touched that she was trying to help him.

Ibuki often pokes fun at Hajime, saying that he has developed a crush on her or, that he is looking for an excuse to be alone with her. Ibuki also gave Hajime some advice that even when people are constantly changing, either physically or otherwise, that they are always going to be their true selves and she made Hajime promise her that he will never give up on trying to find out his true self. In Hajime's official relationship chart, Ibuki states she wants him to be the drummer in her band, and insists that the two are in a band, even teaching him lessons. However, according to Hajime, she only taught him how to use a loudspeaker.

Free Time 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Ibuki Mioda
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Ibuki in order to learn more about her. If he gives Ibuki a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Ibuki will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Ibuki's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Ibuki's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567X
Ibuki Mioda's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Keyboard	Drums	Bass
Agreeing on the direction	Technique	A sense of unity
--	--	--
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 046 2 5D Headphones DR2 Present 060 American Clacker DR2 Present 075 Desperation DR2 Present 083 Two-Sided Ukulele DR2 Present 087 Absolute Tuning Fork DR2 Present 101 Lust Setsugekka

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Ibuki grants the following skills:

Shred Guitar	Increases acceleration speed.
Effective during Logic Dive.	5 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Ibuki Mioda
Quotes 
DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

""I," "Buki," "Mio," "Da!" Put it together and what do you get? Ibuki Mioda!"
"I-I don't understand it myself... Why do I get hungry when I'm excited? Why do I get excited when I'm hungry? Kyahaha, the human body sure is a mystery!"
"Like Schubert, Bach, Edison, Van Gogh, Perez, and Senna...I, too, am an awesome musician!"
"Living together on this tropical island sure is exciiiiting! I'm super looking forward to it!"
Chapter 1:

"Grrrrrr...! It's like everything here is just full of mysteries!"
"H-Hey...isn't this kinda bad? The mood's totally set to like, "OH NOES!" right now, y'know? I got it! Ibuki's gonna help get the party started by siiiiiiinging! ...Man, even *I'm* not sure I should say that right now."
"Mmm, seeing Peko's back as she walks away makes me feel like she's got this super cool, melancholy vibe..."
"I-It's pitch black! My future is pitch black!"
"Apparently, a great man once said, "Investigations should be done on foot." Sooo, that's why I'm also using my feet! I'm just walking around for no particular reason!"
"Tee hee, not only do I have a perfect face, style, and personality, but I also have perfect ears!"
"Any fried rice that isn't fried rice with gravy is soooooooo wrong!"
"Holy crap! He's *totally* the type of guy who spent his childhood killing neighborhood pets!"
"How can you smile in a situation like this, you creep!"
Chapter 2:

"Welcome to the world of girl love! It's slippery when wet!"
"Nobody wants to live in a swashbuckling, Hollywood type, action film!"
"That girl... She's probably gonna get even stronger."
"The more you fight, the stronger you get... That's what being a battle-lover is all about!"
"But you should talk about it more, you know. Shoot me with your word arrows!"
"That's right! He may have had piggy fingers, but he was really totally awesome! It sounds easy to keep a promise till the very end, but I think it's actually really, really hard."
"He's not a little creepy, he's creepy to the max! His creepiness is so high he could sell tickets to see it!"
"Gyaaah! And it was the best phrase of all time, too! It would've filled you with chills! This is a big loss for humanity as well! So you gotta act sadder!"
"An army marches on its stomach, while swimmers can only splash around on their stomachs too! I'm gonna heartily eat a hamburger with a side of rice!"
"Muah-haha! Wearing a bikini is suuuuuure daring! And you get bonus points for wearing a white one! My heart's not just thumping, it's thumping all sporadically like "Badump, thump! Thump, badump!"
"Young ladies are sure well-endowed nowadays... Is that a challenge against all the women in the world?"
"Th-This is too weird... Something this weird should only happen in song lyrics..."
"Ibuki's a tough girl, so I don't touch anything powered by electricity except electric guitars! Yeah, but disappointment varies depending on the person, Ibuki associates it with department store rooftops."
"My goodness...I got it right... And I was just throwing things out there... Tahaaa! Just as I thought, I'm chosen by the gods!"
"Gravel *inside* the swimsuit!? Even the ace attorney would be astonished by such a fantastic idea!"
"...Jeez, I wish he'd just side with the enemy already so I can believe what he's saying!"
"Her personality got a hell of a lot more forceful once she stopped being a suspect!"
"Tahaa! I shouldn't say things I don't understand, like "so to speak"!"
"Littering is prohibited...even if it might be evidence, rules are still rules..."
"People dying so easily... Falling like dominoes..."
As Girl C:

"Tahaaa! The way Girl B treats people, even loan sharks looking to collect would get sick to their stomachs!"
Chapter 3:

"I really can't imagine Hiyoko being so dilligent and earnest about something!"
"The truth is so overwhelming that I can't help shouting out! I never expected to find a music venue. I can't help feeling excited! Man, with a venue like this, Ibuki has no choice but to lend a helping hand! This is just the beginning! Yahoooooooooooooooo! I'll invite everyone to feel this wonderful feeling! It's like the smug feeling you got when you explain something with an elaborate metaphor no one understands!"
"I wanna listen to songs by Ibuki's favorite artists! There's no TV or radio here, you know!? I'm starving to death from musical deprivation!"
"Like, music shouldn't be reduced to sales numbers!"
"No problemo! You don't need skill on this stage, just heart!"
"Tee-hehehehe... Summer's all about fireworks!"
"Good mornin'! Looks like today's gonna be another perfect tropical daaaaaay!"
"Heeeeey y'all! It's Ibuki Miodaaaaaa! Thanks for coming out today! My specialty is making beef stew! Haha, I may not look like it but people tell me that I'm a nurturing type. So I'm gonna do my very best performance so I can make everyone feel better. I hope you're all pumped up!"
"No, that's not it! I know Akane's in deep trouble but you guys suck! Screw this half-baked comfort! If this were a song title, it'd be "Salt Seeping into My Broken Heart"!"
"It may be rude of me, but I would like to say my greetings first thing in the morning! Good morning! I look forward to working with you all today!"
"You came to visit and see how I am doing!? Thank you very much for your courtesy! Thank you very much for your consideration! I shall heed your kind attitude and take a rest!"
"Good morning! I am truly honored by you stopping by to see how I am doing today as well!"
"To tell you the truth, I have been getting quite bored doing nothing but sleeping. Also...it would just trouble you if I slept all the time, so I was hoping I can help you with anything... But it's better if I am sleeping, correct!?"
Chapter 5:

"PP@04Yahoooooo23`*?@@please-----’A;@listento:..o./onesonnnnnng:@;@" (Ibuki's cottage post-fifth trial)
The name "Ibuki" (唯吹) means "a sole breath" or "merely breathing". This could be a reference to her demise later in the game by strangulation.
Ibuki's last name, "Mioda" (澪田), could be translated as "rice field of the waterway".
Each kanji on her name is directly taken from the 4 protagonists of K-On!.
She also shares the same birthday with the main character of K-On!, Yui Hirasawa, which is on November 27th.
While Ibuki's title in the official English translation is the Ultimate Musician, her original title, Super High School Level Light Music Club Member is actually much more specific. "Light music" is a very common after school club activity available in many high schools across Japan. Not to be confused with the music genre know as light music whose origins are in late 19th century Britain, the Japanese "light music" (or 軽音楽 "keiongaku") genre is something similar to pop music.
Despite her success as a light music performer as proven by her title, Ibuki's original music, some of which she performs in the beginning of Chapter 3, reveals her musical preferences to be much closer to the heavy metal genre.
There are currently two known songs from Ibuki's solo repertoire: "From Me To You Too" and "I Squeezed Out The Baby But I Have No Idea Who The Father Is"; the former she performs in the beginning of chapter 3.
The way Ibuki calls her classmates in the Japanese version, using their first names and adding "-chan" (i.e. Hajime-chan, Hiyoko-chan, Nekomaru-chan), is considered the stereotypical way for girls to call their close female friends in Japanese. Considering her friendly nature, it is highly possible that Ibuki calling both her male and female classmates this particular way is due to a habit she picked up back at her previous high school (where all of her classmates were girls).
Other characters who also speak in third person within the series besides Ibuki are Monaca Towa, Gonta Gokuhara, Angie Yonaga, and Tenko Chabashira (the latter two in Japanese only).
Ibuki is shown to have attraction to people of the same gender.
Danganronpa 2 Ibuki Mioda holding hands with PekoIn Chapter 1 of Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, during the optional Coconut Party event, Ibuki tells Hajime: "I was holding hands with Peko and going for a walk when I saw you guys!" although Peko denies this. Later in the scene, Ibuki tells Peko: "I might just fall in love with those quiet words of yours!"
Also in Chapter 1, Ibuki is excited when Mikan Tsumiki falls in an embarrassing pose when getting tangled in wires: "Awwwwww! She looks so adorable when she's embarrassed! It's sooooo moe, I'm practically snorting with joy!", and again when she falls during the blackout: "Eeeeeeee-hehehehe! I can't take this at all...! Mahiru! It's time to snatch some shots!"
In Chapter 2 of Danganronpa 2, when Hiyoko Saionji tells Mahiru Koizumi "I love you Mahiru! I'll give you a kiss!", Ibuki comments: "Welcome to the world of girl love! It's slippery when wet!"
Danganronpa 2 Ibuki Mioda reacting to Chiaki's BikiniAlso in Chapter 2, Ibuki admires all the girls when they come to the Diner in their swimsuits, particularly Chiaki who is wearing a white bikini: "My heart's not just thumping, it's thumping all sporadically like 'Badump, thump! Thump, badump!'"
In the Danganronpa 2 art book, Ibuki comments that she wishes she could have seen Sonia in a bikini.
Ibuki Mioda Halfbody Sprite (22)On page 500 of the Danganronpa 1.2 Reload Art Book there is a chart showing the characters' chest sizes, and Ibuki has the line "girls these days sure have voluptuous figures, huh!" accompanied by this sprite:
During the Chapter 2 Trial, when she was told she is Girl C, Ibuki says "I guess I'll 'C' U Next Tuesday", which is a song by Pop Artist, Ke$ha. Additionally, that statement contains an obscene acronym.
In her last Free Time Events, Ibuki recites the beat-box portion of "Freak on a Leash" by American rock band, Korn and breaks the 4th wall by saying, "After all this is the last event".
The 'X' on her sign during and after Chapter 3 resembles a pair of drumsticks.
One of Ibuki's sprites is a reference to Pinocchio.
In the Island Mode, it was revealed that Ibuki has screamed inside six different libraries and now isn't allowed to enter any of them.
Girls Gun 2 x Danganronpa Game Ibuki MiodaIbuki is included in the collaboration of Danganronpa 3 x Hōkai Gakuen. In the game, a chibi version of Ibuki is seen riding on the top of the player character's head.
Ibuki's Japanese voice actress, Ami Koshimizu, also voiced Suzuko Kashiki in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc.

Kazuichi is a young man in his early twenties, around 22 at youngest. His virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as his 17-year-old self.

He, being a mechanic, wears a bright green-yellow jumper with a dark brown streak on both sides and several hot pink markings that go down to his ankles. Kazuichi's shoes are bright yellow sneakers. During his high school years, he wore a blue jumper and a cap.

Kazuichi's hair is dyed hot pink and is somewhat badly layered. However, he covers said bad layering up with the gray beanie he wears. In addition to his punk rock appearance, he has thin eyes with hot pink prescription color contacts on them at all times. Above his eyes, his thin, pronounced eyebrows nearly touch his hairline. His teeth are sharp, giving him an intimidating grin. He also has earrings, the right one having a plus sign and the left one having a minus sign.

As the Ultimate Despair, Kazuichi has the same hair and yellow jumper, as well as black gloves. He no longer wears a hat.


Kazuichidr3
Kazuichi's appearance in Danganronpa 3.


Kazuichi is a highly emotional character, though he tries to play it smooth and acts carefree at first. He is a very jumpy person, easily scared and often screaming in fear. People tend to note his scary appearance does not match his compulsive and cowardly personality. Naturally, he has a great fear of dying on the island, which causes a lot of stress and panic for him.

Kazuichi also has a tendency to neglect his need for a verbal filter and blurts things out without thinking. He also seems to be a very bad liar, leading him to be contradictory at times. While he is a genius with machinery, he appears to be a bit slow-witted otherwise. Like Mikan Tsumiki, he is commonly Monokuma and Hiyoko Saionji's target and often ends up being the butt of their jokes.

Being the Ultimate Mechanic, Kazuichi normally tries to repair any broken items on the island with his ability and familiarity with mechanisms. He tends to carry around a spanner/wrench and he turns anxious if he cannot tinker with something. He has a great love for machinery, especially fast ones like rockets and bikes, which is ironic because he suffers from a bad motion sickness. At times, his love for machinery seems to reach even abnormal levels. In Island Mode, he appears to question his sexuality around Hajime Hinata (for example, he was excited and then confused reaction about taking clothes off with him and he's afraid he'll dream about a date with Hajime after he jokingly suggested a one), only to comically confess to him that he is attracted to tanks. In Chapter 3, it's also revealed that he apparently likes the idea of undressing a girl and checking out her bone structure, since he thinks it's similar to dismantling machines. He seems to think it's normal, though Hajime is weirded out by this and calls it a fetish.

Kazuichi also likes girls a lot, though in a rather perverted and shallow way. He has taken a strong liking to Sonia Nevermind, to an extent of being a pervert, somewhat stalker-like and in constant jealousy of Gundham Tanaka. He claims that he's dreamed of a beautiful blond girlfriend since he was a kid and his affection towards Sonia seems rather shallow, as he actually seems to dislike some of her actual personality traits, like her love for the occult. Sonia dislikes this behavior and calls him a stalker. According to Kazuichi, after he changed his appearance in the past, some girls took interest in him and he was actually a bit frightened by this.

Despite having some weird quirks, Kazuichi is described as the straight man and one of the more ordinary students in the group. In his Free Time Events, it's revealed that he suffers from self-esteem and trust issues. Due to a past friendship, he has a hard time trusting others and he acted especially paranoid during the beginning of the game. He also reveals his appearance was chosen for the sake of his image, not because he actually likes it. His trust issues cause him some conflict with Hajime, but he calms down quite soon and is willing to apologize. Despite some issues, he develops a close friendship with Hajime, and he considers him his "soul friend". However, Hajime can be quite annoyed with him, since he can act rather clingy and turns even whinier and threatens to bug Hajime even more if he refuses to hang out with him.

Along with most of his classmates, Kazuichi sympathizes with the fallen. He doesn't let it get him down, but he neglects to simply let the death of his classmates be shaken off. Kazuichi even makes a small toy out of Nekomaru Nidai's robot remains for everyone in an effort to impress Sonia. Kazuichi even displays being a bit shaken up about Teruteru Hanamura's death. He is stunned but shoved into pushing away his shock because of Hiyoko's comments. Despite this, he seems to still be heavily affected for a while. This pattern repeats itself for nearly every death.

Talent and 
Ultimate 
Back on his home, Kazuichi and his parents run a bike shop together. He is the genius mechanic of his family and always the one who's helping out at the shop since his father isn't very dependable. He has tinkered with and studied machines since he was a child and is capable of fixing anything from kids toys to household appliances. He has been surrounded by junk and tools and has grown a habit of taking things apart and putting them back together. That's the environment where the Ultimate Mechanic was raised in.

Kazuichi is known for making inventions of his own and is very passionate about his works. In his home, he makes a bike, and according to his calculations, it has a top speed of 585 mph. Even though he knows that kind of bike is street illegal and he can't even ride that bike due to his motion sickness, he is very eager to continue his incomplete project.

Kazuichi often got yelled at for modifying various things at school or at home. His greatest invention was attaching an engine to the machine that draws the chalk lines on the soccer field, but it escaped through the school entrance at full speed, without curving or stopping.

The things that Kazuichi fix always end up being some kind of vehicle. During the Killing School Trip, Kazuichi disassembled his alarm clock and when he put the gear back, he ends up making some kind of car machine. Messing with machines makes him inspired and energized. He likes all kinds of machines, especially vehicles.

With his talent, Kazuichi tries to think of every possible way to escape from Jabberwock Island. The first thing that he checked is planes that located at the airport. When he found that the planes are engineless, he didn’t stop until there. In one of his Free Time Events, he revealed that he planned to put pedals on the ship and pedal boat off the island.

Kazuichi has a dream to create a rocket ship, the biggest, fastest, and the very top of the vehicle food chain.

In other 
Kazuichi's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Mechanic
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「メカニック」	Super High School Level Mechanic
Français Ultime Mécano	Ultimate Mechanic
Skilled Inventor 
When reviewing Kazuichi's background, despite him being skilled in repairing machinery and various other mechanical objects and appliances he has always used his skills for his own pleasure and has an eye for creativity. This is seen by the many countless inventions that he is often seen creating, throughout his life he has created many successful inventions by using his skills as a mechanic, often these are useful tools related to his specialty field.

The many inventions which he has created include making a bike that could go at a top speed of 585 mph, adding an engine to the soccer chalk line machine. These were minor inventions that he created when learning to become a talented mechanic in his father's workshop and he inputted his innovative ideas into these various technologies, despite these inventions not being successful Kazuichi's inspired work clearly has success when it comes to motorization.

His most notable inventions include during the Killing School Trip where he disassembled Mechamaru's mechanical parts and used the undamaged components to create Minimaru, a small, lifelike representation of Nekomaru equipped with unique catchphrases, alarm clock and the ability to give the user a professional massage and relax sore muscles and pressure points. Akane is very pleased with this invention and Kazuichi stated spending all night working on the project, showing not only his dedication to inventing but his creativity, speed and success when it comes to inventing in a short amount of time.

Another invention which Kazuichi was working on during his first school year at Hope's Peak Academy is unidentifiable but it is very large and Kazuichi is very invested in this project, skipping class in order to complete his invention in a short amount of time. His passion for inventing is what allows him to build on his creativity.

When Kazuichi turned to despair he was also responsible for an enormous model of Monokuma, which was able to rampage through cities and buildings with ease. This creation, despite being for nefarious purposes, was another one of Kazuichi's successful works as an inventor and would have taken a considerable amount of work to complete, showing his skill in this field.


Prior to the 
Kazuichi's life seemed to have been fairly tougher than a normal child's. He and his father ran his family's bike shop, but nothing was ever sold. The bike shop wasn't always inactive, however, many customers would ask for them to fix their bike tires or inflate them. Despite this, the family was still often low on money. In result, though, Kazuichi got plenty of practice with making and building things.

Kazuichi liked to mess up many things, such as his greatest invention, attaching an engine to the machine that draws the chalk lines on soccer fields. However, it escaped through the school entrance at full speed, without curving or stopping.

As a child, Kazuichi was also very skittish and easily picked on. He had a best friend in middle school. They always did everything together, and could he talk to him about anything. One time, Kazuichi let him cheat off his test because his friend had begged him for help, but they both got caught by the teacher. He insisted that Kazuichi was the one who willingly gave him the answers. Starting from that point, his friend kept avoiding Kazuichi, though, in actuality, Kazuichi didn't really care about being scolded. However, because of this, Kazuichi later developed trust issues.

Kazuichi let other children step all over him, but then he decided to change his appearance entirely. From changing his hair color to losing his glasses, and presumably sharpening his teeth, so that he could fit in better with people around him. It seems as if it'd do the opposite, but that may just be how his mind works. At this point, he began to put up the "Tough punk" facade to avoid more bullying, which, to this day, continues to break almost constantly.

In addition to Kazuichi's rough childhood, with money and bullying problems, his dad seemed to have beat him at times. In one of his Free Time Events, he states that he had never been on a field trip, and spoke quite casually about his father beating him when he didn't attend school on those days. Such behavior suggests that he was a subject of excessive abuse.

As a teen, Kazuichi attended Toushima Industry High School. Thanks to his great mechanic skills, he later enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Mechanic, in Class 77-B. He quickly developed a crush on Sonia Nevermind, a foreign princess.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak 
Kazuichi was busy working at a big machine until he noticed that Sonia came to visit him. He jumped from the machine and happily greeted Sonia. However, Sonia slowly moved away from him due to his strong smell of oil, after he questions her whether this was the case, she kindly states no, then his new homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome taps his shoulder with her gas mask on to Kazuichi's shock and horror.

After Kazuichi joined and retrieved Gundham, Ibuki Mioda, and Peko Pekoyama, he and his classmates came to an area outside the school to search for Nagito Komaeda. He commented that nothing good happens to him whenever Nagito is around. Soon enough, Kazuichi was hit by a truck and sustained an injury, while Nagito won a lucky streak on a vending machine when the truck flying high in the air bounced off it.

Kazuichi is later seen with all of his face bandaged due to the accident earlier (possibly treated by Mikan). Before Chisa went to retrieve two remaining students, she tasked everyone to clean the classroom. Kazuichi who denied her order had his table stabbed with two knives, threatened by his homeroom teacher playfully. He disliked Chisa at first but changed his mind soon after he heard Sonia's excitement.

After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that Kazuichi and the others had waited and that the classroom was clean. When the students once again bring up that they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
Kazuichi and his classmates took cover on the side of the classroom when Akane Owari and Nekomaru clashed during their deadly training session, almost destroyed the whole classroom. After the training end, Kazuichi and the others repaired their classroom together. He also built a big monitor so that everyone can play games that Chiaki Nanami brought. Kazuichi proudly explained that he was the one who built the monitor to Chisa, but no one paid attention to him.

Kazuichi played a monopoly-like game with Nagito, Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu, and Teruteru. He mocked Nagito that almost defeated while he almost won. However, Nagito's luck reign supreme and turned the tables, making Kazuichi lost disgracefully.

During the break time, Kazuichi and the others ate nikujaga that has been cooked by Teruteru and Hiyoko. However, the food contained with aphrodisiacs itself affected everyone including Kazuichi who ate it to lost their body control and drowned in lust. When Kazuichi saw his chance to reach Sonia, Fuyuhiko desperately trying to stop him. Sometimes later, Kazuichi recovered in the nurse's office.

In the next day, He agreed with Sonia and Chisa to elect Chiaki as their class representative.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, Kazuichi and his classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building. He was bitten by Gundham's Maga-Z. Later on, Kazuichi and his classmates visited the school's park and once again playing with Gundham's Four Dark Devas of Destruction.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
Kazuichi was listening to Chisa's announcement about the annual practical exam that will start tomorrow inside the classroom, still showing no spirit along with his classmates as their morale decreased greatly due to the deaths of Natsumi Kuzuryu and Sato.

Kazuichi and the others already heard the news of Chisa's transfer to the Reserve Course and when she arrived in the classroom to bid her farewell, Sonia broke in tears, surprising Kazuichi and made him unable to comfort her.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Kazuichi was part of Chisa's welcome back party in his classroom. He and Teruteru told that their classmate Fuyuhiko didn't want to come until he saw how hard Chiaki worked for the party. He was jealous when Sonia and Gundham synchronized in welcoming back their teacher using Gundham's unique way of speaking.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful 
Kazuichi and his classmates moved to the new school building starting from that day. When Chisa told the class Nagito will be arriving back soon and bets they all miss him, most of them including Kazuichi told her otherwise.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's 
Kazuichi is seen watching Gundham as he tames a bear, cautious of Sonia getting too close to it in fear of it attacking. When Sonia worries about being a low-ranked demon, according to Gundham, Kazuichi responds by telling her that she was an angel. When Fuyuhiko notices that both Mikan and the Ultimate Imposter are missing from the classroom, Kazuichi thinks that they're doing "extracurricular studies" together. To Kazuichi's surprise, Teruteru then further describes his thoughts using a donut and a banana, Kazuichi holding the donut, Teruteru the banana, Kazuichi's face is more expressively uncomfortable and sweating as Teruteru describes the process, before Gundham's bear bites both of their hands.

After learning about the Izuru Kamukura Project and The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy via an email sent out by Junko Enoshima, the Reserve Course students begin to riot. Kazuichi is seen hugging Teruteru out of fear as he watches this from his new classroom.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by 
Kazuichi is unimpressed when Peko conveyed that the faculty considered the Reserve Course student protest a 'parade'. When Nagito returned to the class from his suspension, they all, including Kazuichi, have a displeased look on their face when realizing it isn't Mikan. Kazuichi went outside the school grounds with the rest of the class to look for Mikan who Nagito says he saw heading for the West District.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
The class reconvenes at the school classroom as they are unable to find Mikan. Kazuichi becomes agitated, assuming Nagito lied to them about Mikan's appearance in the West District. When Chiaki reaches the classroom with an unconscious Nagito, explaining to them that Chisa is in danger, Kazuichi becomes worried by this. Nagito convincingly makes clear that it will be dangerous and there is a possibility of them dying, to which Kazuichi contemplates these concerns but Chiaki convinces him otherwise.

The Ultimate Imposter reveals his true identity, to Kazuichi's shock along with the rest of the class although they come to accept it quickly. Nagito wishes to go with them although doesn't have the strength to walk, Sonia commanding Kazuichi to give him a piggyback ride to which he agrees swiftly.

After leaving the Main Course building, the Reserve Course students seek to take them on in a battle to open placements on the Main Course, Kazuichi and the class go on ahead, leaving Nekomaru and Gundham to fend them off.

On the way down the stairway to Junko's lair, everyone becomes worried for Gundham and Nekomaru's safety although Kazuichi convinces Sonia that Gundham knows how to get things done before regretting helping his romantic rivals credibility with Sonia.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope 
Kazuichi and the class continue down the corridor after making their descent of the stairway, Mikan eventually catching up with them. Upon hearing from Mikan, who lies that Chiaki is resting her ankle in one of the nearby rooms, Kazuichi suggests that they should have left Nagito with her, feeling the effects of Nagito's weight on his back. Teruteru requests carrying Nagito, saying he falls within his 'spectrum', to Kazuichi's dismay, Teruteru begins to explain what he means, until a door is flung open, throwing Teruteru to the right and revealing two pairs of eyes from within the darkness of the room. Kazuichi screams loudly, gathering everyone's attention and shock, although Gundham and Nekomaru are the ones to appear from the darkroom to Kazuichi's relief.

Mikan, now leading the group, approaches a large red door at the end of the corridor, pressing a button which opens the door, Kazuichi and the rest of the class follow her inside. Once inside, Junko reveals multiple monitors showing Chiaki Nanami's Punishment, Kazuichi horrified by what he's seeing, wants to find a way to save Chiaki but is powerless.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Kazuichi, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. As the broadcast ends, Kazuichi and the class fall silent, with a patterned swirl in their eyes, they are now Ultimate despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Kazuichi and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated she has been honored to be their teacher, and started reading a letter she prepared. Kazuichi begins to clap with gratitude, prompting the rest of the class to do the same.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa started to cry. The patterned swirled return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. Kazuichi expressed he will 'find the solution to air pollution'. After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activated a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Kazuichi and his class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak Academy's destruction.

Chisa's narration later reveals Kazuichi helped to infect the world with despair.

During the 
At some point after this, Kazuichi joined the Ultimate Despair group that was founded by Junko. The members of Ultimate Despair did all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world. Kazuichi invented and oversaw the production of many dangerous machines for the Ultimate Despair, such as giant Monokuma.

After Junko was executed, the survivors of Ultimate Despair chopped her body up and attached some of her body parts to themselves.

The remnants of Despair are later found by Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by Alter Ego Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
As a member of Ultimate Despair, Kazuichi is seen in the flashback working on his Giant Monokuma project showed at the beginning of the episode.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Kazuichi is first seen by Hajime hanging around in the airport along with Gundham. He confirms that all airplanes in the airport are unusable, due the engines are missing. He also adds that whoever put them on the island, plans to keep them there.

Kazuichi says that although the trip is strange he may like it due to not having to do anything bad. When Hajime displays discomfort with Usami, he adds that if you look closely at her, she might look cute.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
In the beginning, after Monokuma announces that they must all kill each other to escape, Kazuichi was terrified at the prospect, causing him to jump at shadows. He even tried to escape from the meeting once but ended in failure as Mahiru Koizumi caught him. However, his focus soon shifts from a constant fear of dying to try to get Sonia to be his girlfriend.

During the trial, Kazuichi suspected Peko as the culprit of the Ultimate Imposter murder. He suspected Peko because during the blackout in the old lodge, the place where the students threw a party, Peko guarding the office room, the place where the old lodge electricity sourced. However, Peko proved innocent as the true culprit voted guilty and were executed by Monokuma.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
In the beginning of Chapter 2, Kazuichi and Nekomaru punched and chained up Nagito in order to prevent him from causing more trouble. Kazuichi also plotted to crash Sonia's all-girl beach party with Hajime by hanging out at the diner until the girls arrived.

Because of this, Kazuichi and Hajime bore witness to Hiyoko leaving the crime scene a short while after the murder took place and he was also able to testify that Hiyoko had no blood on her at the time. He was the third person to discover Mahiru's body, setting off the body discovery announcement. 

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
Kazuichi moved to the motel along with Hiyoko, Chiaki Nanami, Sonia and Gundham in Chapter 3 while the students afflicted with despair disease were under quarantine. He also built the video transponder which allows the motel group to communicate with the hospital.

Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Electric Clocks?
In Chapter 4, Kazuichi explored the Strawberry and Grape houses with Nagito since Sonia took off with Gundham before he could ask her. Having ended up with one of the poor rooms in the Strawberry House, he was able to hear the alarm and the rumbling sound.

On the third day in the morning, Kazuichi was awake because of the strawberry house alarm clocks ringing, he then meets with Gundham and Fuyuhiko who are too busy to turn it off. He contributed to the murder investigation by fixing the elevator and the Strawberry Tower door button, as well as performing the equivalent of an autopsy on Nekomaru's mechanical body. 
Kazuichi Gundam Fuyuhiko Strawberry Alarm
Kazuichi awakes because the alarm clocks ringing.

He was also able to verify the elevator turned 180 degrees with the help of Nagito's compass.
Chapter 5 - Smile at Hope in the Name of 
In Chapter 5, Kazuichi stays up two nights straight, one in which he spends the night creating MiniMaru, a small robotic version of Nekomaru with multiple functions in order to cheer everyone up after his death to which Akane gladly adopts as her own, this shows his more caring side to his group of friends after creating an uplifting speech on top of his gift, the 2nd night he then proceeds to create a plan to capture Nagito in order to prevent any more killings. The plan fails and Kazuichi flat out gets blown across the room by an explosion after apprehending Nagito with Fuyuhiko and Akane. While it seems to suggest he's been injured by the bomb Nagito placed in the lobby, he's surprisingly left unharmed despite it being rather ambiguous when he hadn't spoken for a while during the aftermath. He's the most flustered person due to Nagito's threat.

Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
In the final chapter, Kazuichi is one of the final five students out of fifteen who enters the final class trial, along with Makoto, Togami and Kirigiri also entering the program later. Throughout the trial, he often shows signs of intense fear and almost comical reactions to the events unfolding, such as discovering he himself as an Ultimate Despair and tries to disregard it, while also being apprehensive to initiate the shutdown sequence because of his fear of what he'll become. In the end, he is convinced by Hajime to create his own future and says the choice of initiating the shutdown sequence is now incredibly easy, while on the verge of despair he managed to overcome that with hope for the future. His love for Sonia has no bounds, even in the final trial.

Epilogue - The Day before the 
After the defeat of AI Junko Enoshima, Kazuichi and the former Ultimate Despair members opted to stay on the Jabberwock Island, possibly in hopes that they could do something to help their comatose friends.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Main article: Kazuichi Soda (Illusion)
Real-
After Nagito awoke from Neo World Program, he learned that all of his friends, including Kazuichi, were alive and awake from the Neo World Program. Kazuichi and Fuyuhiko both greet Nagito before he boards the boat, Nagito hugged them both strongly to their dismay. They all then boarded the boat that would take them to the Future Foundation Headquarters.

Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Kazuichi returned in Side: Hope alongside the rest of the Class 77-B, who had been resurrected by Izuru Kamukura although Izuru was now combined with the personality and memories of Hajime. Kazuichi and his classmates arrived at the island where the Future Foundation Headquarters were situated, having left from Jabberwock Island and proceeded by rescuing Byakuya Togami and Yasuhiro Hagakure from being trapped under rubble, they then began their fight against Ryota's brainwashed rescue squad troops, including the Super High School Level Elite Task Force.

Nekomaru is seen facing off against a robot unit from the Super High School Level Elite Task Force of Future Foundation but became surrounded, fortunately, Kazuichi sent an army of remote control Mini-Mecha Nidai robots (The same design of the one he made for the class in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair) to defeat the second monobeast. Seeking Sonia's praise and admiration, he felt he had once again been ignored but she explained it was quite impressive, he blushed gleefully as she smiled in return.

Later on, Kazuichi helped convince Ryota to abandon his plan to brainwash the world. When Hajime began persuading him to join them in atonement, Kazuichi put a hand on Hajime's shoulder, pointing out how he was in the Reserve Course so anyone is worthy as a classmate.

Shortly afterword, he and the other Former Remnants of Despair shoulder the blame for the Final Killing Game in a broadcast to the Future Foundation, relieving the organization of any wrongdoing.

With the battle won, Kazuichi and the Class 77-B return to Jabberwock Island. He is last seen seeking Sonia's attention as the boat takes them home.


Love Interest:
Sonia 
From the moment Kazuichi first speaks to Sonia, he bows down to her. Sonia is the only one he uses an honorific for, calling her "Miss Sonia." In addition, she is the only one he refers to on a first-name basis. Despite the amount of "respect" he gives her, he's constantly making comments about her body and appearance, in a rather gross fashion. For example, he claims in Chapter 2 that he has always wanted to see Sonia wearing a sexy swimsuit.

At first, it is unclear whether Kazuichi is simply objectifying her, or truly cares about her and does not know how to go about expressing that. However, it becomes apparent that he does objectify her, considering he treats her as if she cannot do things for herself because she is a princess. He also stated that he always wanted a beautiful blonde for a girlfriend, which fits Sonia's exterior looks. Sonia dislikes his advances to the point of actively avoiding him and being disappointed that he was not the culprit of the fourth trial. But he would often defend Sonia if somebody accuse her of murder or doubt her alibi and demand that they apologize to her.

After Gundham's death, Kazuichi made a speech on how the team must prevail and move forward. Though the speech seemed to move others, it is shown that he made the speech solely to impress Sonia, which she ignored. 

Although Sonia continues to remain uninterested in Kazuichi after the events that occurred in the Neo World Program, she is seen praising him for destroying an army of Monokumas after they arrive to assist the Future Foundation. This brings Kazuichi joy, as it's shown that Sonia now thinks of him as a friend and is at least trying to be nicer to him.

Class 77-B:
Gundham 
Kazuichi and Gundham didn't establish a really good relationship between them during the Killing School Trip. Kazuichi disliked Gundham and refused to invite him to the beach party. They had a brief childish spat during the 3rd Class Trial where they threatened to kill each other. Kazuichi disliked him even more when it became apparent that Sonia favored Gundham, resorting to name-calling ("Hamster-chan") and failed attempts to one-up him during the 4th Class Trial.

However in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, the two of them seemingly have become friends as Kazuichi often attempt to play with Gundham's hamsters and he believed that the Ultimate Breeder is a man who can get things done when he needs to.

Teruteru 
While there are no interactions between the two in the game, Kazuichi seems to have been friends with Teruteru in high school. They are mostly seen together in group activities and are even seen hugging each other in fear during a riot caused by Reserve Course students.

Fuyuhiko 
At first, Kazuichi and the Ultimate Yakuza seem to be at each other's throats quite often. Kazuichi makes comments towards Fuyuhiko such as "If you didn't have that big Yakuza family, you'd be nothing but a midget!" Which, of course, is returned by Fuyuhiko's own sharp tongue.

As time passes, though, their disagreement with each other seems to dissipate, and they become tolerant of one another. This may or may not be because of the stress of being on the island.

In Nagito's world Kazuichi, Fuyuhiko and Nagito were best friends that even considered him his brother. After Kazuichi's death, Fuyuhiko wanted to avenge his death trying to kill the murderer.

Nagito 
After trial one, Kazuichi finds Nagito to be a nutcase and is afraid of him. He and Nekomaru are the ones who tie up Nagito and Kazuichi is the one who punches him unconscious. When this happens, and everyone asks where Nagito is, Kazuichi seems extremely suspicious and he's almost immediately blamed for the murder. Later, after Kazuichi loses his trust in Hajime, he is even willing to go with Nagito to investigate instead of him.

After the events leading to Nagito's knowledge of the classes' true identity as Ultimate Despair, Nagito appears to be annoyed by Kazuichi's slow-wittedness and shows this openly after losing respect for the other students.

In Danganronpa 3, during their school years, Kazuichi claims that bad things happen to him whenever Nagito is around. For example, he loses a video game and gets hit by a truck. Kazuichi dislikes Nagito because of this, though the other boy is seemingly oblivious to it. Considering how Nagito's luck cycle works, this could imply that he wishes to be friends with Kazuichi.

In Super Danganronpa 2.5, Nagito indeed imagines Kazuichi as one of his closest friends while being inside his imaginary world, along with Fuyuhiko. The two seem to be on better terms with each other even after Nagito awakens from his coma into the real world, as Kazuichi and Fuyuhiko wait for him to greet him before boarding the boat and overall appear friendlier with him, with Kazuichi teasing him by asking him if he was dreaming about pretty girls. Though, Nagito then hugs the two, making them uncomfortable.

Reserve Course Students:
Hajime 
Hajime is a close friend of Kazuichi's. Kazuichi latches onto Hajime, calling him his "soul friend". Throughout their friendship, a brief break up ensues when he blames Hajime for "leading them" into Monokuma's trap and ends up turning to Nagito instead. They later make up.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Kazuichi Soda
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Kazuichi in order to learn more about him. If he gives Kazuichi a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Kazuichi will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Kazuichi's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Kazuichi's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567
Kazuichi Soda Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Engine	Hair dryer	Refrigerator
A rocket ship	A jet plane	A train
Date	Hit on girls	Fist fight
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 047 Radiosonde DR2 Present 053 Lilienthal’s Wings DR2 Present 056 Small Degenerated Reactor DR2 Present 092 Broken Warhead

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Kazuichi grants the following skills:

Handiwork	Allows you to reload two bullets at once.
Effective during the Panic Talk Action.	6 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Kazuichi Soda

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"Name's Kazuichi Soda. I'm the Ultimate Mechanic. Nice to meet ya."
"I-It's impossible... Why is something impossible happening...?"
Chapter 1:

"As long as I lock myself in my room, there won't be any problems!"
"Seriously, if we're on a tropical paradise then why are we in this situation in the first place!? Isn't that right? Isn't a vaction supposed to be nothing but lounging around and sipping coconut juice!?"
"Miss Sonia is a hot blonde princess! There's a sharp distinction between her and you punks!"
"Don't get distracted! Our lives are at stake, you know!"
"You're totally right... What we need to do right now...is do our best...! If we do our best...it's definitely going to pay off, right?"
Chapter 2:

"Awesome! Totally awesome! Splashing around at such a gorgeous beach is really the best!"
"Hey, there's no way you guys don't know! Don't just show up and tell some lousy lies!"
"Anyway, let's cherish the coincidence that brought us together! So is it okay if we join in too?" (to Mikan and Ibuki)
"Don't worry! Even at its worst, it won't turn into a live action drama!" (to Hajime)
"I mean it, I promise I'll give it my all to serve you so everyone has fun!"
"I'm not mentally prepared yet... Like, I don't think I'll ever be..."
"It's not cute to see an old guy sulk..."
"D-Don't blame Miss Sonia! It's just a difference between cultures... A culture shock, y'know!?"
"Th-There's no need to hesitate! No matter how you look at it, Peko's the killer!"
"Well, that's obvious! You're not a tool, you're a friggin' human being!"
"H-Hold on! Don't act like our loss has been decided yet!" (to Peko)
"I know you hate our guts but... If you listen to Peko, we're all gonna die!"
Chapter 3:

"Do you just forget everything that happens when you eat?"
"Argh, don't say stupid things! I'm the Ultimate Mechanic, you know! Of course I'm happy when I'm surrounded by machines! Hot damn, I wanna take them apart! I wanna dismantle them and look inside! That's how I usually think, right? But, I know now's not the time for me to do something like that...and that's why I feel so conflicted."
"Hell yeah! It's like, if you have the hots for a chick, you wanna take off her clothes, right? And you wanna check out her bone structure, right? Like her ribs or where parts of her bones stick out, right!?"
"Hajime, my eyes are open now, thanks to you! All right! Let's go run together! Let's go! To our horizon!"
"Okay then, let's go my friend! Let's run to our goal!"
"Horizons...are beautiful things...that you keep chasing after, right...probably...? Soooooo...what exactly is a "horizon" anyway?"
"You're like the queen of the arcade machine."
"Hold on, hold on! Who do you think I am!? I'll definitely fix it up till it's like brand new! Then when it's all fixed, I'll give it to you! Just watch! I'll completely fix it up, and I'll make you say thank you with tears running down your face!"
"Let's run, Miss Sonia! It'd be terrible if you caught the lowly disease of the common folks!"
"Don't lump hamsters and teenage boys together!" (to Gundham)
"Yeah, that's right man... There's no way we're gonna lose together here, you know? Cause if that happens...then Monokuma gets what he wants!"
"Looks like it's time for the Ultimate Mechanic to shine."
"What a wicked way of backing us into a wall... Is this his professional skill...!?"
"Apologize to Miss Sonia! And me! However, you're not allowed to slice open your stomach this time!"
"Even quick work has limits!"
"Seriously, just shut up already! Shut up forever!" (to Nagito)
"Don't go doubting Miss Sonia, you cretin! I'll put you and your hamsters six feet under!"
"Wh-What the heck...? This isn't a comic book, you know...!"
Chapter 4:

"Even if we go to the the new island...it's not like we're gonna find a way to escape this place, right?"
"Miss Sonia is a 100% pure princess who lives in a 100% pure castle!"
"I-I'm gonna believe you this time, so you better be telling the truth!"
"I-Idiot! I didn't get dumped! Why would I get dumped!? In fact, I'm really popular!"
"The truth is we don't know anything about you, so it's not my fault if I don't trust you..."
"Like that matters! It's not like I know the *real* you! Just like how...we didn't know anything about Mikan..."
"The possibility isn't zero... I do think that it's extremely close to zero but... ...It's never gonna be zero, no matter what."
"This chick... Even the inside of her head is full of drool...!"
"The longer you walk, the more calories you burn! So obviously we're more tired than you guys...!"
"I-I don't wanna die...in a place like this..."
"...Whatever man, let's just eat! Eating should come first right now!"
"I know I said I wanted to see his insides, but...not like this! This is just too much!"
"We've come so far... There's no way I can get sentimental at a time like this...! I feel awful for Nekomaru, but this is necessary if we're gonna find out the truth behind this case...!"
"Just so you all know, my repairs are perfect!"
"It's annoying but...if Miss Sonia is going, there's no way I'm not gonna go... Argh, but it's so damn annoying!"
"...Man, not only does that make perfect sense, but Miss Sonia's beautiful voice is just so soothing!"
"Give it ten years before you argue with Miss Sonia!"
"Aw! Your precious hammies don't know? But it's so simple! All righty then... I'll be the one who solves this mystery in a flash! Please watch me, Miss Sonia!"
"I'll definitely make her watch me! I'm gonna stand out till she notices me!"
"Isn't that right Miss Sonia!? If I'm a fucking pig, you can say so!"
Chapter 5:

"...Well, it doesn't matter. I made this to cheer you guys up anyway. And...as long as we have it, we won't forget, you know? About Nekomaru's sacrifice for us... We're standing here today...because of him. So, if we're gonna prevent something like that from ever happening again... I guess we gotta fight too, right!? We can't just keep running away!"
"Well, it doesn't matter! Stuff is just hard to say sometimes!"
"I-I don't really get it, but...when Miss Sonia talks like that, my blood starts to boil... ALL RIGHT! I'm getting pumped up! Let's charge our way to that new island!"
"Who cares!? It's not like he's our friend or anything!"
"Not really... Like...I feel like I learned stuff...but I also feel like I didn't learn anything..."
"I mean...you did say earlier...that you definitely can't accept killing... ...Isn't that right? I need your help to stop another killing... And didn't I just say I'm begging you!?"
"It's not like we want to do this! We're just doing it because Nagito's dangerous... He's planning to kill someone! This is just self-defense!"
"Yeah, there's only one thing we can do...! ...Pray."
"That smell was Miss Sonia...? Seriously? I guess princesses...you know... do that, too... My mind is blown..."
"Wh-What do you mean, "something"?! He's making us kill each other, you know!? What could be worse than that!?"
"Dammit...this dangerous place is the reason all this messed up stuff is happening... Leaving guns out in the open is totally dangerous! Seriously, they gotta take better care of these!"
"Why you can't believe it!? The guy who's making us do all this is the one saying it, you know!? That's why...I'll definitely survive... If we can really go home after we deal with this Class Trial... I'll definitely find out who the killer is, no matter what! Even if I have to pull out all the stops!"
"Why do you always side with Hajime...!? Do you have a crush on him or something!?"
"That's our Miss Sonia! You have such an amazingly high intellect! All righty then, let's think about this based on what Miss Sonia thinks! Is that okay, Miss Sonia?"
"B-But...it's just as Monokuma said... We've been betrayed over and over again so far, so... This might also be the same... Calling this a suicide takes too much for granted, and it's too convenient..."
"A blushing Miss Sonia is freaking awesome!!!"
"He tried to make us doubt each other...and tried to hide the truth behind his suicide."
"Then...it's okay to end it here, huh? That means we're done with this last Class Trial... And we can leave this island, right? It's okay to reach such a happy ending, right!?"
"This is friggin' annoying... But if you guys say you're doing it, there's no way I'm gonna back out!"
"I guess the lasting he could believe in was his own his talent..."
"By finding out who the traitor is, our hopes will shine even brighter by overcoming that despair... ...That's something he'd say."
"A-Are you telling us to trust his luck? Are you telling us to entrust our lives to that bastard!?"
"That bastard Nagito...he was screwed up till the very end. What was that "Praise me" crap...? After all the crap he put us through, there's no way we'd ever do that!"
Chapter 6:

"I don't care if we don't know anymore... If we can just go back to our normal lives, I'm fine... Hey, we can go home when this is over, right!? We can finally get off this damn island, right!?"
"Then...let's get this over with and go home..."
"Miss Soniaaa! Please don't leave me! I'll be in danger if I'm left alone!"
"If this is a game...are my words being displayed in a text window right now!? That's stupid! There's no way that's even possible!"
"A-As expected of Miss Sonia! Your knowledge of state-sanctioned torture is amaaaazing!"
"D-Don't be ridiculous! If I stay in this screwed up world any longer, I'm seriously gonna snap!"
"Just kill him right now! Then this nightmare can finally end!"
"Because we had that goal... We were able to endure those killings..."
"Don't you want to go back home!? I don't care if you want to stay here but don't drag us into it!"
"E-Even a monster like her has to follow the rules of the school trip!?"
"You still came here when you knew we had no choice of winning?"
"W-We still have to fight...? I...I thought we finally reached the end...!"
"W-We were forced to solve puzzles and riddles...just so you could show it off to the Future Foundation?"
"Man...this sure is getting annoying again... But...if you're saying you're gonna do it, there's no way I can back out now... If I don't have any place to go back to, I should at least protect this place no matter what!"
"...I didn't think it would end this easily."
"...People can't change that easily, y'know!"
"Hey! I'll never forget you guys, or others! You guys better remember me, too! My name is...Kazuichi Soda!"

The kanji for "Kazuichi" (和一) simply means "Peaceful One", while his surname (左右田) translates as "Rice Field of Dominance" (左右 sō being an expression literally meaning "Left & Right").
It could be that Kazuichi's name and surname are meant to have a bit of irony to them, considering that while he originally seemed to be very self-confident and carefree, he quickly turned hysterical following the appearance of Monokuma.
Kazuichi originally had black hair and wore glasses.
Despite becoming a mechanic who is an expert in vehicle machines, Kazuichi has motion sickness. This is most likely the reason why Kazuichi would rather take apart machines than ride them.
Kazuichi appears to know how to read English, telling Hajime what a sign written in English meant.
Kazuichi likes comic books and action movies and dislikes novels and horror movies.
It's revealed in one of Mahiru's Free Time Events that Kazuichi never washed his jumpsuit.
Even on Mean difficulty, Kazuichi's Rebuttal Showdown arguments only take a single strike to dispel in Chapter 4.
It was confirmed in Kazuichi's official spin-off manga titled "Super Danganronpa 2: Zetsubōteki Ingaritsu no Naka no Sōda Kazuichi" that he can indeed sew. He learned from watching his parents.
Kazuichi's English voice actor Kyle Hebert also voices Danganronpa V3's Kaito Momota.

Mahiru is a young woman in her early twenties, around 22 at youngest. Her virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as her 17-year-old self.She has dark red hair in a bob cut, olive green eyes, and a pale face with light freckles across her cheeks.

Mahiru's outfit consists of an olive-green school jumper with a plaid white-and-orange tie, which she knots around the collar of her uniform shirt. She wears dark green knee-high socks, and her shoes are a dark shade of forest green. Directly below the opening of the socks, there is a small orange symbol.

During her time at Hope's Peak Academy, she wore the standard uniform with black knee length socks and the same shoes.


Mahiru's full apperance.
Mahirudr3 transparent


Mahiru is an optimistic and sensible girl who is generally rather calm and unafraid to speak her mind. She initially comes off as confident but is later revealed to have self-esteem issues. Mahiru compares her photographs to those of her mother, a famous war photographer whose career led her to be absent from home for much of Mahiru's life. Her father was a very poor parent, leaving the responsibility of the housework entirely to her. When Hajime Hinata was being scolded by Mahiru, he likened it to being yelled at by his mom.

Mahiru has high expectations of men and is quick to be abrasive towards them. She is much more tolerant and friendly to girls. In the original Japanese, She refers the girls in her class with their first name and "-chan" honorifics, while she refers the guys casually with their last name only. The subjects of her photos are usually of girls and explains that she easily gets bored of photographing guys. She loves taking photos of people's smiles, and it's revealed in her Free Time Events that she recorded everything in Jabberwock Island so that they won't forget, except for the guys which she only recorded once every three days. Despite her love for photography, Mahiru believes her title is stupid compared to her classmates. She has been shown to dislike selfies.

Mahiru wants to help as many people as she can, but it'd be a mistake to call her a pushover. She doesn't hesitate to scold those who are rude to her and is also really good at taking care of people although never failing to complain about it. Mahiru is introduced as hating people who lack manners, though she later develops a very close friendship with Hiyoko Saionji. Because Mahiru is a reliable person who thinks of her friends and is prone to taking care of people, she has many friends outside of her own class as well.


Ultimate 
From a young age, Mahiru was inspired to become a photographer just like her mother who was a famous war photographer. Despite being young, she won numerous photographer awards and became famous for her skill at taking pictures of people.

Even though she is specialized in any photography category, Mahiru's most favorite picture object is taking pictures of smiling people. She could take a perfect shot of someone's smiles and according to Hajime, he never saw someone smile so bright and heartwarming until he saw Mahiru's photos. Despite that, she always shows her dislike towards boys as she doesn't take many pictures of them.

She started to like taking shots of people's smiles since she was a kid. Her mother always shows the pictures of smiling people to Mahiru, which she liked so much and made her eager to take pictures the same as her mother's wonderful shot.

Compared to her mother's work theme, Mahiru's theme is too conventional and many people don't really care to judge it and expected her to take different objects, as they believe that she could produce amazing results.

Mahiru's dream is to visit different countries to take many pictures of people smiling from different backgrounds.

In any kind of situation, Mahiru doesn't mind to keep snapping photos. She believes that photos depict everything, whether it's beautiful or horrible and it's the duty of a photographer to keep taking photos.

In other 
Mahiru's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Photographer
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「写真家」	Super High School Level Photographer
Français Ultime Photographe	Ultimate Photographer

Prior to the 
Before attending Hope's Peak Academy, Mahiru went to middle school with her friend Sato, who joins the Reserve Course when Mahiru goes to Hope's Peak Academy. She formerly attended Light Forest Institute before going to Hope's Peak.

While in Hope's Peak Academy, Mahiru befriended Hiyoko Saionji, Mikan Tsumiki, and Ibuki Mioda, and introduced them to Sato. In addition, she had also joined a photography club. During the girls' time together, they discovered a corpse in the music room. The body was later revealed belong to Fuyuhiko's sister, who was murdered by Sato because the girl had been bullying Mahiru. Sato and Mahiru covered up the evidence and blamed it on a pervert. They kept this a secret from the other girls and told them not to tell the police they had seen the body. A few days later, Sato was killed by Fuyuhiko. Mahiru was later seen crying on the floor. This part of her life was revealed in Monokuma's second motive, "Twilight Syndrome Murder Case".

Mahiru's Free Time Events reveal that she wanted to follow in her mother's footsteps as a photographer and gain her title of "Ultimate Photographer". She also had an unemployed father who didn't help Mahiru do the house chores when her mother was gone, and Mahiru says she likes to take care of him. Mahiru says that she feels inferior to the other students when comparing her talent to theirs. She also promised Hajime to give him her old camera and teach him how to take photos when they get off from the island.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak Academy 
Mahiru was one of the few students of the first group of Class 77th that attended the class along with Hiyoko, Mikan, Fuyuhiko, and Sonia Nevermind. Mahiru asked a strange person who entered their class that turned out to be their new homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome. When Chisa asked about her other classmates, Mahiru answered that attendance isn't a mandatory at the Academy and the Ultimates only need to sharpen their skills and pass the practical exam. Disappointed that so many students didn't attend the class, Mahiru and the others were forced by Chisa to search for their classmates.

First, they need to retrieve Nekomaru Nidai in the bathroom. Unfortunately for Mahiru and Hiyoko who stayed outside, they were inflicted by the explosion Nekomaru caused inside. Throughout the day, Mahiru and the others gathered almost all of their classmates.

Mahiru returned to her class after she and the others retrieved Nagito. Chisa tasked Mahiru and the others to clean their classroom while she off to pick up Chiaki Nanami and the Ultimate Imposter.

After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that Mahiru and the others had waited and that the classroom was clean. When the students once again bring up that they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
In the class, Mahiru and the others take cover on the right side of the classroom to hide from Akane Owari and Nekomaru's destructive training session. After the situation calmed down, Mahiru met with Chisa in the hallway. She told Chisa that everyone had been waiting for her in the classroom.

Chisa noticed the lunchbox that Mahiru brought. She said that she wanted to eat lunch together with her friend from the Reserve Course. Mahiru was surprised that her teacher already knew about her friend beforehand. After she left, Mahiru commented that Chisa is an odd teacher.

After she returned to the class, Mahiru and the others were busy playing games that Chiaki brought. Mahiru, Mikan, Sonia, and Chiaki played the Bomber Guy game together until Hiyoko and Teruteru Hanamura brought them food.

Mahiru and her classmates happily ate Teruteru and Hiyoko's nikujaga together. However, they were unaware of the fact that Hiyoko already added a bottle of aphrodisiacs within the food, making Mahiru and the others lose control of their body. She took "wild" selfies until she recovered sometime later in the nurse's office with everyone else.

In the next day, Chisa gathered her students in the classroom, announcing that she elected Chiaki as Mahiru and her classmates' class representative. Like the others, Mahiru gladly accepted her teacher's decision.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, Mahiru was taking photos of Hope's Peak's gate while she and her classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building.

Mahiru was walking to the Reserve Course building to visit Sato when she heard a commotion coming out from her friend's class. It turned out that Sato and Fuyuhiko's little sister, Natsumi were arguing about her. Mahiru moved to Sato's side, even though Natsumi continued to mock her. She commented that since in Photography Club, Natsumi's attitude never change. When she was about to hit Sato, Mahiru stopped her and took Sato out of the classroom.

Mahiru didn't like Sato's action even though it was used to protect her. She didn't know how Natsumi became envy to her since the only things that she did in the past was taking pictures that she likes. Mahiru smiled at Sato after she complimented her, inviting her to eat her hamburger steak together.

After she heard about the death of Natsumi, Mahiru asked about what has really happened to Sato in the park. Sato convinced her that she wasn't the one who killed Natsumi and forced her to believe in her. Eventually, Mahiru trusted her like she always does and left her since there was something that she needs to do.

Unfortunately, another sad bit of news struck Mahiru after she heard that Sato was murdered. She was very sad and lost to the point that she cried on Hiyoko's chest while her classmates watched on in worry.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
The deaths of Natsumi Kuzuryu and her best friend Sato affected Mahiru's morale in class greatly. She didn't pay attention to Chisa who announced the annual practical exam that would start tomorrow and instead checked her photos on her camera.

At the end of the episode, Mahiru and her classmates already heard the news of the bombing incident in the gym that involved one of her classmates, Nagito. Mahiru informed by Chisa that they should welcome back Nagito someday after his suspension lifted because of his concern for his friends, he went far to canceled the practical exam for them.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Mahiru and her classmates were in their classroom and held Chisa's welcome back party after her time in Reserve Course ended half a year after Nagito's suspend. She greeted her teacher and informed that the grown-up Hiyoko who was mistaken by Chisa as the original's big sister that she hit her growth spurt during her time at Reserve Course.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful 
After clearing up their things from their first-year classroom, Mahiru and the rest of the class have moved to the new classroom within the new school building.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
When Gundham Tanaka brought a bear into their classroom, Mahiru was surprised and asked several times why there was a bear in their classroom. Suddenly, she noticed Hiyoko placed a white flower on Nagito's desk and was told that it was "the first anniversary of Nagito's death". Mahiru reminded Hiyoko that Nagito isn't dead but has just been suspended. When Gundham's bear ate treats held by Kazuichi Soda and Teruteru, Mahiru once again asked why there was a bear in the class.

Mahiru later watched a riot caused by the Reserve Course students after finding out that Hope's Peak Academy used their money for human experiments from her classroom's window along with the rest of her classmates.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by 
After hearing from Nagito that Mikan is somewhere around the West District, Mahiru and the rest of the class go to search for her on the school grounds. Mahiru searches in a group with Hiyoko, Teruteru, and Fuyuhiko.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't 
Mahiru and the class reconvene at the school classroom, failing to find Mikan, they assume what Nagito told them was false information. Chiaki appears in the classroom with an unconscious Nagito, explaining that Chisa is in trouble, Mahiru and the class look concerned but agree to help. Nagito points out that there is a high risk and chance of them dying, Mahiru and the class begin to consider these concerns although Chiaki's speech convinces them otherwise.

The Ultimate Imposter then reveals his true identity, to Mahiru's shock although she accepts it quickly.

Mahiru and the class leave the Main Course building and head for Junko's lair, but upon heading out the building, the Reserve Course students notice them and seek to take them on in a battle to create placements on the Main Course. Nekomaru and Gundham fend them off and the rest of the class are able to reach the stairway leading to Junko's hideout underground.

Episode 10 - Smile at Hope in the Name of 
Mahiru and the others continue their approach, attempting to find and rescue Chiaki and Chisa. In the middle of this, they find Nekomaru and Gundham, and the two rejoin the group. Later on, they reach a large red door. Mikan presses a button to open the door and the class finds themselves in what seems to be the room that would be used for Class Trials later on.

The monitors on the walls of the room switch on and reveal Junko on the screen. After a bit of exposition, Junko starts Chiaki Nanami's Punishment while the rest of the class is forced to watch it. Everyone tries desperately to take their eyes off the screen but is unable to.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Mahiru, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. This recording effectively brainwashed Mahiru and her classmates, making them fall into despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Mahiru and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher, and started reading a letter she prepared. Mahiru and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa started to cry. The patterned swirled return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. After Hiyoko expressed she will use her dancing to spread joy, Mahiru voiced that she can 'take beautiful pictures of it' for her.

After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activated a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Mahiru and her class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak Academy's destruction.

Chisa's narration later revealed Mahiru helped to infect the world fall with despair.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
In a flashback, as a member of Ultimate Despair, Mahiru was taking photographs of Sonia who lead a brainwashed army with Monokuma helmets to spread her despair-inducing photographs to the world.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Hajime first finds Mahiru near the Lodge in Hotel Mirai. Mahiru angrily scolds Hajime for fainting at the beach. Mahiru stated that he, a male, should protect the girls. This statement embarrassed Hajime. Nagito introduced her to Hajime, stating that he heard Mahiru had won all kinds of photography awards, saying that she is best known for her characteristic portrait.

At first, Mahiru doesn't seem flustered like the other students when they first arrived at the island. In fact, she actually replies saying that she thinks Hajime and Nagito are decent stating that most of the others are weirdos. Mahiru is also the one who explains that after you collect all the Hope Fragments, they all get to leave off the island together. When Hajime starts freaking out over it she starts scolding him again for not paying attention. Mahiru than asks Hajime about his introduction, and after his introduction, Mahiru labels him "Unreliable Hajime". She tells both him and Nagito to man up and to do better.

Later when Usami tells everyone to head to the beach and the Ultimate Imposter asked everyone for their opinions on the island, Mahiru informs that the hotel is nice and she wishes they were staying there. After the discussion of Jabberwock Island, she states that she is a tad less worried now. She and a few other students receive Usami's presents happily by joining the others for swimming on the beach. She also became very excited when Usami says that they can have a party and later cheerfully suggests a campfire.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
The next morning, Mahiru attended the Ultimate Imposter's meeting at the hotel restaurant. All students had arrived, except Kazuichi, Mahiru then dragged Kazuichi with her to the hotel restaurant, in order to start the meeting. Having done so with Kazuichi, Mikan suddenly tripped into an awkward pose, Mahiru quickly helped her up, aside from Hiyoko's insults and Ibuki and Teruteru Hanamura's lewdness.

When the problems were solved, Byakuya started the meeting with a declaration that he'd lead the groups until they escaped from the island, which made Mahiru rather annoyed by his aggressive declaration, she preferred Sonia, mainly because she thought that Sonia's title as the "Ultimate Princess" made her fit to be a leader. But Sonia told her that her title is just for "decoration", Sonia told her that a leader would have protected his men, something Byakuya appeared willing to do, and after that, Mahiru accepted Byakuya as the leader.

During the party, Mahiru is willing to take her friends' picture. When the murder occurred, this photograph helps the students to deduce the person who set up the blackout plan.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
In the beginning of Chapter 2, Mahiru's friendship with Hiyoko blooms after she was willing to help Hiyoko solve her problem by taking a bath with her and teaching her how to tie her kimono obi. And after she heard that Nagito was tied in the Old Lodge, she tried to feed him breakfast but was frustrated with Nagito. She later forced Hajime to deliver Nagito's food.

Actually, Mahiru's had met with Nagito, who later told her to play the second motive, Twilight Syndrome Murder Case but she decided to not play it until she received a file filled with real-life photos from Fuyuhiko, Mahiru finally decided to play the game. There, she regains her memories and feels compelled to ask everyone involved in the game to talk to her about it.

Mahiru invites Fuyuhiko, Hiyoko, Ibuki, and Mikan to the beach house, but the latter two declined due to having a previous engagement - Sonia's girls-only swimming trip. When Peko heard Mahiru and Hiyoko's plan to discuss the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case, she quickly sent them a fake message.

Peko sent a message to Hiyoko (Peko sent the message using Mahiru's name) to meet Mahiru in Beach House at 2.00 a.m. and Peko sent a message to Mahiru (Peko sent the message using Hiyoko's name) at 2.30 a.m.

Mahiru came to the beach house right at 2.00 a.m., where she was met with Fuyuhiko and caught in an argument about the current motive. Just a second before Fuyuhiko went into action, Mahiru was then bludgeoned on the head by Peko on Fuyuhiko's behalf using a metal bat, incidentally recreating the final scene in the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case.

Peko quickly sent Fuyuhiko out from the crime scene and later set Mahiru's body on the door facing the road in order to prevent Hiyoko escaping from that door and put the Sun Witch ♪ Esper Ito's mask as her "calling card".

Hiyoko witnessed said murder and escaped the beach house via the front door. Mahiru's death is avenged thanks to the efforts of Hajime, Nagito, and Chiaki Nanami.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
Hiyoko made a shrine dedicated to Mahiru to recall her kindness and it remains in hotel restaurant from chapter 3 onwards.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
Currently, Mahiru is most likely comatose, just like most of her classmates. The survivors of the Killing Game are waiting for her and the rest of their classmates to wake up.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Mahiru returned as a part of Nagito's imaginary world following his death from the Neo World Program. Before class began in the morning, Mahiru and Hiyoko are seen happily conversing with each other.

Mahiru later attended Kazuichi's funeral due to him being murdered by the World Destroyer

Real-
After Nagito awoke from the simulation, he learned that all of his friends, including Mahiru, were alive and awake from the Neo World Program. He boarded the boat with the rest of Class 77-B and they all then headed for the Future Foundation Headquarters.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Mahiru returned in Side: Hope alongside the rest of the Class 77-B, who had been resurrected by Izuru Kamukura although Izuru was now combined with the personality and memories of Hajime. They arrived at the island where the Future Foundation's off-shore facility was located, having left from Jabberwock Island and proceeded by rescuing Byakuya Togami and Yasuhiro Hagakure from being trapped under rubble, they then began their fight against Ryota's brainwashed rescue squad troops, including the Former Super High School Level Elite Task Force.

Venturing into the underwater facility beneath the main building, Ibuki played on her electric guitar, to a crowd of brainwashed rescue squad troops, forcing them unconscious with the sheer pain of her music. She is saved by Mahiru who quashed the efforts of the former Ultimate Marksman who was taking aim for a shot at Ibuki, fortunately, the flash of Mahiru's camera caused the squad member temporary blindness, enabling Mahiru to remove her noise canceling headphones, causing her to fall unconscious. Mahiru and Ibuki share a high five once all squad members are unconscious.

Later, Mahiru helped convince Ryota to abandon his plan to brainwash the world. When Hajime began persuading him to join them in atonement, Mahiru happily accepted Ryota to the group. Upon leaving the broadcasting studio, Nagito held Makoto Naegi's hand and began to ramble about their comparable talents before being swiftly carried away by Nekomaru and Akane for speaking too long, Mahiru telling Nagito to 'leave it at that'.

Shortly afterward, Mahiru and the other Former Remnants of Despair shoulder the blame for the Final Killing Game in a broadcast to the Future Foundation, presenting themselves in their despair persona and relieving the organization of any wrongdoing.

With the battle won, Mahiru and the Class 77-B return to Jabberwock island by boat, she is last seen with Hiyoko, standing over Mikan who had once again fallen to the floor.


Middle School:

Mahiru was best friends with Sato since her former middle school Photography Club. Because Mahiru attended Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Photographer, Sato followed her there by joining the Reserve Course. Mahiru cared for Sato very much and always went to the Reserve Course building to eat lunch with her. Mahiru and Sato were friends with Mikan, Hiyoko, and Ibuki.

One day, Sato was tired of seeing Mahiru being bullied by Fuyuhiko's sister, Natsumi after she appeared to threaten Mahiru's life. When she attempted to stop her bullying actions in peace, Sato ended up murdering Natsumi in the music room. Mahiru knew this and promised she would protect her by destroying the evidence. When Fuyuhiko murdered Sato, Mahiru cried over her death.

It is implied Sato may have romantic feelings for Mahiru. While Mahiru is going to eat with Sato like usual, she happens to meet Chisa and blushes shyly as she explains to her that she's planning to eat with a friend. In a later scene, Sato insists that Mahiru has great talent and her photos will become famous (in the English dub, Sato describes it as the beauty Mahiru brings into the world), of which Mahiru is surprised and flattered. The two of them happily talk about the food, both of them appearing quite joyful. In the English dub, Natsumi also mocked Sato's behavior towards Mahiru by calling her "lovesick". Within this implication, Sato's feelings appear to be one-sided, though this has not been confirmed.

In Twilight Syndrome Murder Case, when Mahiru (Girl D) goes to Sato (Girl E) to talk about the murder, Sato assumes Mahiru is going to confess her love to her which further implies Sato's potential romantic feelings.

Natsumi 
Mahiru and Natsumi shared the same photography class, but for some unknown reason, (most likely due to Mahiru's photos being better than Natsumi's) Natsumi started bullying Mahiru. Natsumi mockingly called her goody-two-shoes, which might imply that as a yakuza she also disliked Mahiru's highly different nature. While they both attended Hope's Peak Academy, she even began to threaten Mahiru's life (though most likely it was only talk) and as a result, she was murdered by Sato.

Despite the way Sato treated her, Mahiru did not seem to hold much grudges against her, at least not openly. She told Sato she shouldn't fight nor talk so harshly with Natsumi, seemingly either preferring to ignore Natsumi or at least try to be civil with her. She disliked to see the other two fighting and at times appeared afraid of Sato.

Class 77-B:
Hiyoko 
Even though Mahiru is the same age as Hiyoko, she treats her as a younger sister, such as helping her with her clothing and taking baths with her. She was the only one that Hiyoko referred with respect. Mahiru can sometimes be annoyed with Hiyoko as she is being constantly dragged around by her, but is very patient with her.

Later, it's revealed that Hiyoko was one of Mahiru's best friends during her time at Hope's Peak Academy as well, Mahiru stating she loved her as well and accepting Hiyoko calling her "Big Sis". Despite their friendship, Mahiru was involved in Hiyoko's mischievous plot which included aphrodisiacs. Not only that but Mahiru also dislikes Hiyoko's rude remarks about others and scolded her for it. An example is Hiyoko presuming Nagito being "dead" due to his suspension, which in reality, Nagito still remains alive during his suspension. Hiyoko later comforted Mahiru after Sato's death.

After the events of the Tragedy and Killing School Life had ended, and Mahiru and Hiyoko awakened from their comatose state, they are seen happily chatting together, and later celebrate on the ship together with Mikan and Ibuki.

In Danganronpa 3 relationship chart, Hiyoko tells Mahiru that she loves her, and Mahiru replies that she loves Hiyoko too.

According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Hiyoko's school memories with Mahiru are very precious to her, explaining why she became close with Mahiru even after losing her memories in the Neo World Program.

Mikan 
Mikan was another one of Mahiru's best friends before the Tragedy. Mahiru addressed Mikan as Mikan-chan, and was one of the few in their class who called Mikan by her first name.

Mahiru is aware of how shy Mikan tends to be, and is very gentle with her, unlike Hiyoko. Much like everyone else, Mikan's clumsiness surprises Mahiru, who notes that the way Mikan falls into embarrassing poses takes "skill", although she shows the most concern for Mikan. Mahiru was usually the one who tried to cheer Mikan up after she fell in a compromising pose and told her to be careful next time. Mahiru even yelled at Fuyuhiko for making threats to Mikan. Mikan, although really shy around her, seems to like Mahiru, and shows extreme sadness over her death in Chapter 2, even going as far as to blame herself for not accepting Mahiru's invitation.

It was also shown that Mahiru cared for Mikan during their times at Hopes Peak Academy when Mahiru took a photo of Ibuki, Mikan, and Hiyoko to cheer sad Mikan up after Hiyoko yelled at her for being late. Mahiru defended Mikan and tells Hiyoko to stop scaring Mikan after they discover Natsumi's corpse. After the events of the Tragedy and Killing School Life had ended, Mahiru is seen celebrating with Mikan, along with Hiyoko and Ibuki. Mahiru even approaches Mikan later on, and the two are seen talking together.

Ibuki 
Ibuki was another one of Mahiru's best friends before the Tragedy. Like she does all her friends, Ibuki called Mahiru by her first name. In return, Mahiru addressed her as Ibuki-chan.

Mahiru seems to be weirded out at times by Ibuki's eccentric behavior but still considers her a friend. She is deeply disturbed by Ibuki's odd taste in music, seen covering her ears when she heard Ibuki play at Hope's Peak Academy. Ibuki likes Mahiru, and feels guilty about Mahiru's death in Chapter 2 because she didn't accept her invitation to talk.

After the two awaken from the Neo World Program, Mahiru saves Ibuki when a brainwashed sniper attempts to kill her, causing Ibuki to happily high-five her. Later, they celebrate together on the ship along with Mikan and Hiyoko after the battle has ended.

Kazuichi 
Mahiru sees Kazuichi as being very unreliable. She seems extremely disappointed that he tried to run away in Chapter 1, and forcibly drags him back. In one of her Free Time Events, she was upset knowing that Kazuichi never washes his jumpsuit. She states in his official relationship chart, that she wonders if he has any tact.

Fuyuhiko 
Mahiru often scolded the Ultimate Yakuza when he would mouth off to his classmates, resulting in arguments between the two that had to be broken up by the others, usually Nagito or Hajime.

Later on, during Chapter 2, Fuyuhiko was invited by Mahiru to go to the Beach House on the second island to discuss the current motive. But they got into another argument, this time, the argument was stopped by Peko who killed Mahiru in the same fashion as Sato.

Reserve Course:
Hajime 
While it was never shown in the main storyline, but in her Free Time Events, it's implied that Mahiru has romantic feelings towards Hajime. When Mahiru took a candid photograph of him, Mahiru didn't want to delete it even though Hajime told her to delete it. After revealing that she likes the candid of him, Mahiru blushed and ran away, saying that she needs to go somewhere.

In her last Free Time Events, Mahiru asked Hajime to take pictures of her so she can see how Hajime saw her. She said that she liked Hajime's shot as much as her mother pictures she did. Mahiru also added that she would give him her old camera.

In her Island Mode ending, in thanks for Hajime helping her find joy in her photography again, she will give him her old camera saying if he's going to be by her side then he'll need at least one camera too. Mahiru was highly implied about to confess her feelings to Hajime before she decided to stay silent, watching the ocean with both Hajime and Mahiru being silent. In the end, Hajime vowed to protect and escape together with Mahiru.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Mahiru Koizumi
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Mahiru in order to learn more about her. If he gives Mahiru a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Mahiru will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Mahiru's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Mahiru's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567X
Mahiru Koizumi's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
War photographer	Nurse	Clothes designer
SLR camera	Disposable camera	Polaroid camera
Don't talk to the subject	Walk one step forward	Take it as fast I can
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 032 Silver Ring DR2 Present 054 Kirlian Photography DR2 Present 082 Japanese Tea Cup DR2 Present 102 Rose In Vitro DR2 Present 107 Compact Costume

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Mahiru grants the following skills:

Auto Focus	Automatically target the weak spot during concentration.
Effective during the Nonstop Battle.	4 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Mahiru Koizumi

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"Let's see... I'm Mahiru Koizumi. I'll be counting on you from now on."
"I'm eager to get along with everyone so we can get off this island, but I was worried things wouldn't go well."
"Sorry to disappoint you, but I've already made a mental note to remember you as "Unreliable Hajime". It's gonna be tough for you to change my mind. You better man up and try even harder to do your best!"
Chapter 1:

"Hey, straigten up a little more! Shouldn't a man like you be embarrassed to walk like that?"
"She's beyond being just a clumsy girl. That fall of hers was like a magic trick or something..."
"Hey! You may talk like you're tough, wiseguy, but you wouldn't be here unless you were scared, too! I guess even a big bad yakuza like you must've been scared of that monster, huh?"
"I had a lot on my mind, and I don't know if I'll ever get the answers I'm looking for..."
"Even cleaning has its limits..."
"E-Everyone, calm down! We gotta stay calm in a situation like this!"
"I don't have enough confidence to investigate the body...and it's not like I have the brains either... I'll just stay by Byakuya's side. That's the least I can do. That's what guard duty is, right?"
"Something like this...is the only thing we can do in order to stay alive..."
"I don't like it either but...we won't survive...if we don't go through with it."
"Getting cheered up by a boy isn't like me at all!"
"Anyway...I won't dwell on it for now. I can't become a burden to everyone. You better work hard on your investigation too! How much longer are you planning to stand around? Do you understand what's going on? You gotta find out how Byakuya died."
"You... How can you say something so irresponsible...!? We've been doing our best to investigate this murder, even though we don't want to, just to survive!"
"C-Complaining won't get us anywhere! If you're really a man, then man up for god's sake! We've come this far... We have no choice but to keep moving forward..."
"Hey, weren't you guys taught any basic manners!? Or were you raised in a locker room!?"
"Hey, what's the deal? Don't butt into other people's business, especially if you didn't do any investigating."
"It's scary but...doing our best is our only option. There's no way I'm doing what Nagito said."
Chapter 2:

"Of course! Escaping from this island is our main goal!"
"Jeez, this goes for Fuyuhiko too, but...you boys should really get a hold of yourselves!"
"S-So what? Don't say things that don't make sense!"
"Even though I think what Teruteru did was stupid, it'd be bad if I allowed Monokuma to influence me, too. That's right, I'm never gonna follow Monokuma's orders...!"
"I know you like video games, but if you don't get out in the sun more, you'll get sick. And you know, it's important to get to know the others better too! So let's play games outside. I'm sure they have stuff like jump rope and bamboo-copter at the supermarket. Then you can play with us after breakfast. Good deeds should be done quickly, as they say."
"Jeez, all this fighting... I can tell it's not going to be easy in the future..."
"But regardless, I will never kill anyone. I mean, it's impossible."
"N-No. It's fine. It's important that everyone gets along anyway! Just tell them I'm not feeling well... Plus...it doesn't have to be today. There's...always tomorrow..." (to Ibuki)
"The fact that your sister was killed is terrible... It's unfortunate...but... You shouldn't have killed that girl! You had no right do to that! Nobody has the right to judge others for their crimes! Revenge...is just wrong!"
Chapter 5:

"48805:/:lf~|@;:wanttomakeamends;l"----?*saycheeseL68(smile:$2243+Leveryo*ne" (Mahiru's cottage post fifth-trial)
"It's so unreliable to be freaked out like that... You're a man, aren't you?"

Her last name literally translates to "little fountain", while her first name means "midday", or "broad daylight".
Mahiru shares the same birthday with Aoi Asahina from Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.
Mahiru does not enjoy taking selfies because she finds them extremely embarrassing.
Similar to the victim in the second chapter of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc, Mahiru was killed instantly via blunt force trauma to the head.
In Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc it's revealed that Mahiru and Sato had gone to the same middle school prior to attending Hope's Peak Academy, Mahiru appeared to have no memory of her friend while in the Neo World Program. Because of this, it is possible that all of Mahiru's memories of Sato were erased for unknown reasons.
Kodaka revealed that Mahiru would be a good protagonist of a Danganronpa 3 spinoff due to her serious personality. She would probably think about how she and the former members of Ultimate Despair have to carry their sin.

Mikan is a young woman in her early twenties, around 22 at youngest. Her virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as her 17-year-old self.

She has long, choppy, dark purple hair that is cut unevenly as a result of bullying. She has light, greyish-purple eyes. There is a beauty mark under her left eye's corner. She wears a nurse uniform which consists of a pale pink, collared short-sleeved shirt with puffed sleeves.

Mikan wears a white apron over this which is tied behind her neck with a ribbon. There are two red lines on the left side of the apron, one going down to her middle and another short red line perpendicular to the vertical one. A short pale blue pleated skirt is visible under her apron. Mikan has bandages wrapped around most of her left arm and right leg. Additionally, she has a band-aid on her left kneecap and wears white socks and shoes.

During her high school years, she wore Hope's Peak Academy uniform. She had a band-aid on her right cheek and bandages wrapped around her right leg and left knee.

As the Ultimate Despair, she wears white nurse clothing along with a hat. She has bandages wrapped around her right arm and left leg. She wears one elbow length medical glove on her left arm, as well as a glove on her right hand that only goes up to her bandaged wrist.




Mikan is an extremely meek, paranoid and fragile individual who suffers from hazardously low self-esteem as a result of severe abuse and bullying. This has resulted in many behavioral symptoms such as being easily intimidated, breaking down and crying with little provocation, profusely apologizing and nervously stuttering while speaking. She constantly worries about annoying, boring or offending others, going so far as asking Hajime Hinata if it would be alright for her to remember his name when introducing herself. This delicate persona makes her a natural target for Hiyoko Saionji's instinctively predatory and cruel personality. However, as the Ultimate Nurse, Mikan tends to act much more confident while doing her job, and she is decently knowledgeable and intelligent. Her medical knowledge proves to be useful in murders, as she provides autopsy reports, including information on the corpse's state, details on injuries, cause of death, and time of death. Furthermore, she sometimes gives (often unwanted) health advice to others concerning things like eating and sleeping, and may occasionally start to describe things like bodily functions in way too much detail in her wish to give the other students' information on the subject at hand. Unlike most students, Mikan has even mentioned that she likes being on Jabberwock Island, because her classmates acknowledge her and her talent makes her useful.

Perhaps because of her high understanding of human physiology, Mikan is shown to be very skilled at reading people's faces, but she tends to over-analyze them and is quick to assume that she is disliked by those around her. She generally wants to be liked by and help other people, but her utter lack of confidence and wish to not be a bother causes her to rarely assert herself or state her feelings openly; if she feels the need, she will more than likely ask for permission from her peers to do so. This is exacerbated considerably during Class Trials, where despite her talent being incredibly useful for solving a murder, she will rarely ever speak up by her own accord. Since her social intuition is generally poor, if there is an awkward pause in a conversation, she will immediately begin to panic and apologize, believing it to be her fault. However, despite lacking many basic social skills, Mikan does actively attempt to gel with her surroundings by altering aspects of her conduct to suit what she projects as the thoughts of her peers. Notably, she appears exaggeratedly clumsy and often ends up in embarrassing and revealing poses, leading her to apologize profusely, though it's been heavily implied and even pointed out by Hiyoko that Mikan does these poses on purpose in order to gain attention and pity. Because of her insistently klutzy and cloying personality, even for all the pity and leeway she generally receives from her kinder classmates, many of them do still see her as somewhat off-putting, incompetent or irritating, causing them to distance themselves from her rather than outright mistreat her.

Because of the severe abuse she has incurred in the past, Mikan is very awkward and has a warped perception of both positive and negative social interaction. When treated with any sort of individual respect or sympathy, her first response is most often outright confusion, and sometimes assuming she has done something wrong. When first becoming friends with Hajime, she offers him to beat, strip, draw on or do other bad things to her, and states that she has done so multiple times with previous schoolmates so that they won't hate her and will continue to associate with her. She relates this to a belief that being ignored is even worse than being abused, thinking that the people who don't bully her don't care about her existence at all, a prospect that scares her much more. If someone treats her well and is outwardly kind to her in the long-term, she tends to become obsessive and cling to them, similar to the behavior of a stalker, which is interpreted as being extremely creepy (by Hajime at least), showing that she is unable to compartmentalize and reciprocate those positive feelings in a normal, healthy way. This was taken full advantage of by her supposed beloved, who turned that affection into a pathological, slave-like subservience.

By defaulting to a state of unnaturally intense submissiveness and self-deprecation as a defense mechanism, Mikan is somewhat prone to bizarre outbursts, where the repressed elements of her personality rapidly surface for brief moments before burying themselves again, usually followed by an apology for her erratic behavior. These traits include deep-seated resentment for her abusers, general frustration over how she is treated, various sadistic or otherwise disturbing obsessions, an intense yearning for control, attention and sympathy, as well as her sexual urges. During Chapter 2, she has a fleeting moment of lashing out angrily and shouting "you are done for" and "you're not gonna get away now that I've caught you" at no one in particular and seemingly completely out of nowhere, and then tries to write it off by claiming that she says nonsensical things when she's nervous. During one of the Class Trials, she also mentions that she finds a sudden urge to kill quite understandable (implying she has had such fantasies of enacting revenge on her abusers), and in Island Mode she mentions that she enjoys horror movies because of all the blood and helpless victims, especially appearing to enjoy bully characters getting what's coming for them. She also has a disturbing liking for syringes and shots, repeatedly offering them to Hajime when she gains access to the Pharmacy, and she even chases him around attempting to inject him with one during a Free-Time Event. She is also mentioned to creepily stare at Hajime after their free time together and he sometimes had a feeling that she is forever watching him from somewhere, indicating that she may have stalked Hajime. In spite of her often tightly pent-up demeanor, Mikan also shows by far the most sexual desire among all of Class 77-B's female students, particularly for Hajime. When either extremely tired or inflicted with the Despair Disease, respectively, she ends up cradling his head and falling asleep on top of him on two occasions, as well as unsubtly implying she would like to have sex with him through some brief, coy remarks. Out of the whole class, the blatancy of her sexual innuendos is only rivaled by Teruteru Hanamura.

The dichotomy of Mikan's two-faced psyche is best represented by her mixed motivations for becoming the Ultimate Nurse. Directly contrasting her abusers, Mikan sincerely wants to help those who have endured physical harm, and generally wants to assist and participate in the group. However, she has also admitted that she occasionally relishes the power she holds over the sickly, helpless people who have no choice but to rely on her and listen to her to survive. While acting as a nurse allows her to feel useful, something she doesn't normally feel, it also indulges her selfish urge to assert absolute dominance over something, a sensation she essentially never feels otherwise given her general docility. In her Island Mode ending, she openly contemplates rendering Hajime an invalid so he can stay with her forever, but he convinces her that he'll stay regardless, and thus doing so would be unnecessary. This shows Hajime's deft understanding of how Mikan manically depends on having other people around despite seeing herself as undesirable company, as well as his empathy toward her.

Due to a specific strand of the Despair Disease known as the Remembrance Disease, Mikan recovers her lost memories during Chapter 3, reverting her back to a Remnant of Despair, accompanied by a drastic personality shift which gradually reveals itself as she begins to be suspected as the blackened during the Class Trial. All of her repressed, negative and selfish traits take dominance within her, causing her to become angry, manipulative and dangerous, and in a private moment with Hajime, somewhat seductive. She is highly embittered and clearly aware of her maltreatment, and in distinct opposition to before, boldly calls the others out on it, even those who defended her in the trial but otherwise ignored her day-to-day. She angrily questions why everyone hates and bullies her, and blames her classmates exclusively for her evil deeds and transition into Despair, taking advantage of their pity in an attempt to escape her accusations all the while. Before her remembrance, Mikan was primarily self-effacing and would adapt to her environment for the benefit of others and to reduce conflict; but once the Despair Disease sets in, she is cunning and deceptive purely to preserve herself, even at the cost of the others' lives. As she turns increasingly violent and unstable, her apologizing habit still persists, repeatedly asking to be forgiven in a way that seems to be reflexive or like a mantra, but while also staunchly denying her charges to the point of angrily pulling her hair when accused. When finally backed into a corner and revealed as the culprit, Mikan ultimately finds solace in her beloved, and says that her motive for murder was simply her affection for them. She claims to no longer care about anything except that person, believing they were the only one who ever loved and accepted her. In Danganronpa 3, Mikan's brainwashed Ultimate Despair form has a resemblance to a sadistic horror nurse, and it's indicated that she tortures her victims with her medical equipment and knowledge, as well as sexually harasses them.

After awakening from her coma, Mikan reverts to her original temperament, and Junko's brainwashing is undone. She is shown to feel guilty for her actions as an Ultimate Despair and decides to atone along with her other classmates. Notably, she is seen capable of fighting, as she rescued Hiyoko wielding a massive syringe. She also independently took care of Kyoko and saved her life. While obviously still very insecure, she now appears happier and closer with her classmates, and even has a friendlier relationship with Hiyoko.


Ultimate 
Because there was no one to take care of her wounds, Mikan learned to take care of herself from a very young age. As she became more and more skilled in this area, she took an interest in nursing, realizing that it gave her a feeling of control over sick and injured people - as weaker people would have to depend on her completely, and their lives would be in her hands.

As the Ultimate Nurse, Mikan's medical knowledge proves to be useful in murders. She provides autopsy reports, including information on the corpse's state, details on injuries, the cause of death, and time of death. Furthermore, she sometimes gives (often unwanted) health advice to others. She also appears to be more confident while she is nursing. Unlike most students, she likes being on Jabberwock Island, because her classmates acknowledge her and her talent makes her useful.

As talented as she is, Mikan's abilities as a nurse have limits; she doubted she could keep Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu alive due to the injuries he sustained during Peko Pekoyama's execution. Nonetheless, her abilities are highly effective, as she was able to successfully revive Kyoko Kirigiri after the Final Killing Game, where she was near-death after using Seiko Kimura's medicine to survive her NG Code Poisoning.

In other 
Mikan's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Nurse
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「保健委員」	Super High School Level Health Committee Member
Français Ultime Infirmière	Ultimate Nurse
Abilities 
Expression 
Like Hajime said, Mikan is very perceptive. She is very skilled at reading other people's faces. She knew what Hajime was thinking when she examined his face in the fourth Free Time Events. Mikan could easily know what others would think about her based on their actions and their reactions. However, due to her very low self-esteem, Mikan overanalyzes and assumes others hate her if she notices even a slight indication of boredom, hesitation or annoyance in others. She also uses her perceptiveness to tell when and how someone is ill.


Prior to the 
Mikan had a harsh life as a child. She was physical, emotionally, and possibly sexually abused by people in her family and in other places, like school. Among other things, she mentioned being splashed with water, smeared with mud, and getting burned with cigarettes. The bullies would beat her up, cut her hair, draw on her, use her as a target for dart games, make her responsible for their debts, and tell her to eat bugs and make interpretations of certain animals. She was even told to strip at times. In addition, she didn't have any friends.

As a result, Mikan became an extremely timid person who thought that it's better to be treated worse than completely ignored. She feared loneliness and lack of attention more than the abuse and let people do whatever they wanted with her.

Because there was no one to take care of her wounds, Mikan learned to take care of herself from a very young age. As she became more and more skilled in this area, she took an interest in nursing, realizing that she could have a feeling of control over sick and injured people ー as the weaker people, they would have to depend on her completely and their lives would be in her hands.

She previously attended Lapis Lazuli Girl's High School before enrolling in Hope's Peak Academy as the Ultimate Nurse, in Class 77-B. Her life at least seemed to get better, and she befriended her first friends ー Ibuki, Hiyoko, Mahiru Koizumi, and Sato. During their time together, they discovered a corpse in the music room. This was later revealed to be Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu's sister, who was murdered by Sato. A few days later, Sato was killed by Fuyuhiko. Hiyoko suggested that Mikan enter the classroom, where Mikan found Sato's corpse. This part of Mikan's life was revealed in "Twilight Syndrome Murder Case".

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak 
Mikan arrived late and rushed to her classroom, making her trip in an embarrassing pose. Her new homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome comforted her and asked why there were only five students that attended the class. Chisa furious after Mahiru explained to her that most of the students didn't go to the class because they didn't have to. Mikan became depressed after Chisa referring them as "rotten oranges" (腐ったみかん, kusatta mikan), which was misunderstood by her, thinking that Chisa insulted her personally. Mikan and the others were forced by her teacher to set out to search for her classmates.

In a men's bathroom, Mikan screamed Jurrasic Park! when she heard Nekomaru Nidai's heavy voice, referenced to a particular scene in the movie. Throughout the day, Mikan and the others were able to retrieve most of their classmates. Returned to their class, Mikan worried about Hiyoko's condition but in return, Hiyoko insulted her as a rotten orange. Chisa went to retrieve two remaining students, asked her students who have been gathered to clean their classroom. When she took the cleaning equipment, Mikan tripped in another embarrassing pose.

After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that Mikan and the others had waited and that the classroom was clean. When the students once again bring up that they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
Mikan treated her teacher after she fainted due to the stress she faced when Akane Owari and Nekomaru were in their training session.

Later after they repaired their classroom, Mikan and the others were playing games that Chiaki brought. When she, Sonia Nevermind, Mahiru, and Chiaki played Bomber Guy games together, Mikan clumsily dropped bombs on the entire area.

During the break, Mikan and her classmates happily ate Teruteru Hanamura and Hiyoko's nikujaga together. However, to their unaware, Hiyoko already poured a bottle of aphrodisiacs within the food, making Mikan and the others lost their body control. Mikan held Peko Pekoyama from reaching Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu, begging her to lend her sword's "tip".

After the "aphrodisiacs incident", everyone treated in the nurse's office. Mikan was impressed by Chiaki's effort earlier, protecting Hiyoko from Teruteru's attack. In the next day, Mikan agreed with Chisa's decision to elect her as the class representative.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, Mikan and her classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building. She was worried after Kazuichi Soda was bitten by one of Gundham Tanaka's hamsters. Later that day, Mikan and her classmates were shown on the school's park. She and Sonia played with a rabbit there.

Several days later, Mikan looked worried at Mahiru who was crying on Hiyoko's chest after she heard the news of her friend's death from Reserve Course, Sato.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
The two-in-row murder cases of Natsumi Kuzuryu and Sato affected Mikan's class, still showing no spirit when Chisa announced the annual practical exam that will start on the next day. Not only that, she and her classmates must bid their farewell to their beloved teacher Chisa as she transferred to the Reserve Course after the bombing incident involving one of her classmates, Nagito.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Mikan is part of Chisa's welcome back party. She was dismayed when Hiyoko told Chisa that now that she had grown, she can bend Mikan's bones in any direction she wanted.

The Ultimate Imposter, disguised as Ryota Mitarai, later found Mikan and brought her to care for the real Ryota Mitarai. The imposter revealed to her that they have no identity of their own and that they and Ryota made a deal that they would assume his identity, and live life while Ryota worked tirelessly on his anime.

Mikan assumed that the imposter wouldn't let her leave alive now that she knew their secret, and thought that they wanted to rape her. However, the imposter gently told her that they trusted her. Mikan started crying and thanked them, saying no one has ever been so nice to her. The imposter advised her to toughen up since they will be upperclassmen starting tomorrow.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
Mikan is seen packing with the rest of her class as they prepare to move to a new school building. She comments on Fuyuhiko and Peko talking with each other, saying that she thinks it's wonderful.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
Mikan has a private conversation about Ryota with the Ultimate Imposter in a room, where they explained that Ryota has disappeared and left a note. Mikan timidly offered to check if Ryota came back for his belongings and goes to his apartment. There she met with Mukuro Ikusaba who gave her a cold stare.

Mikan found herself tied, gagged, and blindfolded by Mukuro who took her to Ryota. Ryota freed Mikan's gag and revealed that he's been working on his animations in a private room, courtesy of Junko, a blonde haired girl who introduced herself to Mikan. Junko showed Ryota's anime to Mikan, who is moved to tears after watching it. Junko and Mukuro left the two in the room, where Mikan decides to stay with Ryota to watch after him and gave the Ultimate Imposter a note assuring them that she is fine and is helping Ryota.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by Chance 
Junko made Mikan watch a brainwashing video containing the recording of the first Mutual Killing game using Ryota's abilities to influence people's minds, thus turning her into an Ultimate Despair. At the beginning of the episode, Mikan is seen massaging Junko's legs. Mikan said to Junko that her classmates are wonderful, especially her homeroom teacher, Chisa, and her class's representative, Chiaki Nanami.

Later, she tries to seduce Ryota, only to be kicked away by Junko.

Upon Nagito's return to the 78th class, he explains that he saw Mikan heading for the western district on the school grounds. Upon Chiaki and Nagito's arrival to Junko's hidden lair beneath the Izuru statue, Mikan is nowhere to be found.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Mikan meets up with the class carrying a tired and potentially injured Peko, she appears to seem quite normal, wanting to help her classmates in saving Chisa. However, once they arrive at Junko's lair beneath Izuru Kamkura's statue, she stalls Chiaki midway down the stairway as the rest of the class continue on, Mikan then pushes a confused Chiaki through a secret hatch leading to an unknown corridor.

Episode 10 - Smile at Hope in the Name of Despair 
Mikan catches up with the class who have continued on ahead through the corridor, Fuyuhiko inquires as to where Chiaki is, Mikan explaining she twisted her ankle and is waiting in one of the nearby rooms to recover. Mahiru and Hiyoko are both pleased Mikan was able to help Chiaki.

Nekomaru and Gundham eventually appear from a dark room to the class' surprise. Gundham thanking Mikan, Nekomaru explains that if it wasn't for Mikan messaging them, they would have never been able to find the rest of the class.

Mikan, now leading the group, approaches a large red door at the end of the corridor, pressing a button which opens the door, the class follows her inside. As Chiaki Nanami's Punishment is being broadcast to them inside the room on multiple monitors, the class begins to fall into despair, while most of them try to resist, Mikan becomes excited that the video is uniting them all. As the broadcast ends, Mikan and the class fell silent, now Ultimate despair, their eyes have become a patterned spiraling swirl.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Mikan and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher and started reading a letter she prepared. Mikan and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa started to cry. The patterned swirled return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. Mikan expressed that she can 'send wonderful medicines to the world's hospitals'.

After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activates a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Mikan and her class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak Academy's destruction.

Chisa's narration later revealed Mikan helped to infect the world with despair.

During the 
The members of Ultimate Despair did all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world.

After the death of Junko, the remnants of the Ultimate Despair attached some of her body parts into their own bodies in order to make her survive within them and feel closer to her. They then agreed to an insane plan to have AI Junko take over their bodies, so they could resurrect their leader.

The remnants of Despair are later found by the Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by AI Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
At the beginning of the episode, in the flashback, Mikan as a member of Ultimate Despair was about to jabbed one of her tied patient's eye until Seiko of the Future Foundation stopped her, ultimately led into her capture.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!? 
When Mikan met Hajime for the first time, she became so nervous and confused about how to start the conversation with him that she ended up crying, revealing that she even prepared 5000 different ways to start the conversation only for her to fail.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
Mikan accidentally tripped when the students were gathering in the Restaurant, amusing Teruteru and Ibuki verily. Later, she also tripped during the blackout in the Ultimate Imposter's party.

After the discovery of the Ultimate Imposter's corpse, Mikan was initially terrified. However, she managed to gather up the courage and made use of her talent as the Ultimate Nurse by examining the body.

Mikan played a key role in the first trial by pointing out that the Ultimate Imposter was stabbed by a sharp implement about five millimeters in diameter, ruling out the possibility of the glow-in-the-dark knife being the murder weapon, and therefore saving the students from voting for the wrong person as the culprit in the first trial.

When Teruteru was determined to be the culprit behind the Ultimate Imposter's death, Hajime used the accident where Mikan accidentally tripped during the party as decisive evidence to prove Teruteru's guilt.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
Mikan agreed to attend Sonia's girls only party along with the other girls, excluding Mahiru and Hiyoko. She and Ibuki arrive at the diner, the original meeting point of the party, and there they meet with Kazuichi and Hajime who later join the party as well. While she waits for the others at the diner, Akane arrived, injured from her practice session with Nekomaru. Mikan immediately takes her into the bathroom to treat her.

Mikan played another major role by examining the body of Mahiru and verifying that her death by blunt force trauma was instantaneous, proving that her body was moved by somebody else to block the Beach House door. It was also revealed that she was the playable character, in fact, Girl A of the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case, implying that she was close friends with Hiyoko, Ibuki, Mahiru, and possibly Sato during her time at Hope's Peak.

The culprit turned out as Peko Pekoyama, Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu's hitwoman. After Peko's execution, Mikan tried to save Fuyuhiko, who had interfered in the execution and injured during the process, but Monokuma ended up having to save him by taking him to the Hospital on the third island after being forced by Monomi.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
In the next day during the group investigation in the third island, Mikan found Fuyuhiko who was treated well and resting in the Hospital. Later, she joined Ibuki's Fuyuhiko welcome back party.

During the Despair Disease, Mikan treated Nagito fervently to make sure he won't die, staying awake for days on end to keep watch over him. During her stay at the hospital, while treating the sick, she contracted said disease and killed Ibuki by strangulation, to which Hiyoko accidentally became a witness of.

As a result, Mikan was forced to kill her as well by slitting Hiyoko's throat. During the third trial, Mikan's ability as an Ultimate Nurse backfires when Nagito reveals that Ibuki was not killed by hanging herself, but rather by being strangled according to the marks left on the rope. This reveals that Mikan lied when she did Ibuki's autopsy, as she told everyone that Ibuki died by hanging.

Hajime begrudgingly singles Mikan out as the murderer, to which many disagreed at first. Oddly, Nagito states that the culprit this time was someone he could not forgive, and the reason is later revealed to be because unlike the others, the culprit did not kill for a hope of escape, but for despair.

Once she is voted guilty, Mikan stops struggling and accepts her fate. Before that, though, Mikan tells Nagito that she did not murder for despair, but rather for the sake of the person she loves because they were the only one who accepted her for who she was.

Mikan was affected by despair disease, which led her to regain all of her memories and remember everything. Her personality changes not due to despair disease but just despair itself. She's also explained that the real name of 'World Ender' is 'Future Foundation' (although it wasn't). Besides it, she also knows who's the traitor that hides among the groups, but she refuses to tell and believed that the others would eventually know when the countdown end.

Just before her execution begins Mikan asks that person to forgive her for dying with the hope of meeting them again.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
Currently, Mikan is most likely comatose, just like most of her classmates. However, she and Nagito "died" in the program while knowing that it isn't real - according to Monokuma, this increases their chances of waking up.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Main article: Mikan Tsumiki (Illusion)
Real-
After Nagito awoke from the simulation, he learned that all of his friends, including Mikan, were alive and awake from the Neo World Program. He boarded the boat with the rest of Class 77-B and they all then headed for the Future Foundation Headquarters.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
At some point after the end of the Killing School Trip, Mikan and the rest of her comatose classmates were awakened by Hajime, whose personality had blended with Izuru Kamukura's due to his experiences in the Neo World Program. Purged of Junko's brainwashing, the now-former Remnants of Despair joined Hajime on a ship that took them to the ruins of the Future Foundation headquarters, where Ryota Mitarai was attempting to broadcast a "Hope Video" to brainwash the world into never feeling despair again.

Led by Hajime, Mikan and the former members of Class 77-B engaged Ryota's army of brainwashed Future Foundation soldiers in an attempt to reach the broadcasting tower where the Ultimate Animator was hiding. Venturing into the underwater facility beneath the main building, Mikan somehow procured a giant syringe, which she used to disable the former Ultimate Nailist who was threatening Hiyoko. Despite showing her usual abrasive attitude towards the Ultimate Nurse, Hiyoko reluctantly offered her gratitude for the timely assistance, bringing Mikan to joyful tears. After Ryota was talked down and the brainwashing video was disabled, Mikan attempted to speak with Makoto, only to be cut off by Nagito. She joined the rest of her friends in broadcasting a video in their "Ultimate Despair" personas, claiming responsibility for the recent chaos in the Future Foundation to conceal the truth of the Final Killing Game from the world, before returning to Jabberwock Island.

On the boat ride home, Mikan held up a drug vial labeled Antagonist, which Nagito realized that Seiko had made. Mikan explained that she had found someone who used the drug to save themselves from the NG Code Poisoning of the bracelets of the Final Killing Game, so she was able to revive them from a comatose state. It is shown later that the person whom she was referring to was Kyoko Kirigiri.


Main Article: Bye-Bye Ouchies!

Love Interest:
Junko 
While under the influence of the despair disease in Chapter 3, Mikan recovered her memories of school life. At the end of the trial that unveiled her identity as the culprit, she revealed that she did it for the sake of 'her beloved', claiming that they forgave and accepted her for who she was, in stark contrast to the maltreatment she had been exposed to her entire life, and that they would appreciate her actions if they were alive.

Mikan proceeds to ramble feverishly about how their love transcends the cruelty of her misdeeds, and how this person was a major factor in her drastic personality change. Due to her wording and the circumstances of her past, it is heavily implied that this person is Junko, who may have brainwashed her.

This is later confirmed in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc where their relationship is revealed. Mikan is brainwashed by Junko, and acted towards her in a way similar to Mukuro Ikusaba, only much more insane and unnatural. She is glad when Junko abuses her or gives her attention, and learns to share Junko's love of despair.

However, Mikan later returns back to her original state, before the brainwashing, no longer holding these feelings for Junko and even assisting the Future Foundation in wiping out despair.

Class 77-B:
Hiyoko 
Throughout the game, Mikan becomes a constant target for Hiyoko's bullying. Despite Hiyoko being over thirty centimeters shorter than Mikan, she has constantly pushed around and made into the butt of Hiyoko's jokes. Despite Hiyoko's bickering and attitude, Mikan still cares for Hiyoko and likes to give her tips on how to stay healthy, although Hiyoko merely shrugs these comments off.

Hiyoko often refers to Mikan as a 'filthy pig' or 'ugly bitch', to which Mikan apologizes constantly for or asks why the other is so mean to her. It is revealed in Chapter 2's motive, Twilight Syndrome Murder Case that Mikan and Hiyoko, being Girl A and Girl B respectively, were in the same group of friends and knew each other very well during their time in Hope's Peak. It has been stated that this group was Mikan's first friends. However, their relationship was the same, and in the Danganronpa 3 chart, Mikan apologizes after Hiyoko calls her "pig puke". Still, Hiyoko also states that Mikan is very useful in situations where someone needs medical attention.

However, deep down, Hiyoko actually does care for Mikan. For example, in Danganronpa 3 manga, it was revealed that Hiyoko accidentally hurt Mikan when she and Mahiru ran into her while walking to school. Losing focus as she was too busy bullying Mikan, Hiyoko tripped over her sandals and scraped her knee, accidentally tripping and wounding Mikan, who was trying to clean Hiyoko's wounds, as well. After seeing what she had done, Hiyoko ran away in shame, forcing Mahiru to go after her. When Mikan tended to Hiyoko's wounds in the nurse's office, Hiyoko tearfully claimed responsibility for the incident and offered to clean Mikan's wounds in return, an act which delighted the Ultimate Nurse. The two were later seen walking out of the office holding hands, showing that Hiyoko did think of Mikan as a friend.

During the Killing School Life, however, Hiyoko ended up being murdered by Mikan along with Ibuki, due to being at the wrong place at the wrong time since the latter had witnessed Mikan's attempt on killing Ibuki. Mikan later makes up for this by rescuing Hiyoko from a brainwashed man when she comes back from her comatose state. She cries tears of joy when Hiyoko reluctantly, but sincerely, thanks her. Mikan is later seen celebrating with Hiyoko, Mahiru, and Ibuki on the ship, indicating that she and Hiyoko have now become friends.

In Mikan's relationship chart in the art book, Hiyoko called Mikan as a frog-pig-garbage-scum woman.

In the non-canon "Danganronpa V3" bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Hiyoko decided to meet up with Mikan in the nurse office since she was in a bad mood. Mikan was surprised and curious how Hiyoko would meet up with her. Mikan then smiled that Hiyoko came to be friends with her and chat along which Hiyoko decline and telling her to not smile. In the end, Hiyoko states how she forgot about her nervousness when she talked with Mikan.

Ibuki 
Prior to The Tragedy, Ibuki was one of Mikan's first and best friends, which was later revealed in Monokuma's second motive, "Twilight Syndrome Murder Case". Ibuki, along with Mahiru, was the only one in their class who addressed Mikan by her first name back then.

Ibuki takes joy in watching Mikan fall into humiliating poses, however, no real harm is actually intended on her side. She is often one of the first to notice when Mikan finds herself in these situations and claims that Mikan looks so adorable whenever she is embarrassed. Despite usually finding it entertaining, Ibuki sometimes shows concern for her, namely when Nagito knocked her down in Side: Hope and Ibuki was the first one who tried to chase after her. Mikan is very shy around Ibuki and is often interrupted by her. Ibuki still cares for Mikan after the murder incident and even forgives her for it and treated Mikan as one of her closest friends as usual. Ibuki's taste in music deeply disturbs Mikan, who reacted in horror upon hearing Ibuki play for the first time.

During the Killing School Trip, when infected with the Despair Disease, Mikan targets Ibuki as her first victim, due to Ibuki's illness turning her naive. Mikan kills Ibuki by strangulation, but despite this, the two remain close friends upon awakening from their coma and are even seen celebrating together on the ship alongside Mahiru and Hiyoko.

In Mikan's relationship chart in the art book, Ibuki described Mikan as cute.

In New "Danganronpa V3" bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Mikan was relieved to see Ibuki awaken. Mikan was surprised when Ibuki stated how she forgot who she was. Mikan was also calm to hear that her friend was okay. Mikan shows concern for Ibuki when she plays all by herself. Ibuki states how she trusted a helpful person like her. In the end, Ibuki complimented Mikan as a cute person when she made a sad face as well.

Mahiru 
Mahiru was another one of Mikan's best friends before the Tragedy. Mahiru addressed Mikan as Mikan-chan and was one of the few in their class who called Mikan by her first name.

Mahiru is aware of how shy Mikan tends to be, and is very gentle with her, unlike Hiyoko. Much like everyone else, Mikan's clumsiness surprises Mahiru, who notes that the way Mikan falls into embarrassing poses takes "skill", although she shows the most concern for Mikan. Mahiru was usually the one who tried to cheer Mikan up after she fell in a compromising pose and told her to be careful next time. Mahiru even yelled at Fuyuhiko for making threats to Mikan. Mikan, although really shy around her, seems to like Mahiru, and shows extreme sadness over her death in Chapter 2, even going as far as to blame herself for not accepting Mahiru's invitation.

It was also shown that Mahiru cared for Mikan during their times at Hope's Peak Academy when Mahiru took a photo of Ibuki, Mikan, and Hiyoko to cheer sad Mikan up after Hiyoko yelled at her for being late. Mahiru defended Mikan and tells Hiyoko to stop scaring Mikan after they discover Natsumi's corpse. After the events of the Tragedy and Killing School Life had ended, Mahiru is seen celebrating with Mikan, along with Hiyoko and Ibuki. Mahiru even approaches Mikan later on, and the two are seen talking together.

Nagito 
At first, Nagito worries about Mikan, as he scolds Hajime after thinking he bullied her and asks if she's okay after having one of her many exaggerated falls. He is also very humbled during the first trial when he mistakenly assumed that Mikan complimented his appearance when she pointed out that there wasn't any blood on him.

After Nagito caught the Despair Disease, Mikan took care of him along with the others. However, she also caught the disease, and despite his terrible condition, he noticed that she had fallen into despair. Because of this, and the murders she committed for the sake of despair, Nagito lost all respect for her and considered her an enemy, worthy of the name "Ultimate Despair". Unlike the others, he wasn't fooled by her act during the trial and he bitterly refused to forgive her.

However, Mikan told Nagito that he's wrong and claimed that she had killed for "her beloved". Somewhat mockingly, she said that Nagito doesn't understand because he doesn't have anyone to love and isn't accepted by anyone, leaving him at a loss for words.

Later though, after Nagito and Mikan awaken from their comatose state, he doesn't seem to hold any more hatred towards her. This probably means that Nagito's original relationship with Mikan, which was mostly him not paying attention to her, although thinking her talent is amazing, has returned.

Ultimate 
While the two almost never interacted in the game, Mikan's relationship with the Ultimate Imposter is revealed in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc. The Imposter took Ryota's place in the class and could not tell anyone this secret. However, when Ryota begins abandoning his health, the Imposter is forced to share his secret with Mikan in order to get her to aid him. Surprisingly, the Imposter was not worried about sharing his secret with Mikan, placing his full trust in her. Mikan agreed to keep his secret. The Imposter was very kind with Mikan and encouraged her to be more confident due to her shy nature. Because she did not experience this kind of treatment often, Mikan instantly took a liking to him and the two appeared to become friends.

Ryota 
A Fellow member of the Class 77-B of Hope's Peak Academy. Mikan looked after Ryota at the Imposter's request and helped nurse him back to health. It appears that the two have become close friends afterward. However, when Junko brainwashes Mikan without Ryota knowing, she attempts to molest him, completely traumatizing him in the process. Their friendship comes to a complete end due to this, and Mikan joins the Ultimate Despair whereas Ryota joins the Future Foundation.

However, Ryota shows guilt over his role in Mikan's brainwashing. After Mikan was cured from her brainwashing, Ryota decides to leave the Future Foundation, and recide on Jabberwock Island with the former Remnants of Despair where their friendship was eventually repaired.

Chiaki 
Real-Life 
Chiaki is the first person who let Mikan play video games and have fun with her by staying calm. In one of the episodes in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, Mikan apologizes while Chiaki act puzzled and pushes Chiaki to a secret passageway. In the end, Mikan regrets the whole thing and joins her classmates to stop Ryota to not upload a brainwashing video of hope.

AI 
Mikan has been shown to be on very friendly terms with the AI version of Chiaki.

In Chapter 2, Chiaki is shown to be spending time with Mikan in the Mirai Hotel lobby. Mikan remarks how kind Chiaki was for teaching her how to play games, and even plays a round against her. Right after Mikan explains that she was happy to be able to play with a friend, which is one of the few instances where Mikan does not apologize for assuming that someone is her friend. After being thanked, Chiaki interjects by saying that Mikan doesn't need to thank her as she had fun too. Hajime's internal dialogue highlights this as he notes how this was the first time he had ever seen Mikan that happy and that he should thank Chiaki for it.

In Chapter 3, when Mikan contracts the Despair Disease, Chiaki is shown to be disappointed in her. Because of their previous interaction and Chiaki's nature as an AI, this can be due to not being able to rehabilitate Mikan as she was supposed to, and feeling disappointed in herself. Though it can also be taken as Chiaki simply being upset about losing a friend she had made herself.

In the same chapter, during the trial, the localization has Chiaki remark the retelling of Mikan sleeping on Hajime as "too much info". However, in the original, she says "itadakimasu" in response, which can be taken as a lewd joke, as it's a phrase used most often before eating as it means "thank you for the meal".

In Mikan's relationship chart, Chiaki states how Mikan can be helpful with her autopsies.

Reserve Course Students:

In Twilight Syndrome Murder Case, it was revealed that Sato was one of Mikan's first friends. They, along with Hiyoko, Ibuki, and Mahiru spent most of their time together prior to Sato's murder.

Hajime 
Mikan seems to have formed a liking for Hajime as he is the first person (on the Island) to have gone up to her and spoke to her, not wishing to bully her but only to have a casual conversation. Though nervous and stuttering at first, she gradually lightens up, even asking him to come back and talk to her again.

Hajime is also the first person she admits to that she is glad that there is nobody to stomp on her and abuse her on the island. Mikan also chases Hajime around with a syringe a few times, wanting to give him an injection, and was found sleeping on him several times in Chapter 3. In the third trial, she uses him to give herself an alibi in the morning when they first discover the corpse.

In chapter 3, when Hajime accuses Mikan of killing Ibuki and Hiyoko, she becomes furious, and obviously, denies this. This act upsets Hajime, who doesn't want to believe she's the culprit as much the others, who are in shock at his accusation. Despite this, Hajime reluctantly shows evidence that points to her being the murderer. He tells Mikan to give it up, so he can still believe in her in the end. But Mikan's personality has already changed, and she was executed, leaving nothing but her malice for Hajime and the others.

In her free-time events, when Mikan explains her reasons for becoming a nurse, Hajime is disturbed and is afraid to show any signs of weakness or sickness around her. However, he also feels bad for her and believes that she is not to be blamed for the way she is now. She also expresses her liking towards Hajime more than a friend but it was shown that Hajime doesn't exactly share the same feelings as hers.

During the events of Island Mode, Mikan is very happy to be Hajime's friend and has a clear romantic interest in him. In her ending, she is even ready to go as far as to cripple him in some way so that they would be together forever. However, Hajime proposes to her instead, causing her to declare that she would become his own private nurse and take care of him.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Mikan Tsumiki
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Mikan in order to learn more about her. If he gives Mikan a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Mikan will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Mikan's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Mikan's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567X
Mikan Tsumiki's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Favourite type of pizza	Favourite type of guy	Favourite bandage type
Stomach	Head	I don't know
--	--	--
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 025 Queen’s Straitjacket DR2 Present 055 Mr Stapler DR2 Present 109 Bandage Wrap

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Mikan grants the following skills:

Silent Massage	The Focus Gauge recovers at a faster rate.
Effective during the Nonstop Debate, the Hangman's Gambit, and the Panic Talk Action.	6 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Mikan Tsumiki

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"M-My name is Mikan Tsumiki. Um... From the bottom of my heart, I hope we can get along."
"Ah! I-I'm sorry for laughing so suddenly! I-It's just...I can't help it. I'm just so happy, I can't remember the last time I made any friends... Ah, not that you actually want to be friends with me! I'm soooo sorry I said something so...presumptuous! I'll do anything you say... Just...please don't hate me...!"
Chapter 1:

"I-I'll do my best! I'll do my very best...not to get in your way!"
Chapter 2:

"L-Living together on this island isn't what's important... W-We need to find a way to escape."
"I want to live a life where I can be more average...a life where nothing happens... That's better for me..."
"Heh... If you don't feel well, let me know. I'll give you lots of shots... Lots and lots of shots!"
"The future...huh... I wonder if we even have a future..."
"Hehe...I'm so, so, soooo happy...I was able to play with a friend... Hehehehehehehe... Thank you very much, Chiaki."
"P-Please don't hate me! I'll take the punishment as much as you'd like!"
"I-I...really have no desire...to do something so rude...like decline the offer...at all..." (to Kazuichi)
"But every dark cloud has a silver lining, as they say...um...it looks like Mahiru didn't suffer."
"Hiyoko...please don't cry. Everything is fine now...right?"
"N-Noooo! Please don't be violent!" (to Hiyoko)
"Before anyone played the game, we didn't even know this incident had happened... That's why, even if we were told that we're connected to it, there's no way we could accept it."
Chapter 3:

"Awww... Hiyoko is so adorable when she's embarrassed!"
"Ah, I'm sorry I scared you... But don't worry. Even if you have a heart attack from getting too scared, this is a hospital after all."
"No need to worry. I'll take care of him for the time being. I mean...that's what nurses are for."
"Phew...it's finally quiet... It's such bad manners to raise your voice inside a hospital."
"Um...please leave Fuyuhiko to me. I will make sure he's nursed back to health... I will do my very best to nurse him back to health so I won't be hated!"
"I understand how you feel, but you really shouldn't overwork yourself..."
"Heee...everyone is so kind... I'm so glad everyone is so thoughtful toward their friends...! Hehehe, we're all equals when we're sick. Let's all work together and do our very best."
"Nagito...is never going to die! I will save him by any means necessary! Nagito's life...is my responsibility. I will save him by any means necessary!"
"But...as long as I'm his nurse...I will never let Nagito die. ...Ever."
"A clumsy, slowpoke like me killing someone...? Th-That's completely out of the question!"
"Nyuh...it's fine... I've been like this for a long time... In a tournament for social punching bags, I'd easily win first place with my soft reputation... Nnh...even I can't deny that..."
"H-He's totally right...! Hehe...I'm such a clumsy mess and I got sooooo careless...!"
"Ah, so in the end...you're all just a bunch of bullies, huh? Justifying your actions with fancy words... M-Making excuses for why it's not really your fault... E-Everyone always treats me like that... Always... "It's all her fault..." "Sh-She's the one with the problem..." I...I'm done with that! You hear me!? I'm doooooooooone! It's not fair...It's not fair not fair not fair notfair notfair notfair notfairnotfairnotfairnotfairnotfair... Why won't you forgive me!? If you did something wrong...you'd forgive yourself right away...! What did I do!? Why won't anybody forgive me!?"
"Why does everybody always hate me!? Please, just forgive me already!"
"Then you're gonna forgive me? I won't stop until you forgive me! Will you forgive me? You'll forgive me, right? Isn't that right? You're obviously gonna forgive me, right?"
"Wh-Why...? Wh-Why can't you forgive me...!? Why...!? Why does everybody always hate me!? You should just forgive me already!"
"Haaaa...it's been suuuuuuuch a long time... This feeling...I know it well... Like the floor is collapsing...like the sky is falling down upon you... ...This feeling of despair!"
"For the sake of despair...? Haha, that's completely wrong! What I did...was for the sake of my beloved. If only they were still alive... They'd be so happy. ...I know. My beloved...was the only one... That's right, the only one who... ...never hated me. They forgave my existence. They forgave me and accepted me. They gave me value. They loved me. I loved them with all my heart and they returned it in full. This is...my reciprocation."
"I understand that I've done something unforgivable. But you know, but you know! To transcend all that is truly... ...what love is all about!"
"You don't understand? Is it because you don't have anyone to love? Is it because you're also someone who isn't accepted by anyone? ...What a pity. I feel sorry for you."
"Even if I say this...I'm sure nobody here would understand but... Love is a wonderful thing. Ahhh, this feeling of freedom where you no longer care about anything! My beloved and I are the only ones within that thin veil, and I'm just looking out through it... That's why...as long as I'm on the inside, no matter how much they tease me, splash me with water, kick me... It's like nothing matters! I could just die, that's how little it matters! Who cares about hope or despair! It's love, only love!"
"The reason I became like this wasn't my fault. It was all your fault, you know? Because...it's not like I'm entirely responsible for turning out like this... I'm the person I am today because of many human relationships. So...it's everybody's fault that I turned out like this, you see? Even so...the current me was most strongly influenced by my beloved's existence. And it was also my beloved who created the me that everyone can't forgive. But my beloved still forgives me and still accepts me... That is the key difference between all of you and my beloved."
"I'm drowning in so much love... From the bottom of my heart, I just don't care about anyone or anything."
"Memories of people...memories of events... Whatever memory it is, losing memories are... ...like losing your personal identity. Memory is the most important component in building a person... Don't you think? Losing our memories...makes us shadows of the past. Don't you think?"
"So it's over. It's really... Now I can go to my beloved who always forgives me...! I can finally see them. Please forgive me, the one who's going to die with the hope of finally seeing you!"
Panic Talk Action Remarks:

"You still haven't forgiven me!?"
"Can you forgive me already!?"
"Forgive me! Forgive me!"
"Please draw on me!"
"Shall I let you punch me!?"
"You're done for!"
"Do you understand...?"
"Why only me!?"
"I'll do anything you want!"
"There's only one bag! It's impossible to use it in two places at the same time!" (Final Argument)
Chapter 5:

"haha@?@@"haha!":hahahahahaforgivemeloveme forgivemeloveforgivemeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee" (Mikan's cottage post-fifth trial)
"I-I'm starting to feel nauseous from the thrills, the chills, the kills..."

Her first name (蜜柑) means "mandarin", as in the type of orange, while her last name (罪木) means "sin tree".
Her last name could reference how she killed out of the despair Junko had planted inside her.
It is also somewhat possible that her last name is meant to reflect her similarity to the biblical Eve, who has committed a sin (the "original") related to a tree (the Tree of Knowledge) due to an innate "human" desire to try and do what is forbidden. Similarly, Mikan has committed double murder due to a desire - her presumably romantic attraction to Junko and wish to please her. She is also similar to Eve through the concept of "not being forgiven" for her actions.
While her title in the official English translation is Ultimate Nurse, Mikan's original title is Super High School Level Health Committee Member. The "health committee" or "health and hygiene committee" (since 保健 hoken means both "health preservation" and "hygiene"), is a common student committee in Japanese high schools with the duty of preparing and administering first aid during school events, monitoring the school's state of sanitation and promoting health-preserving behavior.
One of Mikan's Free-Time Events implies that she is qualified to administer vaccines (like a nurse and unlike a health committee member) - meaning that her circumstances as a health committee member are special.
Mikan's Birthday, May 12, coincides with International Nurses' Day.
Mikan's death poster in the trial room is crossed out with a nurse's cross, in reference to her Ultimate talent.
There is a strong possibility that Mikan suffers from dependent personality disorder, as she fits nearly all of the symptoms.
However, there is a chance Mikan also has social anxiety disorder, because of stuttering in speech, nervousness in social interaction, fear of bothering, boring, or offending others, and she is easily upset.
Mikan is implied to be bisexual.
She developed feelings for Hajime, because he was very kind to her.
She thought of Junko as her "beloved", believing that Junko loved her back and mistaking her abusive behavior for affection. Her obsession with Junko appears to be mostly a result of brainwashing, but nevertheless, her feelings for her are portrayed in a romantic and sexual manner.
In Danganronpa 3, while under the effect of aphrodisiacs, she got very physically close with Peko and even began pushing her leg between Peko's legs.
It is revealed in the concept art that Mikan's hair was cut into chunks by bullies.
There is an error on one of her sprites where a part of her hair is see-through.
Her 'Girl A' counterpart in the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case is the first playable female character in the series.
Girls Gun 2 x Danganronpa Game Mikan Tsumiki
Mikan in the Danganronpa 3 x Hōkai Gakuen collaboration.

Mikan makes a cameo appearance in Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls on a poster in the hospital in Chapter 1.
In Island Mode, she mentions that she enjoys horror movies because of all the blood and helpless people.
Mikan is included in the collaboration of Danganronpa 3 x Hōkai Gakuen.
Mikan's Japanese voice actress, Ai Kayano, also voiced Kotomi Ikuta.

Nagito is a tall and skinny young man in his early twenties, around 22 at youngest. In Danganronpa Another Episode, he is around 20 years old, while his virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as around 17 years old.

Nagito has light grey-green eyes, and sickly pale skin. His hair is shoulder-length and naturally wavy, of an unnaturally pale off-white color that fades to white the closer to his scalp, and is described as looking like it "doesn't belong to a living person". In Danganronpa 2, his hair has a slightly warmer, cream tone to it, but in Danganronpa 3 his hair appears silvery-white with grey tones. By the events of Danganronpa Another Episode which is several years later, his hair looked longer, messier, and darker (presumably with dirt).

Nagito wears a knee-length dark green zipper hoodie with a jagged-cut tail. His hoodie has red squares across the right shoulder, and a large red '55' on the back. Underneath, he wears a white scoop-neck T-shirt with a red design on the front. He wears plain black jeans, and a wallet chain with a skull charm. Each of his brown shoes has two zippers. While attending Hope's Peak Academy, he wore a uniform with a red and green striped sweater vest.

In Danganronpa Another Episode, as the Servant and Ultimate Despair, he wears a cropped black jacket, with three white buttons on the right and one red button on the left. Underneath, he wears a dark-red and olive-green scoop-neck shirt, with long sleeves that are folded over the cuffs of the jacket. Under this is a long beige undershirt. He wears black jeans with black low heeled shoes, tied with red shoelaces. He has a striped mitten on his left hand, to hide Junko's hand with long, red nails, sewn in place of his real hand. He also has a collar around his neck, given to him by the Warriors of Hope, with a chain hanging down the front to his knees. The Servant is described to be constantly smiling, no matter what treatment he receives. He is also said to have "a rather attractive face", and Genocide Jack even calls him "a pretty boy". His skinny build is also mentioned when she calls him "a skinny white-haired guy".

After awaking from a coma on Jabberwock Island and his brainwashing is undone, he replaced his non-functional left hand from Junko's corpse with a robotic forearm and hand. The prosthetic is white on the outer side, and black on the underside. The palm is black, and the backs of his fingers are white. His thumb is white as well. The sleeve of his coat has been ripped where the new arm is. The arm makes a rather audible mechanical sound whenever he lifts it up and waves.

Personality
First impression
Nagito first comes off as a polite, friendly, and easygoing, yet somewhat insecure boy. Hajime Hinata even mentions that his bright smile is very comforting. He was the only one that stayed with Hajime while he was unconscious, and expressed concern for his well-being, even after Hajime told him to go away. Though friendly with everyone, he is mostly interested in spending time with Hajime, and can be quite clingy. Hajime considers him a little annoying and not the most reliable, but still a kind person.

Nagito attempts to be the team's conflict mediator and a poster boy for optimism, often encouraging others to be hopeful and to cooperate. However, he isn't taken very seriously. Hiyoko Saionji makes fun of him, and considers his dramatic pep talks about hope and friendship embarrassing and tiresome. He is generally quite submissive and has a self-deprecating attitude, even agreeing with Hiyoko and the other's snide remarks.

Although though he claims to be a pessimist, Nagito often appears unusually carefree. He lacks tact and occasionally says awkward, strange, and unsettling things without realizing it. At times he can also be more forcefulーhe is quick to scold Hajime when he's being too pessimistic or when he thought he was bullying Mikan Tsumiki. He is also notably annoyed by Teruteru Hanamura's treatment of girls and decides to keep an eye on him to make sure he won't harass anyone.

Beliefs
During the first Class Trial, Nagito is revealed to have a twisted obsession with hope. As a result, he often begins to ramble on about hope, sometimes rather abruptlyーjust talking or hearing someone else talk about hope or in hopeful manner can render him in a state of bliss, causing him to sweat, and hold himself in order to contain his excitement. Furthermore, he sometimes has sudden outbursts in which his eyes darken and start to swirl (Hajime describes the look "a crude mix of hope and despair") while he rambles even more enthusiastically, but he usually snaps out of it fairly quickly and seemingly isn't aware of what happened.

He believes hope is an absolute good, and any deed done in the name of hope is righteous, even murder. He feels no guilt for hurting others in the name of hope, as he believes that hope will always win in the end and justify the means. He believes there are constant clashes between two or more hopes, and that "strong hope" will devour "weak hope" (adoringly, he calls this process "poetry in motion"). Ordinary untalented people, despair, and weak hope are just stepladders for creating stronger hope. He considers these things necessary, while simultaneously having aversion to them. Nagito believes that the Ultimates are chosen at birth, and are capable of strengthening their own hopes by facing and defeating despair, instead of being broken by it like weaker, ordinary people. Like Hope's Peak Academy, Nagito strongly associates hope with talent and talent with worth.

Nagito desires to help to create the absolute hope that can overcome any despair, and he believes that the Ultimates can become embodiments of hope. However, he doesn't consider his luck to be a true talent, and thus doesn't consider himself an Ultimate (despite this, he has also mentioned that his luck is the only good thing about him, and he sometimes finds it very useful). Instead, he desires to be a "stepladder", and sacrifice himself so the other Ultimates can shine. Considering himself a lower being, he often feels shame just for being in their presence. He confuses his obsession with the Ultimates' hope with pure, platonic love for his classmates and he genuinely believes he's doing good for everyone's sake. He has a strong desire to be useful and he is very self-sacrificing, but his ways of helping are often very wrong, harmful and potentially very dangerous, as he is willing to cause temporary despair in order to have hope born from it. He has little regard for his own well-being and doesn't care for his own life, and encourages the other students to kill him to achieve their own hope. He believes that dying for the sake of hope is an honor and the only way for "someone like [him]" to be useful to the world. In his Island Mode ending, Nagito reveals that he wishes to die so he can finally be free from the suffering caused by his luck. However, he is strongly against dying a meaningless death or dying for the sake of despair.

After discovering that he and his classmates were the Remnants of Despair, Nagito began to act arrogant, impatient, and disrespectful towards his former idols. He had particularly little patience for the slow-witted ones, including Kazuichi Soda and Akane Owari. Nagito realized that by killing his classmates, and therefore destroying the Ultimate Despair, he could himself become the Ultimate Hope. Though he claimed it was for the sake of the world's hope, it's also implied he wanted to become Ultimate Hope so he could finally be appreciated, even if only after his death.

Nagito believes his views on hope are logical and extremely obvious, and has trouble relating to others when they disagree. Though he is very stubborn, he has changed his ways of thinking during the series. He is sometimes conflicted between his extreme beliefs and his own feelings. He calls himself "worthless trash" that doesn't deserve any kindness from others, but at the same time, he desires to be appreciated, loved and understood. In his fifth free-time event, Nagito revealed that his true, biggest wish is to be loved by someone at least once in his life, and to not die alone. Furthermore, even though he greatly admires and claims to love all of the Ultimates for their talents and capability to embody hope, he doesn't really care about them as individuals. He isn't truly saddened by their deaths, and even appears to dislike some of them as people. Similarly, he may not have anything personal against the talentlessーin fact, the only student Nagito genuinely cared for is Hajime, a talentless reserve course student.

In Super Danganronpa 2.5, based on what the World Destroyer said about his illusionary world reflecting his desires, Nagito may actually have a hidden hatred towards talent and wishes for a world without talent because he believes the world and its people would be better if talents were taken away so everyone can become equal and free. For example, Kazuichi's illusion form reflects his insecurities about not being good enough for some people's company. In Danganronpa 2, Nagito is seen showing interest in Hajime because he doesn't feel like an Ultimate to him and thus they're more similar and equal in his eyes. His wish to live an ordinary life with someone is also mentioned in Zansakura -zanka-, which is a song about his inner feelings. In the OVA, Nagito was both shocked and embarrassed to realize that he may actually have such emotions and thoughts, as he usually claims that only those with great talent can bring great hope. Naturally, he was relieved that nobody else saw this side of him during his comatose state. Despite learning about this hidden side of himself, he refuses to accept it and instead continue with his desire for hope. In the end, he is shown taking Hajime's hand and deciding to move towards hope, implying that being with Hajime is his hope.

It also should be noted that Nagito genuinely respects ideals such as love and friendship, and often emphasises the importance of team-work and helping each other. This became more noticeable after he came out of the NEO World Program with his past memories restored.

General behavior
Nagito has a laid-back and quite calm demeanor, and he is often smiling or laughing. However, his cheerfulness may not be entirely genuine, as his calmness is more akin to apathy and he tends to feel strong self-hatred. He remains cheerful even during his self-loathing rambling, and acts disturbingly optimistically toward horrible things such as death, as long as it's for the sake of hope.

Nagito likely suppresses any real feelings of sorrow or fear as a coping mechanism, because he experiences tragedy often due to his luck. He has also seen very unlikely and strange things due to his luck, which is why he is not easily surprised. As a result of everything he's been through, he has become more emotionally numb and he is rarely openly angry or scared. He often lacks appropriate emotions in situations where most people would be afraid, like threats of violence. Even so, he once mentioned that he feels fear every day of his life, most likely because of his luck. Furthermore, he can be very angered by despair and other things he considers insulting toward hope. When he does express anger, he becomes notably more serious. When displeased, he is very passive-aggressive.

Nagito is capable of feeling some guilt and care for others, and he does not truly enjoy the suffering of others, but the hope born from it. Still, he is typically very emotionally cold and doesn't seem to feel much remorse or grief neither. He's shown to be fine with tricking, manipulation and stealing, though it should be noted that he does these for the sake of a bigger goal rather than his own ends. He has been described as a very honest person, though he will lie if he finds it necessary. While he prefers to do things on his own, he is very lonely and often tries to join the other Ultimates in their activities and becomes really happy if he's given attention, even if just a little bit. It's also implied that he intentionally keeps his distance from others because he wants to protect them from the disasters caused by his bad luck.

Nagito is also one of the most intelligent characters of the second game, being very cunning and smart. He often solves a case long before the others, but he doesn't want  for this. Instead, he often acts ignorant during the trials, manipulates the conversation by giving (often unnoticed) hints and then praises the others as if they're the ones who figured it all out. He does this because he considers himself too unimportant to take a more openly active role, wants to see the other Ultimates figure things out by themselves, and he wishes to remain neutral until he can determine which side has the stronger hope.

Social Impairment
Overall, Nagito appears to be somewhat out of touch with his own feelings. He tries to be polite, but he can be overly harsh and insensitive, often without realizing it. He has a lack of social awareness and insight into his own behavior. Because of this, he has problems understanding how his own behavior can affect other people and he may not understand or pick up on social hints. He struggles with expressing himself in a socially appropriate manner and this often leads to people misunderstanding what he's trying to say, and vice versa. During Chapter 1's additional dialogue, Nagito explains that he says dubious things without meaning to and that he realizes this, but can't stop it from happening. However, he also adds that he always sincerely means what he says.

In Chapter 4 of Danganronpa 2, he accidentally offended both Kazuichi and Fuyuhiko Kuzuryuーin Fuyuhiko's case, he understood that he said something wrong and quickly apologized, but remained quite confused, and misunderstood what he said wrong. For Kazuichi, he was completely oblivious and only noticed that Kazuichi seemed angry for some reason. Other examples of this type of behavior include his odd and awkward sense of humor, often making jokes at inappropriate times, like soon after someone's death. He usually backs off if the others explain to him that his behavior is rude or he tells them he wasn't being serious. Similarly, when he tries to compliment someone, it can come across as an insult. His gauge of sarcasm is quite poor, too, as he sometimes mistakes mean comments for compliments. He also doesn't understand why the others are paranoid, angry and afraid of him. He's often confused by the others' behavior, thinking that they're strange for acting so suspicious of him, to the point that he sometimes worries about their mental health. He thinks that the others hate him because he's a lower human being.

In his final free-time event, Nagito claims to have Frontotemporal Dementia, a neurodegenerative disease that affects their personality and social cognition, and thus may account for some of his strange behavior. He claims he was lying immediately afterward and it is unknown whether this was a lie or not. Nevertheless, it is clear that he has some type of psychological disorder.

It should be noted that Nagito's strange luck affects his condition as well, seemingly allowing him to live much longer than he should have, and likely giving him unusual symptoms.

Island Mode
In Island Mode, Nagito is calmer without a Killing School Trip to set him off. Though he looks forward to such a situation, he doesn't do anything dangerous. Instead, he genuinely wants to entertain Hajime and spend time with him. He is often quite nervous due to his inexperience in many social situations, for example, sitting and talking in the park with someone. He's afraid he will bore or say something weird to Hajime, and worries that might cause Hajime to hate him, which is something he really doesn't want to happen. He is also constantly paranoid and has a habit of listing bad things that might happen (in a disturbingly personal manner), as he fears that his bad luck might harm or even kill Hajime. However, despite all this, he also mentions that he feels much more peaceful and relaxed on the island. In the end, he still appears depressed, but his way of thinking began to change after spending time with Hajime and realizing that he's been clinging to false hope, and that the true hope has been within him from the very beginning.

Ultimate Despair/The Servant
In Danganronpa Another Episode, as the Servant and Ultimate Despair, Nagito is even harder to read and rarely lets his true intentions and emotions show. The official limited art book describes him as "quiet, soft-spoken and effeminate".

Despite being Ultimate Despair, he doesn't seem directly dangerous and appears non-violent, rather he manipulates and works behind the scenes. He is also mentioned to be in rather high spirits despite being essentially a slave, smiling most of the time and having a carefree, sometimes disturbing laugh. He receives the mistreatment from the Warriors of Hope with a smile and sometimes even seems to enjoy it (his official profile states that he might be a masochist). In general, he appears unusually calm to the point of being apathetic, and is rather unfazed by the disturbing things happening around him (however, he does appear to feel uncomfortable when Monaca Towa forcibly kisses Nagisa Shingetsu.) He is generally polite and collected, but he may appear insensitive at times or lose his composure when talking about hope. He has a habit of forgetting how he is supposed to act as a servant and he seems to misunderstand orders quite a lot, though these may be passive-aggressive acts done on purpose. All the food he makes is inedible with very nonsensical ingredients (for example, in 2014's Christmas tweet, he is asked to make Bûche de Noël, but instead, he makes some sort of cake out of nothing but whipped cream and pinecones).

The Servant calls the story's situation a game several times, such as calling Komaru a "generic game protagonist" and mentioning game-balancing and defeating of the final boss. This may seem like breaking the fourth wall, but it actually refers to the Demon Hunting, which according to the Servant is also a game to incite Komaru's growth. Unlike his past self, the Servant believes in the potential of the talentless, because such "weak" people succeeding and rising up from despair would create even more hope. It's possible that his opinion changed after Makoto, a "mere" Ultimate Lucky Student, defeated the true Ultimate Despair and became Ultimate Hope.

The Servant's main goal is to help to create a happy, hopeful world, but one born from absolute despair, going so far as to assist his own enemy and start a war for the sake of this goal. As a result of brainwashing, he has a twisted disturbing obsession with Junko Enoshima. However, it seems the brainwashing affected him differently than everyone else, as he also retains his hatred for Junko and his love for hope. He also seems to be more aware of what he is doing while being brainwashed, which ironically seems to make him the most sane out of the class. Though, it should be noted that while he is still doing everything for the sake of hope, his plans are even more dangerous than before. However, after his brainwashing was undone, he appears to have abandoned his harmful ways and is shown to be in peace with his classmates.

Talent and Abilities
Ultimate Lucky Student
Nagito got his title as the Ultimate Lucky Student by winning a lottery out of completely ordinary students, which led to him joining Hope's Peak Academy. He at first declined, saying that he didn't deserve it, but they insisted that he should attend. Nagito possesses a cycle of consistent good and bad luck. Whenever something extremely lucky happens to him, something extremely unlucky is bound to happen soon after. While the talent seems to protect him from death, it can cause him great suffering and has killed many people around him. The only person whose luck matches his own is Izuru Kamukura, and later Hajime.

Nagito's birthday (the 28th day of the fourth month) heavily references his talent, with his birth month representing bad luck and death while his birth day represents a double amount of wealth and fortune according to old Japanese and Chinese beliefs. Considering some of the supernatural elements seen in the series, it's possible that his unusual birthday might have an impact on his unusual luck.

In other languages
Nagito's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Lucky Student
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「幸運」	Super High School Level Good Luck
Français Ultime Chanceux	Ultimate Good Luck
Keen-Intellect
While his emotional skills are lacking, Nagito is one of the most intelligent characters of the second game. He can create very complex plans and figure things out quickly even without the help of his luck, which actually has a tendency to backfire on him.

In Danganronpa 2, he is one of the best investigators in the group and he's also very skilled at planning as well as problem solving. Throughout the class trials, Nagito manipulates conversations and mentions points no one else thought about. Monokuma once described him as "annoying" for noticing a detail others missed. A part of the reason Hajime found out who the culprits were in the trials was because of the constant hints and clues Nagito gave him. Often, he seems to be able to tell what Hajime is thinking and sometimes he can even correctly guess when and what Hajime is about to figure out.

In Danganronpa Another Episode, he created real-life "game balance" by ordering the Monokuma Kids to directly or indirectly give Komaru useful items and transform her surroundings to make her go towards the right direction, all of it in order for her to develop both mentally and physically.

In Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, he somehow gained lots of information about Junko and found her secret room. He accurately warned his classmates about Junko, but decided to not go against their hopefulness and quickly lost consciousness afterwards. Had he been awake, he probably could have helped his classmates to successfully avoid Junko's trap, by noticing Mikan's strange behavior and other warning signs. Right after he wakes up and when it's already too late, he tries to warn his classmates by telling them it's a trap.

Ability to sense Talent, Hope and Despair
Strangely, Nagito also seems to have a good eye for noticing talent, hope and despair in other people. For example, Hajime never felt like an Ultimate to him and he turned out to be talentless. In chapter 3 of the second game, Nagito only had quick blurry glances at Mikan's face, but he could tell that her expression was full of despair and he even called her Ultimate Despair, despite being currently unfamiliar with the term. In Danganronpa Another Episode, he could sense the potential in Komaru. In Danganronpa 3, he is also almost immediately attracted to Izuru, supposedly because he can sense his aura. Had he been awake to talk with Mikan, he probably would have noticed that she is infected by despair.

This is sometimes played for laughs in the non-canon manga, as he can suddenly show up because he sensed something despairful or hopeful would happen.

Skilled Cleaner
Despite not seemingly having a background of cleaning experience, Nagito is quite skilled when it comes to cleaning. When the Class 77-B decided who should clean the old building for their party, Nagito is picked to do the work but states being 'pretty good' at cleaning anyway. The dining hall was filled with dust and cobwebs which Nagito painstakingly cleaned for the whole day to Hajime's surprise, stating there is no way he'd be able to last the whole day doing such a task. Nagito's dedication to the job is considered commendable by Hajime and Mahiru, who felt bad for Nagito seeing as the place was so run-down. Nagito's excellent cleaning job compared to what others in the class would have achieved shows his skills as a cleaner being above the rest. This is also mentioned in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, as he states that cleaning is the one thing he's good at, contrasting the way he usually belittles himself and his abilities.

History
Prior to the Tragedy
Nagito was born into a rich family, in the 28th day of the fourth month, with his birth month representing bad luck and death while his birth day represents a double amount of wealth and fortune according to old Japanese and Chinese beliefs. He was born with an extraordinary type of luck, and as a result his life has always been shaped around moments of extreme good luck and extreme bad luck. The earliest known occurrence of this is when his pet dog was killed after being hit by a truck. His relationship with his parents is unclear; he mentions that they took him to an amusement park, but he also mentions offhand that his mother never complimented his appearance.

When he was only an elementary school student, Nagito and his parents went on a family vacation at San Cristóbal Island in the Galápagos archipelago. When the vacation was at an end, the family boarded an airplane leaving from the San Cristóbal Airport. However, the plane ended up being hijacked. Both the hijacker and Nagito's parents were killed in front of him after a small meteor crashed into the airplane, leaving him to inherit all of his parents' fortune and become free to do whatever he wished, as he had no other living relatives.

After his parents' death, during middle school, Nagito was kidnapped by a serial killer; he was released after the police found him (it was implied that the killer let him go after they found out nobody would pay the ransom). As a form of good luck, Nagito had discovered a lottery ticket in the garbage bag the murderer kidnapped him in: a winning ticket for three million yen.

These would be the first of many, many tragic things that happened to Nagito due to his luck. His cycle of good and bad luck made sure that any chance he might have at actual happiness would be spoiled. In order to cope with this, he developed a strong faith in hope so that he could find some meaning in his life. However, this turned into an unhealthy obsession. He didn't have any close friends or even acquaintances, as other people were disturbed by his strange way of thinking and he intentionally avoided other people in order to protect them from his bad luck. His bad luck caused the deaths of several people and he started to believe that only the people with "weak hope" could be killed by the influence of someone worthless like him. His luck cycle wore him down to the point of drifting through life without purpose, waiting to die and dreaming of becoming a stepping stone for the world's hope. Believing that he is unable to embody hope, he idolized Hope's Peak Academy and its' students as symbols of hope who are capable of creating "absolute hope" - hope that can overcome any despair.

As a teen, Nagito attended Spiral High School. He was diagnosed with lymphoma and frontotemporal dementia, and was given a life expectancy of 6 months to a year (though, as it's later revealed, his good luck allowed him to outlive this). Though he claims he was fine with being alone before, he then realized he would die all alone and that he always desired, more than anything, to be loved by someone. After this, as a form of good luck, Nagito won a random lottery and was invited to attend Hope's Peak Academy. He refused at first, believing that he wasn't worthy, but the academy was adamant that they wished to study his luck, and he eventually accepted the offer.

Nagito joined Hope's Peak Academy's 77th Class and gained the title of the Ultimate Lucky Student. He was aloof and elusive, but was known as the self-proclaimed "Ultimate Ultimate Fanatic". According to Jin Kirigiri, the headmaster, Nagito meddled with the affairs of other students and caused nothing but problems. The headmaster was constantly burdened because of him and described him as an incredibly problematic child. However, he understood that the boy himself didn't really mean any harm, which was the worst part of it all.

During Nagito's second year, Junko started to manipulate students to join her Ultimate Despair. It's strongly implied that Nagito joined because he wanted to see Ultimate Despair's rise and fall, believing that no matter what, hope would always win and despair would be destroyed in the end. The members of the Ultimate Despair were brainwashed and fell madly in love with Junko. However, in Nagito's case it was a bit different. He developed strange, conflicting feelings of both love and hatred for Junko and saw her as his sworn enemy.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak Academy
Nagito was found somewhere outside the school area trying to buy a can of soda from a vending machine. He called himself unlucky when the machine didn't work after already putting in ten thousand yen, when suddenly a truck landed right on top of the vending machine. The machine hit its' "lucky point" and Nagito recieved many soda cans rather than one. As Nagito bent down to get a drink, his homeroom teacher Chisa Yukizome, handed him one and smiled at him.

Nagito (and presumably everyone else) collected his soda cans and returned to the classroom. He was impressed by Chisa's effort put in to meeting "scum" like him. Chisa announced to him and everyone else that they were "rotten oranges." After this, Chisa left to retrieved Chiaki Nanami and the Ultimate Imposter while she tasked everyone with cleaning their classroom.

After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that everyone had waited and that the classroom was clean. When the students once again bring up that they aren't required to attend class so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other. Nagito thought that to create "hope" together is a wonderful thing to do.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for You
During Akane and Nekomaru Nidai's deadly training session in the class, Nagito sat at his desk and happily watched their fight. Unlike the others, he didn't take cover on the side of the class, showing no concern in getting hurt by the fight at all.

Later, after they fixed up their class, Nagito and the others played games that Chiaki brought. Nagito, Kazuichi, Fuyuhiko, and Teruteru played a monopoly-like game together. When about to be defeated, Nagito rolled a lucky dice and won the game in an instant.

During the break time, Nagito and his classmates ate Hiyoko and Teruteru's nikujaga. Unfortunately, the food contained aphrodisiacs that were secretly added by Hiyoko, which affected Nagito and the others greatly. However, even under the effect of aphrodisiacs, Nagito still only seemed to think about hope. He lost consciousness and recovered sometime later in the nurse's office.

The next day, Nagito returned to class and listened to Chisa's announcement about Chiaki being elected as the class representative. Nagito agreed with it, saying that the class and its' light will never end as long as Chiaki was their rep.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All Futures
At the beginning of the episode, Nagito and his classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building.

Later, he was shown in the school's park with his classmates, smiling at a bird who landed on his hand.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito Komaeda
Watching his classmates being gloomy all day after the deaths of Natsumi Kuzuryu and Sato affecting their morale, Nagito felt he should do something about it. As the annual practical exam would start on the next day, Nagito visited Chisa in the staff room and asked her to cancel the exam, reasoning that his classmates wouldn't be at their best due to their current mood. Unfortunately, the exam couldn't be cancelled as Nagito wished, but he had already prepared his own plan.

First, Nagito gave Teruteru a photo book of the famous idol Sayaka Maizono for the location of the Ultimate Pharmacist Seiko Kimura, the upperclassmen who helped Teruteru invent his aphrodisiac soup.

Nagito then visited Seiko at the chemistry lab, claiming to be constipated and asking for a laxative. However, as he reached for the bottle higher up in the storage room, he fell on the floor along with two bottles. He couldn't read the English labels and trusted his luck, picking the incorrect bottle labeled "Reanimator" meant for Seiko's classmate Ruruka Ando instead of the "Reactivator".

Then, Nagito left an anonymous warning for the school that bad things would happen if the practical exams aren't cancelled, and he hid a bomb inside the gym.

A bit later, Nagito accidentally bumped into Seiko who was hurrying towards the gym. Nagito thanked her for the laxative, which made Seiko very happy. She left in a hurry and their similar looking bags were accidentally switched.

Nagito prepared the drugs disguised as drinks, which seemed to be the first part of his plan, while the bomb seemed to be plan B if the former failed. Gundham Tanaka's missing dog drank one of the drinks and became gigantic, which made Nagito realize that it isn't a laxative. Unperturbed by the giant dog, Nagito decided to carry on with his plan and use the bomb switch, but then realized that he also has the wrong bag. The dog ran inside the gym while Nagito sat down, seemingly depressed because of his failure and the amount of bad luck. But he then smiled, saying that he must be truly lucky to experience such bad luck.

Subsequently, the judges ended up eating Ruruka's pastries laced with laxative, and Seiko accidentally switched on the bomb along with Ruruka.

Chisa found Nagito and spoke with him alone about what happened. Nagito explained his ideology, but Chisa told him that hope doesn't come from hurting others. When Nagito called himself trash once again, Chisa slapped him and then gently took his head between her hands, telling him that he's not trash, but her precious student who is going to graduate with everyone else. Chisa later defended Nagito against the principal and told his classmates that Nagito only wanted to help them and that they should give him a warm welcome when he returns.

Because of the incident, Seiko, Ruruka and Sonosuke Izayoi ended up expelled, Nagito's teacher Koichi Kizakura was placed on probation and Chisa was transferred to the Reserve Course. Nagito was suspended indefinitely, but not expelled due to his great talent, and the practical exams were indeed postponed. It's also mentioned that miraculously there were no casualties in the explosion, which is another example of Nagito's luck.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History
Nagito did not return to Hope's Peak for a year. At one point, he was on another plane which crashed, with Nagito the only survivor, leaving him alone on a deserted island paradise.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by Chance
Nagito returned to Hope's Peak during the reserve course students' riot. Upon discovering that everyone was searching for Mikan, he tells them that he saw her outside as he came in. The whole class decided to look for Mikan, but Nagito stopped Peko on the way out, asking her for a favor.

Nagito joined up with Chiaki during the search, finding a secret entrance under the founder's statue. Inside, they found Ryota Mitarai, soon joined by Junko. Identifying her as "absolute despair", Nagito threatened the Ultimate Fashionista with a gun, explaining his intent to kill her in order to make hope shine even brighter. He also revealed that he had asked Peko to keep an eye on Mukuro Ikusaba and to attack her if she did anything suspicious, thereby ensuring that the Ultimate Soldier would be unable to assist Junko during Nagito's assassination attempt.

Despite Chiaki's pleas that killing was never justified, Nagito prepared to fire, only to be distracted by Izuru Kamukura. He promptly changed targets, but his gun jammed, allowing Izuru to take the gun from him and shoot him in turn. Nagito managed to sustain non-fatal damage due to having his student handbook in his shirt pocket. Despite the situation, he appeared attracted to Izuru, supposedly because he can sense his identity as the Ultimate Hope. Shortly afterwards, Nagito lost consciousness in a worried Chiaki's arms, thereby missing the revelation that Izuru was actually the altered version of Hajime Hinata, Chiaki's friend from the Reserve Course.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile
Nagito, still unconscious at the time, is saved by Chisa who throws a fire extinguisher and causes fog which obscures Junko's vision. Chisa then orders Chiaki to take Nagito and escape.

Chiaki supports Nagito all the way from Junko's hideout to the school classroom where the rest of the class have regrouped, assuming that Nagito lied to them about Mikan's whereabouts. After Chiaki lays Nagito down propped up against the wall, she explains to the class that Chisa is in trouble and they all readily agree to help. Nagito tries to convince them otherwise by pointing out that it will be dangerous and their is a high chance of them dying. The class begin to consider these concerns but Chiaki's speech is still able to convince them otherwise. Nagito then admits he was simply testing them and that he wanted to see if they were all willing to be stepping stones for hope. Fuyuhiko is angered by his explanation being so roundabout. Nagito wishes to go with them, but upon attempting to stand, falls to the floor again. Chiaki tells him to 'Be strong', and Sonia commands Kazuichi to carry Nagito, which he agrees to instantly.

Upon leaving the Main Course building, the class encounter the Reserve Course students who wish to fight them. Nekomaru and Gundham stay behind to fend them off and the rest continue on to Junko's lair.

Upon reaching the stairway to Junko's hideout, they begin to descend, Kazuichi still carrying an unconscious Nagito on his back.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope
After the class descend the stairway, Mikan eventually catches up with them.

Mikan, now leading the group, approaches a large red door at the end of the corridor. Pressing a button which opens the door, the class follow her inside. The class murmur in confusion when they discover an empty trial room, and beginning to come to consciousness, Nagito warns them that it is a trap. Once inside, Junko reveals multiple monitors showing Chiaki Nanami's Punishment. The class and Nagito, horrified by what he is seeing, have no choice but to watch under the brainwashing videos' control.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Nagito, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes are triggered from a floor trap that stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. As the broadcast comes to a close, Nagito begins to blither, on how the video is full of despair, that the class must overcome this despair. He comments that Chiaki's death has made her a stepping stone for hope, while he proceeds to laugh uncontrollably. The class then fall silent, with a patterned swirl in their eyes, they have lost all hope and begin to become part of Ultimate Despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy
Nagito and the rest of Class 77-B students are back in their classroom, attending their final lesson before graduation. Chisa says that it has been an honor to be their teacher, and starts reading a letter she prepared. Nagito and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa starts to cry. The patterned swirls return in their eyes as they all make a promise of what they will do after graduation. Nagito says he knows hope will win, so he has no problem falling into despair. After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activates a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Nagito and his class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak Academy's destruction.

Nagito is later seen with Hajime and Chiaki inside the Neo World Program.

During The Tragedy
The members of Ultimate Despair committed multiple terrorist acts during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world.

After the death of Junko, the remnants of Despair harvested some of her body parts for themselves in order to make her survive within them or feel closer to her. Nagito cut off his left hand and attached hers in its' place. Though he claims he did it for the sake of stealing her power and his hatred for her, he also obsessed over her just like the others. When questioned by Izuru about it in chapter 0, he becomes agitated and conflicted.

The remnants of Despair then agreed to an insane plan to have an AI Junko take over their bodies, so that they may resurrect their leader.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls
Though he claims he'd come to Towa City in search of a safe place, it's highly probable that in reality, Nagito was one of the Ultimate Despair assigned to oversee the Captives before he met the Warriors of Hope. The kids seemed unaware of his true identity and planned to kill him, but decided to keep him alive as their slave after he pleaded for his life.

The kids made him wear a collar and chain around his neck, called him just a Servant and overall treated him like he wasn't even a human. They find him annoying for talking too much and because of his habit to misunderstand orders. Despite this, he seems to have authority over the Monokuma Kids and he can give them orders.

In truth, Nagito let himself be captured on purpose for the benefit of his own goals. He agreed to work with Monaca (who knows his true identity) despite their different goals and this agreement was kept secret from the other kids. He is requested by Monaca to guide Komaru through their Demon's Hunting game and bring her to their secret stronghold, a building called Towa Hills. He makes a deal with Toko Fukawa and promises to release captured Byakuya Togami if she escorts Komaru safely to the stronghold.

Prologue - The Warriors of Hope
Komaru loses consciousness after a helicopter crash and is brought to the kids' airship, most likely by the Servant (Nagito). While she was unconscious, he took her Megaphone Hacking Gun, analyzed it and weakened it for the sake of "game balance". Two days later, she wakes up in a prison-like cell. Servant hands back her Hacking Gun, promises to give her upgrades later and tells her that she needs to go see the Warriors of Hope. He also warns her to keep the fact that he had returned the gun a secret, if she doesn't wish to die.

While Komaru talks with the kids, Servant suddenly appears behind her and snaps the Monokuma Bracelet onto her wrist, surprising her. He explains that if Komaru insists in removing the bracelet, it will explode. When Komaru almost mentions her gun by accident, Servant saves her by quickly changing the subject and imperceptibly reminding her of his warning. Masaru Daimon is angered by this and he threatens to glue Servant's mouth shut if he keeps on talking without permission. Servant only laughs a little and goes to stand a bit further away from others.

After the kids drop Komaru off of the ship and start their Demon Hunting game, Servant is seen talking to himself and he tells Komaru to do her best while calling her common, dull and boring "Miss Protagonist".

Chapter 1 - Crying for Love in Hell
After Komaru falls down, she is found by Toko, right according to Servant's plan. The two start to search for a way out of the city, while in truth Toko is just trying to take her to the stronghold.

Servant is not seen in the chapter, but he orders Monokuma Kids to give upgrades for Komaru's Hacking Gun in the form of presents.

Chapter 2 - Legend of the Revolution
The Servant is seen again as the Warriors of Hope finish mourning over Masaru's death. He made the Warriors of Hope milkshakes, but he made them incorrectly and even put lard in them as the Internet wasn't connected and he had no guidance in order to make them. The kids reject them in disgust and Nagisa, the new leader of the Warriors of Hope, orders him to drink the milkshakes himself. The Servant protests slightly at first, but then obeys with laughter, commenting that he's "everyone's servant" and lives to serve.

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's Battlefield
After Jataro Kemuri's death, the remaining Warriors of Hope speak with their advisor Kurokuma. The Servant arrives late to the scene after a long search of broiled sweet chestnuts for Kotoko Utsugi. However, they're unpeeled, which greatly annoys Kotoko. She gets more angry after Servant reminds her of her past as an actress and even threatens to kill him. Servant tries to calm her down with apologies and offers to peel the chestnuts himself, but she punishes him by throwing cakes at him and calling him an useless servant. Servant keeps on smiling and simply mentions that he prefers salty things to sweet ones.

Later the Warriors of Hope drew on Servant's face by Monaca's request. This happens off-screen and is only mentioned in the art book.

Chapter 4 - The Way We Live
Servant and Monaca become suspicious of Nagisa's loyalty and he spies on him with the help of Monokuma Kids. One Monokuma Kid records and shows him a video of Nagisa removing Komaru's bracelet and helping her to escape the city. Servant hurries to stop them and arrives just in time. He tells Komaru not to cast aside "the game" midway and questions if she is truly okay with escaping as things are. When Nagisa scolds him, Servant turns intimidating towards him for the first time and claims that the Warriors of Hope care more about the game than their paradise and Nagisa knows this, but didn't do anything about it because of Monaca. He calls Nagisa a traitor and tells him to leave the rest to him. This causes Nagisa to rethink his betrayal and he runs away.

Servant turns his attention back to Komaru and tells her that he is disappointed in her for planning to escape after all the preparations he made for her, especially since by doing so she would abandon a friend. He then corrects himself by stating that the one he should really blame is Toko and he asks why didn't she follow their plan. Komaru is confused and Toko refuses to speak, so the Servant explains to Komaru the deal between him and Toko. He also reveals his motivation behind the deal—his own will to have Komaru grow through the game and clear it. He reveals he's fixated on her because of her brother and he regrets not being present during Junko's defeat. He explains that a completely normal and talentless girl like Komaru can become Towa City's hope and obtain even greater hope than her brother, since hope is born from the weak rising up from despair. He carries on his mad ramble and urges her not to give up, but she doesn't understand anything he's saying. Servant calms down for a moment and assumes that she doesn't understand because of his lack of enthusiasm. He then carries on rambling, saying that hope will always win in the end, which is why he can submit himself to despair with peace of mind.

Servant asks the two girls what they plan to do now and as they start to cry and argue, he provokes Toko to catch Komaru for Byakuya's sake. The two end up fighting, but Toko loses and collapses on the ground. Toko tells Komaru to escape, admits that she lost on purpose and expresses disgust to being Servant's yes-man. Servant then walks to Toko and gives her "a little help" by pouring pepper on her face. She sneezes and changes to Genocide Jack, but she attacks Servant instead of Komaru, and slashes both of his legs with her scissors. Surprised Servant collapses on the ground and calmly assumes that she attacked him because she doesn't share memories with Toko. Genocide Jack silences him and reveals her intention to kill him and set Komaru free. Servant assumes that her change of heart was caused by the girls' beautiful friendship, but finds it a bit strange of Genocide Jack since she is a serial killer. Genocide Jack is angered by this assumption and attempts to kill Servant, but Komaru stops her and assures that they are friends.

Komaru decides to stay with Toko and Genocide Jack instead of leaving the city, which causes Genocide Jack to throw Servant against the ground in anger. He lies still and listens silently as the two girls talk, but then rises up to sit and states that the current outcome is alright, because the city would lose hope if Komaru left. He does his best to ignore the pain on his legs and tells the girls that they have to defeat "the final boss" in order to save Byakuya. He reveals that he has a partner, but refuses to tell more about it since he's already "dropped out of the game". Still, he tells them to proceed onwards and reveals that the children's stronghold is a building called Towa Hills. He is pleased to see that Komaru's hope has grown and gives the two instructions on how to reach their destination.

As the two girls leave, Servant waves them goodbye and laughs in excitement as he can feel that the city's despair will soon be swallowed by hope. Nagisa then arrives with his robot, but Servant isn't frightened and states that Nagisa really is a child for getting so angry.

Nagisa takes Servant back to their base and angrily accuses him of deceiving The Warriors of Hope and trying to ruin their plans. He kicks him in the stomach as he tries to make him confess, but it only causes the older boy to laugh a little. Monaca arrives to the scene and reveals to Nagisa that Servant's doings were requested by her and that her true goal is to create "Junko Enoshima II". Monaca mentally wears Nagisa down and causes him to fall in despair as Servant and Kurokuma watch on the side. Kurokuma states that Monaca is as vulgar as always and Servant agrees with a sigh.

Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl
Servant is now able to stand, his face is cleaned from the drawings and he has bandages covering his legs' wounds. As Monaca happily watches a video of the Big Bang Monokuma moving in the city, Servant arrives and tells her that he is about to leave and came to bid farewell. Monaca and Kurokuma are surprised by this, since "the show" has just begun. Servant says that he has a final report for his master and Kurokuma mocks him by asking if he realized he's a hard gay. Servant ignores him and explains that the Monokuma Kids told him there's an intruder in the city. Monaca and Kurokuma don't think it's important and keep on watching the video.

Servant notes that Monaca is in awfully good mood even though her plan seems to be failing. Monaca reveals that she has kept secrets even from Servant and refuses to tell more when he questions if it has something to do with Junko Enoshima II. Servant isn't truly interested in her secrets as he believes that hope will win no matter what. Monaca and Kurokuma make fun of his beliefs and call them contradictory. Servant disagrees and explains that the seeds of despair cannot be destroyed while they're buried, but they can be completely burned after they've flourished above the surface. However, he also states that contradictions don't matter to him anyway.

Monaca is a bit confused and intrigued by the fact that Servant realizes he has fallen into despair, yet he claims even that is in the name of hope. She asks if it's because of Junko's influence or was he always like that, but Servant turns silent and doesn't give her an answer. He watches for awhile as Monaca and Kurokuma speak and then turns to leave. Monaca tells Servant that she appreciates his efforts, but doesn't believe they'll ever meet again.

Epilogue - The Changing World We Made
It's revealed that the Servant changed his mind and decided to stay in the city for a while longer and see everything through to the end. He finds unconscious Monaca and helps her out of the rubble. He carries her on his back and she wakes up and asks why he saved her. Servant answers that they're the same, both disappointed in the ending with neither despair nor hope.

Servant reveals that his main goal all along was to to cause a war in order to have a magnificent hope born from it. Monaca wonders whose side he is really on, but he says it doesn't really matter and he tells Monaca that she could become the second Junko Enoshima. He agrees to cooperate with her as long as time will allow, as he still has other things to do. He tells her that he can raise her and make her even more real than the real thing, as he is the one who loves and hates Junko more than anyone else.

In Danganronpa 3 - Future Arc, it is revealed that Nagito tried to mold Monaca into the next Junko Enoshima, but having to listen to his diatribes on hope and despair caused Monaca to grow tired of despair.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair
Chapter 0 - Heading to the School Trip
Nagito and the other remnants of Despair are found by the Future Foundation. Makoto plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program.

Inside a boat on the way to Jabberwock Island, Nagito talks with Izuru Kamukura, another member of the Ultimate Despair. However, Nagito doesn't know who Izuru is, having his memory of him wiped by Junko, and Izuru considers Nagito very boring.

Izuru Kamukura possesses the AI version of Junko, which he plans to upload into the program so she can take over their bodies. Nagito seems unaware of this plan at first, but then explains his desire to meet and destroy AI Junko, as he didn't have the chance to kill the real Junko. He then becomes increasingly confused about his feelings and thus his motives remain unclear.

Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Nagito was the first character of the second game that appeared. He was looking down on the protagonist, Hajime, who just regained his consciousness after he fainted from shock. He expresses worry towards Hajime and introduces himself.

Nagito and the others find themselves on the tropical Jabberwock Island, not knowing that it's a virtual world and that they've lost their memories. Usami acts as their teacher and tells them that it's a school trip.

Nagito acted polite and kind towards everyone, even willing to accompany Hajime as he introduced himself to the other students. He didn't look stressed at all, despite knowing that he and the others were somehow transported to a strange island, which leads Hajime to wonder if he has suffered a lot of trauma in his life. He displays some affection towards his fellow students when introducing them to Hajime.

When Monokuma takes over Usami and explains the Mutual Killing Game, Nagito realizes that the Ultimates are truly trapped on the island.

Chapter 1 - Destination Despair
When Monokuma reveals that the Ultimates have lost their memories of their school lives, Nagito plans to start the killings in order to become a stepping stone for hope and allow for at least one of the Ultimates to escape the island, believing that the survivor would become the absolute hope.

After the Ultimate Imposter became the group's leader, Nagito sends him a nameless warning letter saying that a murder will definitely happen soon. When the Ultimate Imposter suggests throwing a party, Nagito sets up a lot to determine the party duties, and through his "Ultimate Luck", ends up being the one assigned to clean the old lodge. He prepares a murder by hiding a glow in the dark knife, but was eventually discovered by Teruteru, who had duties to prepare food for the party. In fact, Nagito lets himself be discovered on purpose and explains his plan to Teruteru as he tries to manipulate the Ultimate Cook into killing him.

Nagito's plan was to trip the circuit breaker to cause a blackout. During this blackout, he used a lamp cord to lead himself to the table, under which he hid the knife covered in glowing paint. Just as he was about to grab the glowing knife, he was discovered by the Ultimate Imposter, who brought night vision goggles in preparation. The Ultimate Imposter rushed towards Nagito, pushed him out from under the table and retrieved the knife. This saved Nagito's life, but the Ultimate Imposter was then stabbed by Teruteru, who was hiding under the floorboards intending to kill Nagito with an iron skewer.

Nagito then investigates the murder with Hajime, giving him lots of hints, but not revealing too much. He decides to be on Teruteru's side during the class trial, believing that he has the greater potential for hope. He acts suspicious on purpose and reveals his true colors as he tries to make the others think he's the murderer. In the end, everyone realizes that Nagito isn't the real culprit and they become suspicious of Teruteru. Realizing that Teruteru has reached the limits of his hope, Nagito stops defending him and the Ultimate Cook is executed.

After the revelations during the trial, everyone is left distrustful of Nagito. He tells everyone that they're free to kill him and that he is even ready to cooperate with his killer.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and Coconuts
Later on, Nagito is visited by Kazuichi and Nekomaru, who plan to tie him up to avoid another incident happening again. Once again, Nagito starts to talk about hope and his wish to become a stepping stone, but he is silenced and struck unconscious by Kazuichi. He is left alone and tied up inside the old lodge.

After information about this made its' way through the group, various students were assigned to provide him with meals (though Kazuichi and Nekomaru claim they were not going to let him starve.) Mahiru Koizumi went to deliver Nagito his meals and he asked her about Monokuma's new motive. She explains the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case and Nagito suggests she should play it. Nagito then requests to have toast, as he doesn't really like rice, which causes Mahiru to leave annoyed. Mahiru is tired with this chore and tells Hajime to bring Nagito the meal instead. Nagito is happy to see Hajime and asks if he's going to feed him, since his own hands are tied up and it would've been embarrassing to ask a girl to do it. Nagito then asks about Mahiru and tries to convince Hajime to play Twilight Syndrome Murder Case, but Hajime doesn't want to be tricked by him again and leaves without feeding him.

After Mahiru is murdered, Nagito is untied by Monomi, who naively trusts him as she thinks that everyone should cooperate and investigate together. He then goes to play Twilight Syndrome Murder Case to find clues. He meets with Hajime and Chiaki, but an angry Hajime tells both him and Monomi to go away. Nagito says he's a bit lonely, but he obeys and goes to investigate alone.

Thanks to the game's true ending, Nagito knows the characters in the game were Mahiru, Hiyoko, Ibuki Mioda, Mikan, Sato, Fuyuhiko and Natsumi. He goes to see the four of them and lies by telling them that they all have to come to the airport or else Monokuma will execute them. Fuyuhiko doesn't open his door, so Nagito leaves him be. He goes to wait outside Jabberwock Park for Hajime and Chiaki, and explains that everyone is meeting at the airport by his request. After talking with the girls, Nagito leaves to investigate once again. With Monokuma's help, he goes inside everyone's cottages to take a sample of their footprints. He also notices lots of gummies inside Hiyoko's cottage and takes a bag with him, as it might be evidence.

Nagito meets with Hajime and Chiaki again, after they finish investigating Mahiru's cottage. Nagito claims it's a coincidence, but Hajime isn't convinced and thinks he might be a stalker. Nagito says he only came to explain the results of his investigations and when Hajime asks about it, Nagito suddenly says that he will tell him more if Hajime bows to him and licks his shoes. Nagito says that it was just a joke and asks Hajime to come to the beach house if he wants to know more about the footprints. Chiaki leaves to see Fuyuhiko and Nagito notices that Hajime clearly wanted her to stay with him.

At the beach house, everyone is shocked to see Nagito free. He thanks Kazuichi for going easy on him earlier and when Sonia Nevermind explains about the serial killer Sparkling Justice, he says that no good can come from getting involved with a serial killer, referencing his past experience with a one. Nagito was able to deduce the owner of the footprint left on the beach, Hiyoko Saionji.

During the class trial, the culprit's trap was also foiled by Nagito, when he stated that the yellow gummy was deliberately abandoned by the culprit to frame Hiyoko. Hiyoko had never eaten yellow gummies, evidenced by the pack of gummies that Nagito found in Hiyoko's cottage. Because of this, Hajime, Nagito, and Chiaki are able to deduce that Peko Pekoyama killed Mahiru.

During Peko's execution, Fuyuhiko runs to help her and gets wounded, too. At first, Nagito is angered and upset because a clash between two hopes ended with both destroyed. However, Fuyuhiko turns out to be alive, and now satisfied, Nagito concludes that Fuyuhiko was Peko's hope and Peko was Fuyuhiko's stepping stone.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean Scent
The next morning, Nagito along with Gundham Tanaka arrive at the restaurant late, which breaks the cozy atmosphere. He attended Fuyuhiko's welcoming party held by Ibuki, though he wasn't fond of Ibuki's loud songs.

Later, he, Ibuki, and Akane caught the "Despair Disease", the third motive. As a result, Nagito could only tell lies and caught a high fever. Presumably due to his already ill state, he suffered from Despair Disease the most out of the three, quickly lost consciousness and was close at dying. Mikan kept nursing him and when he occasionally regained consciousness, he saw her eyes and realized that they were full of despair.

Nagito fully regained consciousness around the time when the third murder occurred. He and the other patients were quickly cured by Monokuma so they could start investigating. During the investigation, Nagito was more motivated than usual and kept talking about how the case was special. He suspected that Mikan was the killer and gathered multiple clues. Nagito also invited Hajime to watch Monokuma's movie at the cinema and told him to keep the ticket safe.

At the beginning of the class trial, Nagito proved Hajime's innocence with the ticket. He was able to deduce Mikan as the culprit and how she murdered Ibuki and Hiyoko. With the state she was in, he called Mikan "Ultimate Despair" and bitterly refused to forgive her because she killed for the sake of despair instead of hope. Mikan told him that he's wrong and claimed that she had killed for "her beloved". Somewhat mockingly, she said that Nagito doesn't understand because he doesn't have anyone to love and isn't accepted by anyone, leaving him at a loss for words.

Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Electric Clocks?
The next morning, Nagito thinks about the mysterious person who was Mikan's beloved. He also thinks that Hajime is possibly the traitor, because his Ultimate talent is still unknown.

After everyone is trapped in the fourth island's Fun House, Monokuma lets them starve until a murder happens. Nagito would even offer himself to be eaten to help the others escape (this is mentioned if Hajime speaks to him during free-time).

After Nekomaru is murdered, Nagito becomes playable for the first time. In order to help with the investigation, he took it upon himself to go into the Final Dead room and play the life threatening game. Using his incredible deduction skills and assisted by Monomi, he managed to clear all of the challenging puzzles scattered throughout the room and earn the right to play Russian Roulette to access the Octagon and the Ultimate Weapon inside it.

With a large amount of faith in his ability as the Ultimate Lucky Student, Nagito loaded the revolver with five bullets instead of one, and pulled the trigger against his head, giving him a one in six chance of surviving. He managed to survive, thanks to his talent and was granted access into the Octagon.

By completing the Final Dead Game, Nagito learned about the Fun House's structure and realized that the building itself is the Ultimate Weapon. Due to completing the Russian Roulette with such a high difficulty, he also got a special prize from Monokuma, the sequel to the first Future Foundation file they had obtained earlier after riding the roller coaster. It revealed absolutely everything - the truth of the students' identities as Ultimate Despair, their actions while at school and after, the truth about the virtual world they're in, Hajime's lack of talent and his new identity as Izuru Kamukura. Nagito purged the most revealing data and only left their school profiles.

Knowing that he and everyone else are Ultimate Despair, Nagito quickly came up with a plan to kill everyone for the sake of hope. He began to plan his own suicide and brought a bomb and deadly poison with him from the Octagon. He seemed to believe that by destroying the Ultimate Despair, he would become Ultimate Hope and he might finally be appreciated, if only in death.

Later, Nagito met with Hajime and Chiaki. He mocked Hajime about his lack of talent, but interestingly he also mentioned a little hint about his future plans when he compared the murders of Class 78th's Killing School Life and the Killing School Trip. He mentioned that the murders had similarities and Class 78th's fourth murder was a suicide, which could mean something.

During the investigation, Nagito acted haughty and easily irritated towards everyone else as well, but didn't reveal his reasons for it. However, just before the class trial, he admitted to Hajime that he still cares about him. He also hinted at Hajime's identity as Izuru Kamukura by talking about a book in which the protagonist is revealed to be the killer in the end.

The students were able to discover and vote for the correct culprit that murdered Nekomaru. The culprit was none other than the Ultimate Breeder Gundham Tanaka. The students received a lot of help from Nagito because he knew the "secret" of the Fun House, though he kept acting impatient, arrogant and much more uninterested in the trials than before.

At night, after the trial, Nagito met with Monokuma and tried to get some information from the bear (concerning the student profiles and the "someone" Monokuma is waiting for on the island.) However, Monokuma refused to give a real answer.

Chapter 5 - Smile at Hope in the Name of Despair
With the knowledge he now possessed, Nagito came up with a plan to weed out the traitor among the group, as the traitor would be the only innocent one. The others noticed that his behavior became even stranger and more distant than before.

Nagito set off an explosion in the hotel lobby, then threatened to blow up the rest of the island with bombs that he planted unless the traitor reveals themselves. However, this was just a bluff, as he only had one real bomb and the rest were just harmless fireworks he found from the army facility. As his deadline drew nearer, Nagito informed the group that the "explosives" were located in a place they have each been once, in an attempt to get them to split up. In a fit of rage, Akane almost strangled Nagito to death, but she was stopped by Chiaki.

While the others were looking for the "bombs", Nagito prepared a very complex suicide; he would trust his luck and make the traitor murder him by proxy, and make the murderer's identity unclear to everyone else as well - during the trial, his classmates wouldn't be able to reach a conclusion and be executed, while the traitor alone would be spared.

To make it look like he was tortured by someone, (and to cause himself bad luck that would turn into good luck) Nagito tied himself up, covered his mouth with duck tape, stabbed through his own hand, cut his arms and thighs multiple times with an army knife, and impaled his stomach with a spear.

By the time Fuyuhiko had discovered the bomb's location, Nagito's classmates had also found a laptop which had been prepared by Nagito. It had a video message instructing the traitor to come forward and scan their e-Handbook in order to disarm the bomb. The video message claimed that Nagito already figured out the traitor's identity, but this was a bluff. After a failed attempt by Chiaki, everyone found out the truth about the "bombs" and angrily went to the warehouse next door to confront Nagito, like the video instructed. When the group opened the door, it was dark and they could only hear very loud, eerie music. Unknown to them, they tipped over Monokuma panels and a lighter prepared by Nagito, starting a fire. The group immediately took the fire grenades from the employee's lounge and attempted to douse the fire, not knowing that Nagito had planted vaporizing poison inside one of them. The poison reached Nagito on the far back of the building and killed him almost instantly. After the sprinklers kicked in and extinguished the flames, the group discovered Nagito's horribly tortured body. Just like he planned and thanks to his Ultimate Luck, the one who threw the poison at him and unknowingly murdered him was the traitor - Chiaki Nanami.

During the investigation, Hajime and Chiaki found many clues and evidence inside Nagito's cottage, and it's later implied during the class trial that Nagito wanted to give his classmates a chance.

During the Class Trial, the group was able to deduce that Nagito committed suicide, however, it was not as it seemed. After they understood more and more about the case, Hajime came to the conclusion that Nagito's goal was to create a mystery that could not be solved. In an attempt to save her friends, Chiaki revealed herself as the traitor and she was executed. After the events of the trial, Monokuma revealed that Nagito's true plan was to kill everyone except for Chiaki in an attempt to destroy the Ultimate Despair that he knew they all truly were.

At the next day, Hajime and others found Nagito's last message on the laptop, in which he explained that he did what he did because he managed to learn the truth about "this world". He revealed the password to the ruins and explained that everyone can escape Monokuma with it. Believing that his actions will become the foundation of world's hope, he asked the others to praise him, tell others about him, respect him, erect a bronze statue of him and call him the Ultimate Hope.

During the end of chapter 5, many "dead" characters appeared as the Neo World Program's glitches. However, Nagito was not among them.

Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of Despair
During the final class trial against AI Junko, Nagito briefly appears during "the game reset".

Epilogue - The Day Before the Future
At this point, Nagito is most likely in comatose, just like most of his classmates.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no Hakaimono
Illusory World
Main article: Nagito Komaeda (Illusion)

Real-life
Nagito finally wakes up in the real world and Hajime helped him up, similarly to the way Nagito helped Hajime the first time they met inside the program. Nagito rejoined his classmates in friendly terms and is glad to see that real Kazuichi and Fuyuhiko are still alive. He also removes Junko's hand and it is replaced with a robotic one. In the end, he took Hajime's hand as they move aboard, deciding to go forward towards hope.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc
Episode 01 - Third Time's the Charm
In a flashback, Nagito, as a member of Ultimate Despair, willingly surrendered himself to the Warriors of Hope as their "Servant", seen in the beginning of the episode.

Episode 7 - Ultra Despair Girls
The Servant was mentioned by Monaca, telling Komaru and Toko how he made her an "adult" because of his constant rambling about hope and despair, causing her to lose interest in despair and pretty much everything.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair
It was revealed that Nagito, just like the other comatose students from Class 77-B, woke from his coma. He and the rest of his class were shown to have escaped Jabberwock Island and went to the Future Foundation branch where the Final Killing Game was held.

Once there, Nagito's luck saved Makoto from a group of brainwashed Future Foundation members after he kicked a pebble that coincidentally caused a landslide that buried the Former Ultimate Elite Task Force.

Later, Nagito rejoined the rest of Class 77-B to stop Ryota from spreading the brainwashing video. Shortly afterwards, much to Nagito's delight, he met Makoto and expressed how lucky he was to have a talented underclassman like Makoto who shared his talent of luck. However, Nekomaru and Akane carried Nagito away before he could go overboard with his praise. It was explained that Class 77-B will carry the weight of being Ultimate Despair, take the blame for the Future Foundation killing game (even though none of them were the mastermind of the game), and seek atonement for the terrible things they did.

Afterwards, Nagito, together with Class 77-B, left the island by ship. The class was shown eating Teruteru's cooking. Nagito called Hajime to join them, and they ate together with the rest of the class.

While Class 77-B were leaving the island, Mikan took out a vial of a drug and explained that she found someone who used the drug to save themselves from the poison in their bracelet after violating their NG code, so she was able to revive them from a near-death state. Nagito took the vial from Mikan and immediately recognized the drug as Seiko's work. He praised Seiko for her talents and for being able to create hope even in the midst of a killing game.

Relationships
Family:
Nagito's relationship with his family is unclear. It's mentioned that he didn't have any relatives besides his parents. He mentions that they took him to an amusement park and they went on a family vacation together, but also mentions off the cuff that his mother never complimented his appearance.

When Nagito talks about his parents' deaths to Hajime, he is disturbingly optimistic and believes it was good luck since he inherited all of their fortune and became free to do whatever he wished. However, it's strongly implied that he just suppresses his feelings of sorrow as a way to cope, since tragedies are very common in his life. His parents died in an airplane and later in the Island Mode he is seen to be very terrified by the mere idea of aircrafts.

As a child, Nagito was very close with the family's pet dog and he was deeply saddened by his death. Because of Nagito's bad luck, the dog was hit by a truck.

Love Interests:
Hajime Hinata
In Danganronpa 2, Hajime was the only person Nagito was genuinely interested in and cared for in any meaningful way.

From the start, Nagito was particularly interested in Hajime, and was the only one to stay with him after he lost consciousness at the beginning of the game. He also escorted Hajime while he introduced himself to the others. Nagito noticed that he and Hajime were similar somehow as if they were both bystanders in something that didn't concern them. Hajime also didn't feel like an Ultimate to Nagito and they were both fans of Hope's Peak Academy. Nagito suggested that Hajime's talent could be Ultimate Serenity, because even Hajime's mere presence brought him serenity. Though sometimes annoyed by Nagito, Hajime also felt more relaxed around him. Prior to the chapter 1 trial, Hajime was the closest thing Nagito had to a friend.

After revealing the part he played in the first case, Hajime felt betrayed and terrified by Nagito, whom he had previously trusted and thought to be a good friend. Nagito was genuinely hurt and surprised when Hajime started to dislike him, but he still kept trying to talk to Hajime and helped him with most investigations, as well as being very happy every time Hajime noticed him. During the Class Trials, he mostly observed Hajime, both challenging and aiding him. In Chapter 3, he specifically made sure that Hajime can prove his innocence and thus doesn't become a suspect. He remained fixated on Hajime even after he was revealed to be a talentless reserve course student and part of Ultimate Despair. While he liked Hajime for their similarities, he then appeared to project some of the traits he hates about himself into Hajime. Even though he acted harsh and bitter towards him, in the dialogue directly preceding the Chapter 4 trial he states that he still cares about Hajime, though he doesn't understand why. If Hajime tries to spend time with Nagito during Chapter 5, when Nagito is unbeknownst to him planning his own murder, Nagito suddenly doesn't appear hostile at all at the moment and with a smile he tells Hajime that he's happy he's asking someone like him, but he is busy at the moment. Somewhat wistfully, he tells Hajime not to worry about him and have fun spending time with the others. After his death, he mentions in his recording that he shouldn't have been so hard on Hajime. While denying it, Hajime in turn strongly wishes to understand Nagito. In Chapter 5, Hajime's understanding of Nagito is what thwarted his plan.

It is revealed that Nagito's feelings for Hajime are romantic in nature. Several times throughout the story, it's shown that Nagito feels a genuine closeness to Hajime, such as when he claimed he doesn't like being around him and to hurry up and leave when under the influence of the despair disease which forced him to lie. He indicates that the reason he feels this way is because despite knowing what kind of person he is, Hajime still tried to understand him and spent time with him while no one else never did. This is confirmed in the official drama CD, in which Nagito tells Hajime: "I'll continue to do anything in my power to assist you. Because... I like you. I love you, for being willing to talk to me like this, even after knowing what a hopelessly incompetent person I am...".

In his fifth Free Time Events, Nagito reveals a lot of personal things to Hajime, telling him about his terminal diseases and his biggest wish being to be loved for once before he dies. He falsely dismisses what he just said as lies, probably for the sake of Hajime's safety, since Hajime was about to forgive Nagito and he would've been in danger if they got too close due to the effects of Nagito's bad luck. The way that Japanese sentence structure works, of Nagito's last line in particular - starts off as the beginning of a confession, that he decides to rephrase at the last second into him being in love with Hajime's hope instead. Furthermore, his choice of word being "aishiteru" is notable, as it's an incredibly strong way of saying "love" that in real life Japan, even some married couples are hesitant to use.

In Island Mode, Nagito really wants to entertain Hajime during their trips but is paranoid over his safety. He is also often quite nervous due to being inexperienced in many social situations, and supposedly because of his feelings towards Hajime (for example, he enjoys the quiet library with him, only to get very nervous after realizing that the two of them are alone). During his Shot Through The Heart sequence, he is terrified of the idea that Hajime might hate him. After a particularly good outing with Hajime, he refers to the hotel as their "love nest". He also states that he doesn't mind getting naked in case Hajime wants to see that. In the final event, he reveals that his way of thinking has slowly started to change thanks to the time he spent with Hajime. He seems to try confessing his feelings again, but chooses to ask Hajime to be his friend instead, which the latter agrees to.

In Nagito's character song, Poison -gekiyaku-, he mentions that he loves and wants to understand an ambiguous "him" more than anyone else.

In Super Danganronpa 2.5, it's shown that Nagito's mind created an illusion world as a coping mechanism and he did not wake up from his coma. However, the world lacks counterparts for Hajime and Chiaki, most likely because his emotions concerning them were too powerful. Hajime sent the World Destroyer to erase his mental blocks and right after hearing the alter ego's voice, which is exactly like Hajime's, Nagito had flashbacks and remembered Hajime and his smile (along with Jabberwock Island and his death in the program). After waking up in the real world, Nagito rejoined Hajime in friendly terms. At first, he assumed he was Izuru, but then corrected himself by saying he must be Hajime. Hajime helped him up in the way that resembles their first meeting inside the program. Nagito says he believed in Hajime to wake him up and later he takes Hajime's hand as the class moves aboard, planning to go towards hopeーthis references Side: Hope and also seems to imply that he considers being with Hajime his hope.

At the end of Danganronpa 3, after helping Makoto and others, Nagito and his classmates decide to go back and live in Jabberwock island. While everyone on the boat is eating, Nagito calls out to Hajime that the food is almost gone and to hurry up. Hajime smiles brightly and runs over to him, and the two of them eat side by side. Even though Hajime earlier explained that he is now both Hajime and Izuru, Nagito continues to call him Hajime.

In an Otomedia poster, which was released after the anime, Nagito is seen giving Hajime a small bag of fortune cookies as a gift while they are on the ship, presumably after the anime's story. The pink hearts and the text mentioning eating cookies full of hope with "him" (using the Japanese word "kare" [彼] which means "him" or "boyfriend" depending on context), implies that it might be a romantic gesture. In the magazine's interview, Nagito is asked what autumn food reminds him of Hajime. He answers a "chestnut in its burr", comparing it to Hajime's hair, but after being told it's too normal of an answer, he goes on to explain that to properly eat one you have to go through a lot of work. He states that "Not being straightforward… it’s like Hinata-kun, right?". In turn, Hajime answers that Nagito reminds him of "the rice of a new crop" (referring to rice freshly harvested during the fall season) because of Nagito's hair's color. He also mentions that due to Nagito's "poor grip on reality", it's difficult to appoint him to a food with distinct taste.

Nagito has also more or less jokingly compared Hajime to a tsundere character more than once due to his occasionally annoyed mood in his company. In Danganronpa 2, during his Free Time Events, he suggests Hajime's unknown talent could be "tsuntsun hair", referring to both his aloof personality and spiky hair. This was translated as "Ultimate Spiky Hair" in the localization, and while it's not incorrect, it loses the additional joke regarding Hajime's personality. Nagito laughs and clearly finds his joke very funny, but Hajime annoyedly answers that it isn't even a talent. Nagito later called him "tsuntsun hair" again in the Danganronpa 3 related magazine interview.

In the non-canonical Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Nagito Komaeda, Nagito seemingly dislikes Hajime at first and acted harsh and occasionally condescending towards him due to him being a reserve course student. He assumed that Hajime spent time with the Ultimates only to suck up to them and feel better about himself. However, Nagito claimed he doesn't actually dislike Hajime, and appeared reluctantly interested in spending time with him. The two had a slight argument after Hajime came to play basketball with the Ultimates, which left Nagito silent in thought and he then decided to cheer for all the players even though he had "complicated feelings" about it. Nagito's attitude slowly changes when he realizes that Hajime genuinely wants to spend time with him, though he cannot comprehend why anyone would want that. In three years, they become friends and Nagito tells Hajime about his luck and how it has affected his life. During their last Christmas in school, Nagito and Hajime talk alone while the other students are celebrating. Hajime reminds the other boy that the class will definitely keep in touch and see each other again, though Nagito thinks nobody would invite him. Hajime tells him that Chiaki would and he just has to accept her invitation. Nagito asks why Hajime cares about him and still hasn't lost interest in someone like him. Hajime explains that he still doesn't understand Nagito and he refuses to leave it like that. He formally asks Nagito to be his friend and the two shake hands, though Nagito seems to want to hold his hand longer. Nagito wonders if it's going to change anything, but Hajime tells him that maybe like this they could really change something and understand each other some day.

Class 77-B:
Chisa Yukizome
Chisa was Nagito's homeroom teacher in Hope's Peak Academy. He appears to like Chisa quite a bit, as he was surprised when she bothered to look for a "nobody" like him and cheerfully laughed while complimenting how wonderful teacher she is. He also kept laughing when Chisa called him "rotten orange", completely oblivious to the fact that it wasn't a compliment.

Chisa truly cared for Nagito just as much as her other students, but completely disagreed with his way of thinking. Chisa hated how Nagito called himself trash and tried to change that, but Nagito firmly held onto his own personal beliefs. Nagito is surprised when Chisa shows genuine concern towards him, as people usually do not care about him.

Even after Nagito causes a bombing that gets her into trouble, Chisa protects him by placing the blame on herself, which was why she was transferred to the Reserve Course and Nagito wasn't expelled. When the other students clearly don't like nor miss Nagito, Chisa tries to tell them that he's their classmate and that he did what he did for them.

Chiaki Nanami
Real-Life Version
Chiaki was Nagito's classmate prior to the Tragedy. She was also his class's representative, and Nagito respected her, thinking she was their class's hope. Chiaki seemed to genuinely care about him, although she did not agree with his way of looking at things. Chiaki is the only one out of her classmates who greeted Nagito warmly when he comes back after being suspended for about a year.

Later, Nagito inadvertently puts Chiaki's life in danger when he shows her a secret entrance to a room underground, where Junko, Izuru, and Ryota Mitarai were hiding. Chiaki tries to stop Nagito from killing Junko, Nagito ignores her but is ultimately shot by Izuru first. Chiaki holds him in a protective manner while he is unconscious.

When forced to watch Chiaki be executed by Junko, Nagito had quite a rare reaction as he cried over her death and thought it was horrible. However, he then begun to laugh madly while simultaneously crying, viewing her as a stepping stone for their hope upon her death.

Interestingly, in Danganronpa 2.5, neither Chiaki nor Hajime have counterparts in Nagito's imaginary world. Since Chiaki's death was a major reason behind the class' despair, it is possible that his emotions concerning her were too powerful and the program blocked the memory of her.

In the Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Chiaki is described as a person who would always invite Nagito to the group activities, with even Nagito understanding this despite his constant self-deprecation. When the graduation gets closer, Chiaki shows consideration towards him as she sees him alone in the corner and goes to ask him if he's having fun. Nagito claims that of course he's having fun and then talks about everyone's hopes, with Chiaki saying that's fine, though her face appears a bit sad and disappointed seemingly because of him still talking like that. Chiaki admits that she still doesn't really understand him after all the years together, but she says that she knows hope is really important to him. Nagito explains to her that everyone wants hope, not just him, but he just thinks about it more than others. Nagito admits that he's a bit disappointed that nothing big happened to make hope stronger, but Chiaki thinks it's a good thing and that everyone can spend time together happily in the future.

AI Version
Nagito does not seem to notice Chiaki that much at first, noting that she's a quiet girl who mostly plays video games and stares into space. However, he later appears to have a genuine respect for her deduction skills. In the Funhouse, he asks her to investigate with him, and is worried when she leaves the group without anyone noticing.

Though Nagito is unaware of it, Chiaki cared about him and she was also the traitor he tried to save in the end, though this failed.

Ultimate Imposter
Nagito respected Ultimate Imposter and their leadership skills when they were impersonating Byakuya Togami. However, because of this, he involved him in his plan. The plan was originally meant to lead to Nagito's own death, but Ultimate Imposter died instead, saving Nagito's life. While Nagito did not feel remorse for what happened, he was genuinely impressed and said he even began to have a small will to live after the Imposter's actions.

Mikan Tsumiki
At first, Nagito worries about Mikan, as he scolds Hajime after thinking he bullied her and asks if she's okay after having one of her many exaggerated falls. He is also very humbled during the first trial, when he mistakenly assumed that Mikan complimented his appearance when she pointed out that there wasn't any blood on him.

After Nagito caught the Despair Disease, Mikan took care of him along with the others. However, she also caught the disease, and despite his terrible condition, he noticed that she had fallen into despair. Because of this, and the murders she committed for the sake of despair, Nagito lost all respect for her and considered her an enemy, worthy of the name "Ultimate Despair". Unlike the others, he wasn't fooled by her act during the trial and he bitterly refused to forgive her.

However, Mikan told Nagito that he's wrong and claimed that she had killed for "her beloved". Somewhat mockingly, she said that Nagito doesn't understand because he doesn't have anyone to love and isn't accepted by anyone, leaving him at a loss for words.

Later though, after Nagito and Mikan awaken from their comatose state, he doesn't seem to hold anymore hatred towards her. This probably means that Nagito's original relationship with Mikan, which was mostly him not paying attention to her, although thinking her talent is amazing, has returned.

Kazuichi Soda
After trial one, Kazuichi finds Nagito to be a nutcase and is afraid of him. He and Nekomaru are the ones who tie up Nagito and Kazuichi is the one who punches him unconscious. When this happens, and everyone asks where Nagito is, Kazuichi seems extremely suspicious and he's almost immediately blamed for murder. Later, after Kazuichi loses his trust in Hajime, he is even willing to go with Nagito to investigate instead of him.

After the events leading to Nagito's knowledge of the classes' true identity as Ultimate Despair, Nagito appears to be annoyed by Kazuichi's slow-wittedness and shows this openly after losing respect for the other students.

In Danganronpa 3, during their school years, Kazuichi claims that bad things happen to him whenever Nagito is around. For example, he loses a video game and gets hit by a truck. Kazuichi dislikes Nagito because of this, though the other boy is seemingly oblivious about it. Considering how Nagito's luck cycle works, this could imply that he wishes to be friends with Kazuichi.

In Super Danganronpa 2.5, Nagito indeed imagines Kazuichi as one of his closest friends while being inside his imaginary world, along with Fuyuhiko. The two seem to be on better terms with each other even after Nagito awakens from his coma into the real world, as Kazuichi and Fuyuhiko wait for him to greet him before boarding the boat and overall appear friendlier with him, with Kazuichi teasing him by asking him if he was dreaming about pretty girls. Though, Nagito then hugs the two, making them uncomfortable.

Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu
During the killing school trip, Fuyuhiko disliked Nagito due to his potentially dangerous behavior and strange way of speaking, and would often cooperate in plans to see Nagito restrained, such as when Nagito had threatened to blow up Jabberwock Island.

However, Fuyuhiko was also shown to be very worried of Nagito when he almost died from the Despair Disease. At one point, when he was still being a loner, Fuyuhiko even defended Nagito after he was tied up and wasn't present, accusing the other students of being messed up sheeps who turn against their "buddies" immediately if they don't like them (seemingly because this behavior reminded Fuyuhiko of the way people treat him).

In Super Danganronpa 2.5, Nagito imagines Fuyuhiko as one of his closest friends while being inside his imaginary world, who understands that him being an occasional "creep" is just the way he is. The two seem to be on better terms with each other even after Nagito awakens from his coma into the real world, as Fuyuhiko and Kazuichi wait for him to greet him before boarding the boat and overall appear friendlier with him. Though, Nagito then hugs the two, making them uncomfortable.

Teruteru Hanamura
While Nagito tries to be respectful towards the Ultimates, it's quite clear that he dislikes Teruteru. In the beginning of the school trip, he protects the girls from him and tells him to stop when he is acting perverted, appearing annoyed and uncomfortable. He also mentions that he'll keep an eye on Teruteru because of this.

After the first murder, Nagito helped Teruteru, believing that he might have the strongest hope between the two sides. However, after this turned out to be false, he abandoned Teruteru and told him to give up.

In Danganronpa 3, during their time at Hope's Peak, Teruteru is shown to be very grateful when Nagito gave him a magazine with Sayaka on the cover. Despite this, it's later shown that Teruteru does not miss him when he is gone, just like the other students. Later, when Nagito is unconscious, Teruteru offers to carry him, stating that he's still within his strike zone (supposedly referring to the fact that he finds him attractive looking while his personality isn't that attractive).

During the ending s, when the class is on the beach, Teruteru is covered in octopuses and tries to offer one to Nagito, who appears to politely decline.

Sonia Nevermind
During the beginning of the Killing School Trip, Nagito was always the one who protected Sonia from Teruteru's sexual harassment. He was flattered when she drew a picture of him for his door while they were in the Funhouse.

Gundham Tanaka
Gundham appears strange even for Nagito, as even he is confused by the other's eccentric behavior. During the Despair Disease, Gundham states that he would not mind if Nagito died, but it should be noted that he also appears to be one of the few characters who understands that Nagito has grey morale instead of black and white.

Class 76th:
Seiko Kimura
Nagito learns about Seiko from Teruteru and asks a laxative from her, to use in his secret plan to stop the practical exams. He is shown to be polite and friendly with her, and she is extremely happy after learning that she was useful for him.

Unintentionally, Nagito causes Seiko to be expelled from Hope's Peak Academy. In a magazine interview, he states that because of this her talent must not have been so great after all.

However, years later, Nagito changes his mind about her after recognizing her medicine that saved Kyoko Kirigiri's life. He respects Seiko, as she was able to create hope during a killing game, even after she had died.

Class 78th:
Junko Enoshima
Prior to the Tragedy and during his suspension, Nagito learned about Junko’s plan to throw the world into despair. Wanting to test her to see if she was worthy of becoming a stepping stone for hope, Nagito devised a plan to kill her before she could spread despair. He is shown to have a sort of one-sided rivalry with Junko, as she has no interest in him and considers him just as unimportant as the rest of his class.

Upon being brainwashed into becoming an Ultimate Despair, Nagito developed strange, conflicting feelings of both love and hatred for Junko and saw her as his sworn enemy. This was most likely a result of both Junko's brainwashing and Nagito's own belief that hope cannot exist without despair. In Danganronpa Another Episode, Nagito describes Junko as someone he really hates, but in the end he reveals to Monaca Towa that he both loves and hates her, and he implies that he knew her very well, or at least thinks he did. Considering his very bizarre feelings about her, it's possible that he is just fabricating and doesn't know her that well at all.

After Junko was executed, Nagito cut off his left hand and put hers in its' place. He believes he did it because of his hatred towards her and to steal some essence of her power, but it's strongly implied that he, just like the other members, obsessed over her. While talking with Izuru, he became increasingly agitated and conflicted about why he did it. When talking about AI Junko with him, Nagito appeared very excited to see her again so he may finally kill her, since he had both tried and failed to kill the real Junko.

After he awakened from his coma and his brainwashing was removed, he presumably retained his original hatred towards her and cut off her hand.

Makoto Naegi
Nagito idolizes Makoto due to him being the Ultimate Hope, calling him a "hero" and "the symbol of hope" in Another Episode.

It is possible that Makoto defeating Junko has affected Nagito's way of thinking, as in Another Episode he appears to have more belief in talentless people and he also respects Makoto's talent as the Ultimate Lucky Student, despite appearing condescending towards his own talent which is the same.

When the two meet outside the Future Foundation headquarters, Nagito gushes to Makoto about how wonderful he is, and even says that Makoto's luck might be greater than his own. He takes Makoto's hand and looks at him intently, but he is quickly carried away by Nekomaru and Akane. He tells Makoto that hopefully they'll meet again. In the English dub, he marvels how soft Makoto's hands were, especially when compared to his own sticky hands.

In Danganronpa 2.5, it's shown that Nagito apparently imagines Makoto as a cool, smooth guy who is very popular with girls, though this is obviously very different from reality.

As a character, Nagito is a darker parallel to Makoto and was originally supposed to look even more like him.

In the bonus mode, Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Makoto mentions that he feels inferior when compared to him, due to this more powerful luck.

Ultimate Despair:
When Ultimate Despair was formed, Nagito joined because he wanted to witness despair rise and fall to hope. The members were brainwashed and fell madly in love with Junko, but Nagito's case was different. He developed strange, conflicting feelings of both love and hatred for Junko and saw her as his sworn enemy. Ironically, Nagito seems to be the most sane out of the brainwashed ones, as he is more aware of what they're doing and has the aforementioned hatred for Junko.

Monaca Towa
When Nagito was captured by the Warriors of Hope and became their Servant, Monaca seemed to be the only one aware of his true identity. Secretly, they became allies despite their different goals, and the Servant aided Monaca with her own goals. However, Monaca didn't share all of her information with him, as she didn't trust him completely.

Monaca was amused by the Servant's strange behavior and contradicting beliefs, and appeared to be somewhat annoyed with him at the times, as she once ordered the other Warriors of Hope to draw on his face. Even she was confused by his motives at times, not being sure which side he is on. She also found his strange, conflicting views on Junko disgusting. However, the two appeared to at least seemingly respect each other in some way, as they treated each other somewhat formally as allies.

The Servant planned on leaving and Monaca let him, believing that they will never see each other again. However, after Monaca was trapped under rubble, he appeared again and rescued her because he was disappointed with the situation's outcome and the neutral ending. He told her to become Junko's successor and that he could raise her to become more like her than even she herself was. Monaca seemed to agree with this goal, but the Servant's constant rambling about hope and despair made Monaca bored and feel embarrassed about the whole thing. She claims he made her an adult in a way, as she grew up in the mental sense and became more cynical and apathetic, not really caring about anything.

In the end, Monaca found Nagito creepy and annoying, but she also appeared to get closer to him during their time together—while originally calling him just "Mister Servant", she later refers to him as "Big Bro" in Danganronpa 3. It's unclear how Nagito felt about her in the end.

Izuru Kamukura
Despite getting shot by him, Nagito is almost immediately attracted to Izuru, supposedly because he can sense his identity as the Ultimate Hope. Kodaka has even described the scene as similar to a beautiful, elegant dance.

The ending song for Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, performed by Megumi Ogata as Nagito, is about "the birth of absolute hope" and Nagito meeting someone "he was born to meet" in the middle of the night at the school's campus. The song has sexual implications, especially in the Japanese wording, which is confirmed by Ogata.

When they meet again on a boat towards Jabberwock Island, they do not recognize each other, due to Izuru having Junko erase all of the class's memories of him. Nagito is very excited to talk to Izuru and he's happy when he responds, considering him "amazing". However, Izuru treats him coldly and considers him very boring. Nagito thought that they got along quite well and looked forward to meeting Izuru again, despite appearing slightly hurt by his coldness.

Both joined Ultimate Despair for the same reason: to see the ultimate battle between hope and despair.

Interestingly, in Super Danganronpa 2.5, the World Destroyer whose personality appears to be heavily based on Izuru is seen smiling lightly while talking to Nagito about hope.

Future Foundation Members:
Usami/Monomi
Like the other students, Nagito is annoyed by Usami. When Usami gives the students Usami Straps in the beginning of the school trip, Nagito is at first silent and continues smiling despite seeming clearly annoyed by the silly objects.

In the Final Dead Room, he is mostly annoyed by her and asks her not to get in his way, though he will also ask her what's wrong when she cries. Monomi is one of few who care about Nagito, and believes in his good side. She tries to tell him this, but he ignores her, likely not considering her a person since she is seemingly a slow-witted plush toy.

Others:
Komaru Naegi
To further Monaca's goal as well as his own, the Servant assists Komaru in order to make her develop into a hero (with him wanting her to become a symbol of hope, while Monaca wants her to fall into despair). He meets her after she survived a helicopter crash and gives her back the Hacking Gun she lost. However, for the sake of "game balance", he made the weapon considerably weaker so she can upgrade it later. He also saved her by distracting the Warriors of Hope after she accidentally mentioned possessing the gun. Afterwards, he orders the Monokuma Kids to give her items and transform her environment to resemble a real game, so she can slowly develop her weaker character into a stronger one. Using Byakuya as a hostage, he also makes Toko and Genocide Jack guide her towards the right direction.

The Servant can act somewhat condescending towards Komaru due to her being a boring and ordinary girl, though sometimes unintentionally. He tells her there's no need to be depressed about it, because the world is filled with people like her and she can empathize with them. He truly believes in Komaru's potential and has high hopes for the Ultimate Hope's sister, believing that someone as weak as her rising up would create a great amount of hope and she could even become the hope for the whole city. Komaru is at first confused by the Servant, and later appears a bit afraid of him after realizing how insane he is, not understanding his talk about hope at all.

Later, the Servant is a bit annoyed and disappointed when Komaru is about to leave the city and her friend Toko behind instead of "playing her role". After Komaru refuses to leave Toko and Toko appears unwilling to fight her, the Servant tries to have Genocide Jack take action instead. However, she turns against him and wishes to help Komaru. He quickly concludes that it must be friendship, genuinely considering it a beautiful thing, though finding it strange because Genocide Jack is a serial killer. Komaru protects the Servant from Genocide Jack and decides to stay with her and Toko. While watching the two girls' talking from the side, the Servant smiles and appears genuinely happy for them. He is also very proud of Komaru after hearing her talk in a much more positive and confident way, marveling how much wider her world has grown. Though the girls trust him very little, the Servant tells them he will support them until the very end.

Toko Fukawa/Genocide Jack
Using Byakuya as a hostage, the Servant orders Toko and Genocide Jack to assist Komaru on her journey. Toko strongly dislikes him, calling him a crazy idiot. She says that his speeches make her skin crawl and the word "hope" sounds disgusting when he says it. He simply states that it's an understandable reaction.

Both Toko and Genocide Jack find the Servant an attractive looking "pretty boy", but really dislike his personality. Since Genocide Jack kills men she is attracted to, she appears a bit confused by him, stating that part of her wants to kill him while part of her doesn't.

The Servant later understands that Toko and Genocide Jack have become friends with Komaru, even though Genocide Jack fiercely denies it at first. He states that he truly thinks their friendship is a splendid thing, though he finds it a bit strange because Genocide Jack is a serial killer. He also appears genuinely happy for the two while silently watching them from the side.

It's stated that the Servant is aware of Toko's personality type and he also knows that sneezing causes her to switch personalities, supposedly because he has watched the footage of Killing School Life.

Kurokuma
Kurokuma dislikes the Servant, considering him unimportant in his and Monaca's plans. He also thinks his views on hope are "fucking stupid" and very contradictory. He enjoys when something bad happens to him, like when he's being punished by the Warriors of Hope. He also mocks him by comparing him to the Japanese comedian known as Hard Gay.

While he has a very calm personality, even the Servant seems a bit annoyed by Kurokuma and sometimes chooses to ignore him.

Free Time
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Nagito Komaeda
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Nagito in order to learn more about him. If he gives Nagito a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Nagito will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Nagito's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Nagito's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567X
Nagito Komaeda's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
It's the opposite of despair	Hope is absolutely good	It's something that's not here
Being lucky	The opposite of bad luck	Absolute power
--	--	--
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 033 Hope's Peak Ring DR2 Present 090 Memory Notebook DR2 Present 091 Mukuro's Knife
Skills
Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Nagito grants the following skills:

Trance	Even low combos will increase the tempo.
Effective during the Panic Talk Action.	6 SP
Island Mode Choices
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Nagito Komaeda
Quotes
DRAEDR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls (English)

"I had heard this town would be safe, so I came here to seek refuge. But then, the riots... And on top of that, I get captured by them. I've seriously got no luck at all. But because I pleaded for my life, they allowed me to live...as their servant."
"Either you truly are completely exhausted, or you're simply afraid to wake up and face reality."
"You were asleep for a full two days. More than enough time for the world to change completely. Even our world can change just that quickly. Like a watercolor painting caught in the rain."
"Ahah, you honestly...don't have a single unique characteristic. Well, no need to be depressed about it. This world is filled with unremarkable people. And the only one capable of empathizing with common, boring people... is a common, boring person like yourself."
"Do your best, Miss Protagonist... With your lack of distinct characteristics. So common, so dull, so boring..."
Thanks for waiting! Here you go, some nice, freshly-made milkshakes. My sincerest apologies. I didn't know how to make them. And of course, I couldn't look it up... I did make sure to add the sugar and the rendered fat..."
"Komaru Naegi... Though you are "normal," not an Ultimate, or even a part of Future Foundation... I really do think quite poorly of the idea that you would abandon your friend and run off alone. Are you really going to just run away like this? Is your conscience clear?"
"That's right... People who are not needed in this scene should go and make their exit."
"When you first arrived at the hospital on your parachute, did you know why Toko turned up there? She came to save you because she was told where you would be landing. How else could you possibly explain such a contrived encounter? The reason Toko has been your companion through all this was because of her deal with me."
"Consider it "game balance," as they say. You've thought about it before, I'm sure. Why enemies conveniently drop items, why the path you must travel on to advance is always clear... The game began as a way for the children to have fun, but it was also a game to help you grow."
"Why was I so particular about choosing you? Well, that is all your brother's fault, of course. He defeated Junko Enoshima, the one I truly hate... And I wasn't there to witness it. That's why, this time around... I wanted to see the action up close."
"Her brother, a hero, the Symbol of Hope. The little sister, utterly boring by comparison... If someone like you were to stand against despair...that would bring hope to the people."
"Hope is exclusively found on the side of the weak. The losing side. People are touched by underdog stories. Slaying Goliath, the weaker team winning a game... The majority of society is made up of the weak and untalented. They are inspired by such tales. If my assumptions are correct... You will release a light even brighter than his."
"Please! Save this town from despair! Show me your dazzling light of hope to crush despair!"
"No matter how big the despair... Hope will always win in the end. That is why I feel no remorse becoming despair myself."
"No matter what kind of despair awaits you, hope will overcome it. The deeper and darker the despair... the brighter and more powerful the hope born from it.
"In order to get rid of all the despair, you first must let it flourish. Wait until the despair has grown to its largest size, and then burn it, all the way to the roots. And after that, only hope will remain. That is the world I seek."
Creation and development
From the start, Nagito was planned to be the main character's foil. His original design was based around the image of a shinigami (死神, "death god" or "death spirit"), the personification of death in Japanese culture.

Unlike Byakuya Togami from the first Danganronpa game, he was to be "an absolute rival", e.g. a relationship similar to the Joker in "Batman".

2nd Draft
Komaeda beta
Nagito's beta design. (2)

The second draft of Nagito's beta design had an ahoge, and the expression of his eyes was different from the other characters, composed of a set of thin and unstable lines.

It's implied that the character used to be Ultimate Hope, and while he wasn't as cheerful as Makoto, his demeanor used to be a lot more softer and gentle.

3rd Draft
Prototype komaeda
Nagito's beta design. (3)

The next, third draft of Nagito's beta design became the basis of the current Nagito. The idea behind the character changed and he was drawn based on the image of a dark-side version of Makoto, "a Makoto who fell to the dark side".

Similar to Makoto, the character was short in height, but also had longer hair, glasses and a black parka with a devil design. His eyes and ahoge changed during his "time of despair".

4th Draft
Prototype komaeda 2
Nagito's beta design. (4)

The fourth draft was a taller version of the third one - after the stage of regulating the balance between the 16 students was reached, the creators aimed for the position of a beauty and the character was given a tall stature.

He was very similar to the third draft, with glasses, black parka and his eyes and ahoge changing during the times of despair, but he was also specifically described as handsome.

4.5th Draft
Nagito's beta
Nagito's beta design. (4.5)

The next draft was known as the "young man version", as he was basically a slightly younger version of the fourth draft.

He had a more aggressive image than the current Nagito, and he "gave off an air of indifference with his discerning gaze".

Nagito Komaeda
Kazutaka Kodaka, the writer of the Danganronpa series, describes the current Nagito as "a strong rival". The creators didn't want to make him just an enemy, as he would've just been feared as the mastermind. However, they believed that a strong rival couldn't just be the mastermind's underling, either. With these thoughts in mind, Nagito was developed into a warped person displaying themes such as "the fear of someone you can’t empathize with/someone that can’t empathize", "contradictions" and "inversed hope". According to Kodaka, "It requires courage to draw a character holding contradictions, yet once I got over that I actually enjoyed making the portrayal".

The other ideas behind Nagito's character were "a dark hero", "a Makoto who took a step down the wrong path" and "a hope too extreme will become despair". Kodaka states that Nagito and Makoto are both the exact opposites of each other yet still extremely alike. He explains that Nagito exists because he wanted to convey such a theme in a vivid manner. "The matter of both resembling in looks may also be an inevitability, if you conform under the idea that outward appearance would grow closer the more the ideology would match".

According to the character designer, Rui Komatsuzaki, Nagito's excessive self-consciousness are remains from the initial design. Moreover, the jagged cuffs of his jacket hold origin from the tail-section of the devil-shaped parka of his fourth draft design. Nagito holds a lot of complicated nuances to his expressions and Rui repeatedly did adjustments while getting inspired by the performance of Nagito's voice actress Megumi Ogata. According to Rui, this increased Nagito's exceptional charm. "I especially like the portion of his hair that along with facing upwards would grow bland and quiver like a flame", he adds.

The Servant
At first, Nagito wasn't planned to have a proper appearance in Danganronpa Another Episode. Furthermore, he wasn't going to be named "Servant", but this was decided for the promo announcement.

Nagito was named simply just "Servant", because the Warriors of Hope didn't want to give him an identity due to him only being a servant. The impression of his aloof appearance was not changed, but his way of thinking was changed slightly when compared to the second game. He was given strange clothes in a sense that they would be recognizable from origin, and in chronological order would lead up and unite to the current image. The jacket was to be pictured as plain clothes, but the collar given by the children gives the design a "servant" nature.

Rui and Kodaka went through various designs (such as a school uniform suit and casual vest), as their likings contradicted each other and made it difficult to decide. Rui believes that the final design was the right choice for both of their preferences.

Trivia
"Nagito" (凪斗) as a name means "Calm Below the Dipper", as in the big dipper constellation, while "Komaeda" (狛枝) translates as "Lion-Dog Tree Branches". Lion-Dogs are statues that protect and guard shrines in Shintoism. The kanji used are rather old and classical, which may allude to an old family line or an upper class background (of which Nagito does have).
Nagito is born in the 28th day of the fourth month. In Japan, 4 is considered very unlucky because one of its pronunciations (shi) is similar to how you would pronounce "death." In China, 8 is a very lucky number because it is pronounced similarly to the word "fortune" (ba or fa). The word is also phonetically similar to the word for a "hundred" (bai), alluding to greater wealth, and the laid down 8 is a symbol of infinity. 28 equates to "double luck", meaning that his birth month represents bad luck while his birth day represents the double luck which cancels the aforementioned misfortune.
Nagito's Free-Time Events reveal that he was diagnosed with stage 3 malignant lymphoma and frontotemporal lobe dementia. While it is left ambiguous in the game, his illnesses and backstory are confirmed in the side materials as well as in his school profile in Danganronpa 3.
He appears to suffer from behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD), which symptoms may include changes in social and personal behavior, loss of insight into the behaviors of oneself and others, inappropriate social behavior, poor impulse control and judgement, apathy, loss of empathy, mental rigidity, repetitive compulsive behavior, a decline in self-care and personal hygiene, changes in food preferences, delusions, euphoria and lack of awareness of any thinking or behavior changes. Needless to say, this explains a good deal of Nagito's unethical behavior and emotional instability.
Other indications of his sickly state include his complexion, hair color and breathy voice. In Island Mode, it's mentioned that he has poor stamina, very sensitive skin and he seems to dislike running. His character profiling describes his "pallid skin of the diseased" as well as his hair color, which "doesn't look like it belongs on a living person".
The Despair Disease had a much worse effect on Nagito than anyone else and almost killed him, presumably because he was already very ill.
Izuru Kamukura mentions that Nagito has a scent of someone who is "already finished", referring to the fact that he should already be dead, but his luck is keeping him alive.
Nagito is shown to be attracted to characters of the same gender.
In Nagito's fifth Free Time Event in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair with Hajime, he ends his event with the line: "From the bottom of my heart... I am truly in love with the hope that sleeps inside you." In the original Japanese version of this line, Nagito using the unambiguous and very strong romantic word "aishiteiru" (愛している).
In Nagito's character song from Danganronpa Another Episode, Poison -劇薬- (lit. Poison -deadly drug-), Nagito sings in English about loving an ambiguous "him": "I love and want to understand him more than anyone else, more, more than anyone else."
In the Danganronpa Another Story (Crimson Version) drama CD, in a conversation between Nagito and Hajime, Nagito tells him: "I won't give up. I'll continue to do anything in my power to assist you. Because... I like you. I love you, for being willing to talk to me like this, even after knowing what a hopelessly incompetent person I am."However, the drama CDs are not considered canonical.
Although Danganronpa 2's Island Mode is also not considered canonical, Nagito flirts with Hajime in several instances:
If Hajime takes Nagito on a successful date, Nagito tells him: "For some reason... it scares me to think that I'm having fun without experiencing any bad luck. I mean, I feel so lucky right now that it wouldn't surprise me if one or two people I knew had died! But I should stop thinking about such dangerous things and get ready to go home to our love nest!" This line is the same in the Japanese version, where he calls it "ボクたちの愛の巣へ" (bokutachi no ai no su e lit. our nest of love)
If Hajime selects "let's take off our clothes" on a Beach date, Nagito comments: "Does that mean... you want to go in the ocean with me? I think that's a bad idea. There are lots of ways that could be dangerous. But I don't mind if you just want to see me naked."
In Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, he appears attracted to Izuru Kamukura (Most probably because he could detect he had every talent, and knowing Nagito associates talent with hope and has a big obsession with this last one, it's something to expect), as he blushes while looking at him with blissful expression and reaches out to him before passing out.
This is lampshaded in Danganronpa Another Episode by Kurokuma who asks Nagito if he's "finally going to come out of the closet" (in the English version). In the original version, he compares him to Hard Gay, a Japanese comedian's character dressed in leather gear who is based on a common stereotype of American gay leather subculture, probably because of Nagito's black clothing and the chain around his neck.
One of Nagito's hobbies is reading. This is implied in the main story, as Nagito likes to spend his free time in the library and later Hajime and Chiaki find several, different kinds of books inside his cottage. In Island Mode, he mentions that he could stay in a library for hours. He explains that reading is possibly the most peaceful way for him to spend time, because he isn't affected by his luck cycle that much while doing it. He'd enjoy reading outdoors at evening, if it weren't for the fact that whenever he feels like doing that meteor showers will occur and distract him with their twinkling.
Nagito enjoys unrealistic horror movies (like ones with ghosts and zombies), but he dislikes realistic horror movies with serial killers and certain action movies because they remind him of his past experiences.
He prefers salty things to sweet ones.
He really likes go stones, because the black (dark) and white (light) stones remind him of the battle between hope and despair.In Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc's Episode 4, two go stone jars can be seen inside his bag, along with the bomb switch and Dr Hopper cans.
Nagito is very good at cleaning, but he's also implied to be a terrible cook.
Interestingly, the events of self-harming leading up to Nagito's suicide in Chapter 5 mirrors certain details of the deaths in the first game; Sayaka Maizono was stabbed, Chihiro Fujisaki was tied up, Sakura Ogami was poisoned in a locked room setting, and Mukuro Ikusaba was speared.
In Island Mode, Nagito expresses intense fear towards fighter jets and it's strongly implied that he may suffer from the fear of flying because of his past trauma. While he is generally paranoid about many things, he appears to be extremely paranoid and afraid of plane crashes as just thinking or talking about it makes him very anxious. The idea of people being trapped inside, with no way to escape and just waiting to crash, terrifies him a lot.
Despite this, he was seen on an airplane which crashed in Danganronpa 3 - Side Despair. It's possible that he feels more comfortable while traveling alone, as he doesn't put other people's lives at risk. Considering his wealth, it's likely that he can afford to travel all by himself.
His favorite ride is the carousel, because it's relaxing and feels safe (though he does acknowledge the possibility that it might explode somehow). He shows similar interest in the Funhouse's playground equipment such as slides and swings, but he doesn't play with them because he thinks everyone would scold him if they saw him.
06-21
The Servant in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent.

Girls Gun 2 x Danganronpa Game Nagito Komaeda
Nagito in the Danganronpa 3 x Hōkai Gakuen collaboration.

In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's non-canon bonus mode, Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Celestia Ludenberg challenged Nagito and Makoto to Mahjong to test their luck. She then suggests they add the headmaster, Jin Kirigiri, to even things out. This is likely a reference to an official art from Danganronpa 1.2 Reload where the same event happened.
The Servant appears as a guest character in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent. His Max ATK and Max HP are 7300. His weapon is an army knife and its ability is doubled attack power. His deathblow is called "Sacrifice for Hope". The death blow attack gives maximum damage to any enemies on range, but also takes the half of Servant's own health.
Nagito is included in the collaboration of Danganronpa 3 x Hōkai Gakuen.
Edmond Dantes from the Fate/GrandOrder series has often been compared to Nagito, due to their similar appearances and their status as servants. Edmond is also drawn by Danganronpa's character designer, Rui Komatsuzaki.
Nagito's Japanese voice actress, Megumi Ogata, has sung three songs to the point where she sung in-character as Nagito who has his own mini album due to his popularity.
He has his own character song called Poison -gekiyaku-.
Zettai Kibō Birthday, one of the two songs on the album, is also the ending theme of Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc.
The other song on the album is titled Zansakura -zanka-.
References
↑ List of DR and DR2 casts former high schools
↑ Heavily implied based on the confirmed ages of Leon Kuwata and Toko Fukawa, and the series' timeline. The flashback at the beginning of Future Arc #08 confirms that the mutual killings took place 'years ago', thus it can be assumed that he is in his early twenties by the end of Danganronpa 3.
↑ 3.0 3.1 Nagito's official character profiling, translated by ProdigalDaughterAlice on Tumblr
↑ 4.0 4.1 AUTUMN&FOOD Q&A.
↑ Kodaka's character comment.
↑ Quote from Nagito Komaeda's Free Time Event in Japanese: どうか忘れないで… ボクはキミを… キミの中に眠る希望を心から愛していると
↑ @Marchen-v-Friedhof on Tumblr: Danganronpa 2 Another Story: Nagito Komaeda's track translation
↑ Quote from Nagito Komaeda from Danganronpa Another Story in Japanese: でもボクは諦めない。日向くんへの協力はこの先も惜しまない。だって・・・ボクは日向くんが好きだから。ボクはどうしようもない無能だってことを知っても、こうしてボクと話をしてくれるキミのことが・・・ボクは大好きなんだ。
↑ Scene from Danganronpa 3 - Side: Despair, episode 8.

Navigation
 [show] v • e
GAME CHARACTERS
 [show] v • e
ANIME CHARACTERS
 [show] v • e
NOVEL CHARACTERS
Categories:
Characters Danganronpa 2 Characters Danganronpa Another Episode Characters Danganronpa 3 Characters Super Danganronpa 2.5 Characters Former Ultimate Despair Playable Characters Protagonists Male Murdered Alive Maintenance: Article Revamp Former Antagonists
Languages:
Deutsch  Español  Français  Polski  Русский
Recent Wiki Activity
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Monokuma
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Leon Kuwata
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Celestia Ludenberg
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Chiaki Nanami
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago








Search

LogicalShark
1
START A WIKI
 ダンガンロンパ
ダンガンロンパ
1,164
PAGES
ADD
COMMUNITY
FORUM
in:
Maintenance:Article Stubs, Characters, Danganronpa 2 Characters, and 7 more
Nekomaru Nidai
English

 
SHARE
Nekomaru Nidai	Gallery	Sprites	
Toko Touko Fukawa Pixel for Stubs	This article is a despair-inducing stub!
As such, it is considered to be incomplete regarding the information available.

Nekomaru Nidai
Art Sprite Mechamaru DR3
 Art
Name
Aliases & Titles
Talent
Characteristics
Gender
Male Male
Height
198cm (JP)
6'4" (ENG)
Weight
122 kg (268 lbs)
Birth Date
♓ February 22
Chest Size
122 cm
Blood Type
A
Likes
Freshly washed towels
Dislikes
Lazy people
Killing Game Status
Personal Status
Debuts
Portrayals

"	As long as you have friends who have your back, you'll be able to clear a path to the future without giving up.

— Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair
"
Nekomaru Nidai (弐大 猫丸 Nidai Nekomaru), is a student of Hope's Peak Academy's Class 77-B, and a participant of the Killing School Trip featured in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair. His title is Ultimate Team Manager (超高校級の「マネージャー」chō kōkō-kyū no "manējā." lit. Super High School Level Coach).

He, along with Class 77-B, return in Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School to explore their school life leading up to The Tragedy.

Contents[hide]
Appearance
Personality
Talents & Abilities
Ultimate Team Manager
In other languages
Ultimate Masseur
Hand-to-Hand Combat
History
Prior to the Tragedy
Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak Academy
Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for You
Episode 03 - A Farewell to All Futures
Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito Komaeda
Episode 05 - The Beginning of the End
Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter
Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy History
Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by Chance
Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile
Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope
Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy
During the Tragedy
Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc
Episode 01 - Third Time's the Charm
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Chapter 1 - Destination Despair
Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and Coconuts
Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean Scent
Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Clockwork?
Epilogue - The Day Before the Future
Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no Hakaimono
Illusion World
Real-Life
Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair
Relationships
Akane Owari
Hajime Hinata
Gundham Tanaka
Kazuichi Soda
Chiaki Nanami
Daisuke
Free Time
Skills
Island Mode Choices
Quotes
Trivia
References
Navigation

Nekomaru is a young man in his early twenties, around 22 at youngest. His virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as his 17-year-old self.Overall, he is noted to look older than he is, especially as a teen.

He is a very tall, muscular man with black hair. He wears a white tank top under a black gakuran, as well as blue tracksuit pants and sandals. He has chains around his neck with a whistle hanging in the middle part and emits a blue electric aura from his eyes.

Nekomaru has two scars running from the top of his both eyes downwards in their own directions. He also has a towel tucked into the back of his pants. Like Peko Pekoyama, he has also been mistaken as a cosplayer due to his appearance.

As the Ultimate Despair, he wears a white jacket with golden patterns. His blue electric aura appears to have changed to red.


Mechamaru
Nekomarudr3
Nekomaru's appearance in Danganronpa 3.


Nekomaru is a vigorous, boisterous, openhearted student who is passionate about supporting athletes, but suffers from dyspepsia. He frequently shouts when speaking, being a team manager. He is very optimistic and his willpower is immeasurable, but he isn't very smart and he's very bad at lying. He also really appears to enjoy fighting, often in the form of very serious training.

Nekomaru sees no shame in talking about certain things that could make others feel embarrassed or uncomfortable. For example, he never misses a chance to loudly proclaim when he needs to go to the restroom. He also tends to get too close to other people's personal space, though he does this just to check their potential as athletes. Furthermore, as the self-proclaimed Ultimate Masseur, he frequently offers his special massage to the others to the point that he forces them to receive his massage, as shown in his first and fifth Free Time Events with Hajime. He states that his massage is his own ultimate weapon that can relieve fatigue in an instant, but it also appears to be highly addictive to the receiver.

Though Nekomaru may appear scary and aggressive, he has a very kind heart. He cries quite easily and isn't afraid to show it. As a team manager, he can be quite strict, but he is very supportive and inspiring to his athletes and strives to improve them however he can. Teamwork and fighting spirit are very important to him.

In his fifth Free Time Events, he states that he will give everything he has to fully support everyone so they can escape the killing game together. True to his statement, he is the only one who willingly coached Akane by giving her a training routine and paid attention to food that she ate so she can stay fit and healthy. To prevent murders from continuing, he and Kazuichi Soda even tied Nagito Komaeda in the old lodge after he manipulated a murder to happen during the party in Chapter 1. He has a protective side to all of his classmates, Akane in particularーwithout thinking twice, he sacrificed himself to save the Ultimate Gymnast from her punishment in Chapter 3. During the surprisingly romantic moment, they share the effect of aphrodisiacs in Danganronpa 3, Nekomaru acts more tender and bashful towards her than usual.

Talents & Abilities 
Ultimate Team 
Many athletes become top-notch and set new records under Nekomaru's guidance. His talent, Ultimate Team Manager shouldn't be an insult, as Nekomaru states that there are no athletes who could've reached the top without a manager's help. He believes the bonds that are created between a manager and athlete are the secret of many athletes' winning.

In the past, Nekomaru had a baseball player who got an offer to join the major leagues while he was still in the middle school, a figure skater who performed six and a half spins, and a tennis player who managed to win a thirty-six-hour long match.

Nekomaru has been working in management profession for a quite long time. He could easily tell people who will have a good future as an athlete just by checking their body size. He suggested Hajime Hinata play rugby under his supervision. Even though Hajime thought that Nekomaru overestimated him, Nekomaru simply judged from Hajime's positive points such as his calm judgment skills, high degree of mobility, and knowing the importance of teamwork, which are all basic requirements to become a natural rugby player.

Nekomaru prepares different techniques to train his athletes for each sport, but he conducted that top athletes must have these three essential things including physical fitness, visual acuity, and willpower. After the athlete wishes to strengthen those three essentials, he gladly prepares a solid and effective training regiment for them. He supports each athlete to reach what they want to become and never allows himself to choose the available sports for his athletes. He said that it is a real challenge to bring out the maximum potential of each individual athlete.

Even though Nekomaru's training is a bit harsh, slowly but surely the trained athletes will get used to his principles and eventually win many competitions, as expected from athletes that are trained directly by Nekomaru.

What makes Nekomaru become a different manager from the others is his special massage. Using his talented fingers, he can instantly relax tense muscles and promote maximum blood circulation. He can push out intravenous toxins and restore fatigue in an instant; thus calling himself the Ultimate Masseur.

Not just to train athletes to make them reach the top, but it's also a manager's duty to protect and support their athletes, as Nekomaru states in one of his Free Time Events. He wanted to become the official manager of the participants of the Killing School Trip and will support them until they "win" the match by working together to escape from the island.

In other 
Nekomaru's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Manager
Title	English Translation
日本語 (超高校級の「マネージャー」	Super High School Level Coach
Français Ultime Manager	Ultimate Manager
Ultimate Masseur 
While not recognized by Hope's Peak Academy for his massaging talents, as a team manager he developed his abilities as a masseur in order to help his athletes grow and to fully prepare them for intense training by maximizing their blood flow. During a special event with Akane, Nekomaru gave her a full body massage and deep tissue treatment while in her cottage. He states that the title 'Ultimate Masseuse' is an alias that belongs to him, believing that he has great skills in this field. He would have likely performed these techniques on his own athletes to improve their strength and lower fatigue through massaging every pressure point. Nekomaru is very thorough when massaging his athletes and sees it a necessity not to cut corners with any massage for them to have there full effect. He gives Hajime a massage during their final Free Time Events together and Hajime states after that his body feels 'extremely light' and that he didn't want to admit that he couldn't live without Nekomaru's massage. It even allowed Hajime to do an impossible amount of training which shows the excellence of Nekomaru's massage therapy.

Hand-to-Hand Combat 
In physical combat, Nekomaru has been quite successful in ability to match and overcome his foes and friends. On many occasions during the Neo World Program, Nekomaru and Akane would train together. When Akane appeared at the diner in her swimsuit, she was covered in blood and said she had ran into Nekomaru and had to fight him. Her injuries and scarring were only minor but extensive showing the strength of Nekomaru's combat skills, and she explained that Nekomaru was a surprisingly 'strong opponent'. When Gundham challenged Nekomaru to a duel of life and death, Nekomaru accepted and did not run away. Gundham explained that Nekomaru 'gave it his all' to try and kill him, showing Nekomaru to be a worthy challenge.

When Nekomaru was revived by Hajime from the Neo World Program, he battled a Monobeast at Future Foundation Headquarters which was allied with the Super High School Level Elite Task Force. He was able to match the power of the robot, using his arms to block its head charge. Nekomaru overcame the robot, despite its large amount of strength so its easy to imagine how strong he his against normal human opponents in hand-to-hand combat.


Prior to the 
Nekomaru was born with a heart defect that left him bedridden and confined to a hospital. The doctor who treated Nekomaru told him that he would only live to be 20. Because of his sickness, he had never got to play sports and didn't participate in P.E. in school. He was also teased a lot when he was young, being unable to make friends and making frequent trips to the hospital.

While at the hospital, Nekomaru met a boy named Daisuke, who suffered from the same condition. Daisuke was a team manager and Nekomaru took notice of how many people came to visit him in the hospital. When Daisuke died without seeing the team he had been training reach their championship, Nekomaru was inspired to continue in his footsteps and realize Daisuke's dream by becoming a team manager himself.

Nekomaru quickly gained a reputation as a skilled team manager, turning around several poorly-trained teams and leading them to national recognition. His clients have included baseball stars, figure skaters, and rugby teams. His job ended up developing his muscles and learning a special massage for athletes by using his fingers. He previously attended First Yokoyama High School before enrolling in Hope's Peak Academy.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak 
Nekomaru was in bathroom when his homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome and his classmates went to retrieve him. Due to his massive "power" when using a toilet, he destroyed the entire stall after he was done. He apologized to his teacher and later joined his classmates to search for the others.

Nekomaru helped Chisa tie Teruteru Hanamura and restrain Akane to a cross. Throughout the day, to prevent Akane from escaping, Nekomaru carried her on the cross on his shoulder.

Nekomaru and the others were asked by Chisa to clean their classroom while she went to retrieve the two remaining students. After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that everyone had waited and that the classroom was clean. When the students once again bring up that they don't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent and pass their exam, Chisa reminded Nekomaru and the others that talent isn't everything and that she wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
Nekomaru and Akane were having a deadly training session in the class, making the teacher who attended to the class faint and they destroyed half of the classroom. Chisa told him to stop, but Nekomaru insisted on continuing their realistic combat conditions. His teacher understood what he meant and left the class immediately.

After he cleaned and repaired the mess that he made with his classmates, Nekomaru played games that Chiaki Nanami brought. He was dueling with Gundham in a fighting game, resulting in a tie when both of the players fell from the arena.

During their break time, Nekomaru told everyone that the frightening growling sound came from Akane's stomach. Then he and his classmates proceed to eat nikujaga that Teruteru and Hiyoko Saionji cooked. Nekomaru noticed the sudden change of Akane's attitude after she ate big portions of the food. His heart raced when Akane called his name in a shy tone, slowly get closer to her.

The next day, after he and his classmates recovered from the aphrodisiac's effects, Chisa gathered them in their classroom. Chisa elected Chiaki as their class representative, and Nekomaru said that he agreed with his teacher's decision.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, Nekomaru and his classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building. Later during the break time, Nekomaru was shown laying on the ground in the school's park with his classmates playing with rabbits owned by the Academy.

Several days later, Nekomaru looked worried at Mahiru who cried on Hiyoko's chest in the classroom after she lost her friend from the Reserve Course, Sato.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
Nekomaru was listening to Chisa's announcement about the annual practical exam, still showing no spirit after the deaths of Natsumi Kuzuryu and Sato affected his class's morale greatly.

At the end of the episode, Nekomaru had to bid his farewell to his beloved teacher Chisa as she was transferred to the Reserve Course after the bombing incident involving one of his classmates, Nagito.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Upon Chisa's return to the Main Course from the Reserve Course suspension, the class created a party in celebration of her return. Nekomaru and everyone welcomed her back, Nekomaru encouraging Chisa by telling her to not be so modest as she was the one who brought the class together in the first place and that she had his seal of approval. Nekomaru then laughed happily as he rubbed Chiaki's head in approval of all her hard work planning the party.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful 
Nekomaru is seen cleaning his desk as everyone in the class prepares to be upperclassmen by moving to their new classroom in the new school building.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy 
When Hiyoko lays a flower on Nagito's desk stating it was 1 year ago that he died, Nekomaru confirms to her that they rather can't keep in touch with him.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by 
Nekomaru starts to inquire about Mikan Tsumiki's absence, Hiyoko responds by telling him that she probably got scared off by the parade. Upon discovering Nagito saw Mikan in the West District, the class and himself go to look for her on the school grounds. He goes in a group with Akane and the Ultimate Imposter, later conceding to search the cafeteria upon Akane's request.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Nekomaru and the class reconvene at the school classroom, after a failed attempt to find Mikan they presume Nagito gave them false information. Chiaki makes her way to the classroom with an unconscious Nagito and explains that Chisa is in trouble, the class are concerned and agree to help. Nagito points out there is high risk and a chance of them dying, Nekomaru and the class consider these concerns although Chiaki convinces them otherwise.

The Ultimate Imposter reveals his true identity, Nekomaru is shocked however he comes to accept it quickly. Nekomaru later exclaims 'To battle' and the whole class lift up their fists in agreement.

Nekomaru and the class leave the Main Course building and head for Junko's lair but encounter the Reserve Course students who wish to take them on in battle to create placements on the Main Course for themselves. Nekomaru automatically agrees to stay behind and fend them off and Gundham also agrees to assist. Akane accept his decision and Sonia wishes them both luck. Nekomaru admits he has nothing against the Reserve Course students personally but that they will be in for some pain.

The class soon reach the stairway leading to Junko's hideout underneath the Izuru Kamakura statue and begin to descend. The class worry for Nekomaru and Gundham's safety although Akane believes that Nekomaru will have them in training before too long.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope 
The class continue down the corridor after making their descent of the stairway. A door is flung upon unexpectedly, Nekomaru and Gundham appearing from the dark hallway. The class is relieved that they are both okay. Nekomaru explains that if it wasn't for Mikan telling them where to go over the phone, they would never have found the rest of the class. Ibuki proclaims all that is left is to save Chisa, to which Nekomaru and the rest of the class agree.

Mikan, now leading the group, approaches a large red door at the end of the corridor, pressing a button which opens the door, Nekomaru and the rest of the class follow her inside. Once inside, Junko reveals multiple monitors showing Chiaki Nanami's Punishment, Nekomaru hollering 'what the hell is this' causes Junko to respond, stating 'The prelude to a fantastic tale of despair'. Nekomaru horrified by what he is seeing, wants to find a way to save Chiaki but is powerless.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Nekomaru, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. As the broadcast ends, Nekomaru and the class fall silent, with a patterned swirl in their eyes, they have now lost all their hope and become part of Ultimate Despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Nekomaru and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher and started reading a letter she prepared. Nekomaru and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa started to cry. The patterned swirled return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. Nekomaru expressed that he will support everyone's dreams. Chisa then explains that they will 'officially' have to die at the classroom to be taken off the list of protected students, Nekomaru agreeing that in protective custody no one would believe they were Ultimate Despair. After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activates a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Nekomaru and his class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak Academy's destruction.

Chisa's narration later revealed Nekomaru helped to infect the world with despair.

During the 
After the death of the True Ultimate Despair, Junko Enoshima, the Remnants of Ultimate Despair agreed to an insane plan to have AI Junko take over their bodies, so they could resurrect their leader.

The remnants of Despair are later found by Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by AI Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
As members of the Ultimate Despair, shown in the flashback, Nekomaru and Akane reinforced Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu and Peko who were battling the Future Foundation, but all of them were eventually captured by the Future Foundation.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Nekomaru introduces himself to Hajime outside of Hotel Mirai on the first day of the trip. Nekomaru later joins his classmates in relaxing at the beach at Usami's suggestion. When Monokuma appears and introduces the rules of the School Trip of Mutual Killing, Nekomaru is rattled, but remains adamant that nobody will die.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
During the party organized by the Ultimate Imposter in Chapter 1, Nekomaru suffers from constant digestive issues, but is unable to use the then-locked bathroom. His testimony that the bathroom was locked before the blackout at the party becomes a vital piece of information proving Peko's innocence in the Ultimate Imposter's murder.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
In Chapter 2, Nekomaru works with Kazuichi Soda to tie up Nagito and keep him confined in the old building near the hotel, afraid that Nagito might become dangerous if left unwatched. Though the other students protest their course treatment of Nagito, the decision is made to leave him in the old building. Nekomaru later spars with Akane on Chandler Beach; while he criticizes her lack of proper technique, Nekomaru is amazed that Akane has the strength to wear him down.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
In Chapter 3, Nekomaru becomes wary of the fact that Akane is appearing less and less frequently in front of the others. He believes she may be training on her own, something he is against as her self-appointed manager. During the concert organized by Ibuki Mioda, Monomi appears to tell the others that Akane is dueling Monokuma. Furious, Nekomaru rushes over and throws himself in front of Akane, shielding her from a bazooka launched by Monokuma.

Nekomaru is injured severely by the blast and is rushed the hospital by Monokuma, who insists that Nekomaru will ultimately live. Nekomaru remains in the hospital for the remainder of Chapter 3 and is subsequently absent from the third Class Trial.

At the end of the third trial after Mikan, the culprit of Ibuki and Hiyoko's murder case had been executed, Nekomaru returned as a robot on the sandy beach, much to the surprise and shock of the others, but Nekomaru didn't appear to mind.

Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Clockwork?
Nekomaru returns to the group at the start of Chapter 4 having been converted into a robot by Monokuma, who claims it was the only way to save Nekomaru's life. Though his personality remains unchanged, Nekomaru's robot body comes with a variety of bizarre features, including cola and tea dispensers that function from his eyes, a radio clock with an alarm embedded in his chest, and a "Good Night Button" on the back of his neck that immediately renders him unconscious.

When the students are locked in the Funhouse, Nekomaru attempts to keep everyone in good shape. He keeps his spirits up and dutifully attends Monokuma Tai Chi every day as instructed. Eventually Nekomaru is confronted by Gundham and the two agree to engage in a duel to the death in order to prevent the other students from having to starve to death inside the Funhouse. Nekomaru ultimately loses and is murdered by Gundham.

Danganronpa 2 Minimaru Nekomaru Nidai Akane OwariAfter Nekomaru's death, Kazuichi takes some of his parts and constructs a toy replica of Nekomaru dubbed "Minimaru" in order to cheer up Akane. Akane keeps Minimaru with her from then on. Minimaru speaks with a robotic version of Nekomaru's voice and repeats things that Akane says, says cheering phrases, and shouts some of Nekomaru's "catchphrases".
Epilogue - The Day Before the 
Currently, Nekomaru is most likely comatose, just like most of his classmates. The survivors of the Killing Game are waiting for him and the rest of their classmates to wake up.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Nekomaru appeared in Nagito's imaginary world following his death in the Neo World Program.

During morning class, Akane is seen using two chairs as a stand to perform handstand push-ups to which Nekomaru observed her progress.

He later attended Kazuichi's funeral after he was murdered by the World Destroyer. Nekomaru, with an umbrella, waited with Akane in the rain after the service is finished before leaving.

Real-
Nagito is the last to be awoke from the Neo World Program by Hajime. Nekomaru along with the rest of Class 77-B board a ship to take them to Future Foundation Headquarters.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of 
Nekomaru returned in Side: Hope alongside the rest of the Class 77-B, who had been resurrected by Izuru Kamukura although Izuru was now combined with the personality and memories of Hajime. They arrived at the island where the Future Foundation headquarters were situated, having left from Jabberwock Island and proceeded by rescuing Byakuya Togami and Yasuhiro Hagakure from being trapped under rubble, they then began their fight against Ryota's brainwashed rescue squad troops, including the Former Super High School Level Elite Task Force.

Nekomaru is seen facing off against a robot unit from the Super High School Level Elite Task Force of Future Foundation, holding it off with his arms. Being surrounded by a second Monobeast, Kazuichi comes to his aid, sending an army of remote control Mini-Mecha Nidai robots (The same design of the one he made for the class in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair) to defeat the second Monobeast and save Nekomaru from danger.

Later on, Nekomaru helped convince Ryota to abandon his plan to brainwash the world. When Hajime began persuading him to join them in atonement, Nekomaru happily accepting Ryota. Upon leaving the broadcasting studio, Nagito held Makoto Naegi hand and began to ramble about his talent before being swiftly carried away by Nekomaru and Akane for speaking too long.

Shortly afterword, he and the other Former Remnants of Despair shoulder the blame for the Final Killing Game in a broadcast to the Future Foundation, presenting themselves in their despair persona and relieving the organization of any wrongdoing.

With the battle won, Nekomaru and the Class 77-B return to Jabberwock Island. He is last seen eating Teruteru's cooking as the ship began it's journey back home.


Class 77-B:
Akane 
Nekomaru is close to Akane due to their desire to improve themselves physically. Nekomaru, after Peko's execution, decided to guard the third island's entrance, due to being worried that Akane would do something reckless. Nekomaru trained with Akane through rather serious looking fights, and Nekomaru also gave her his famous massages, making some other students mistake their relationship as sexual due to them referring to the massages as "it" (though the massages were definitely quite suggestive, as shown in the bonus scene in Chapter 3).

Nekomaru sacrifices himself to save Akane, and she was the most shocked to discover that he was a robot and was really depressed about his death, never saying thank you to him because he always defended her. This led to Kazuichi to use some of Nekomaru's remains to create a miniature version of himself to cheer her up.

During their time at Hope's Peak Academy, Akane and Nekomaru would often fight, Nekomaru considering it training, but Akane considering it battle. The two were rather close despite their constant fighting. When the students were looking for missing Mikan, Nekomaru agrees they should check the cafeteria after Akane gets hungry, and looks at her with a tender look when she is cheered up by this.

It's hinted that Nekomaru and Akane have romantic feelings for each other, with his massages and her reactions to those being quite suggestive. While under the effect of aphrodisiacs, Nekomaru is at first protective of her when something seems wrong and then bashful when she tells him not to touch her. The two then share a surprisingly romantic moment, being swooned and looking at each other.

In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, before graduation, Nekomaru states he will become Akane's manager to handle her paperwork and so they can train and have massages whenever they want.

Hajime 
Nekomaru's Island Mode relationship differs from that of his real-life relationship with Hajime. During Nekomaru's Island Mode ending, he believes there is something inside Hajime, but he is unsure what it is. The correct answer is "hope", but if Hajime suggests "love", Nekomaru become surprised and then begins to consider that his feelings for Hajime are romantic. If Hajime chooses a bad option during an event Nekomaru will say: "Hmmm… That date wasn’t exciting at all… A detailed plan produces maximum results in both dating and training. You won’t make me fall for you if you act like this! Bye now!" showing that his feelings for Hajime appear to be on a romantic level.

Gundham 
Although Nekomaru was murdered by Gundham in the Killing School Trip, they fought together against the group of Reserve Course students, who were infiltrating the school in reality. The two of them seemed to have a different relationship in the real world, though even then they didn't mingle much at all.

Kazuichi 
The first major interaction between Kazuichi and Nekomaru was tying up Nagito, fearing he'd be a danger to the group. This could have either been a strategic move or they were previously acquainted, though they rarely spoke to each other since. He was fascinated when Nekomaru rejoined the group as a robot. It is implied that Kazuichi thought he wouldn't survive, so these emotions were probably a mixture of his thoughts toward the "impossible" technology and that Nekomaru actually survived. After Nekomaru's death as a robot, Kazuichi created Minimaru, a small toy made from the remains, for Akane to help cheer her and the rest of them up.

Chiaki 
Nekomaru, like the rest of his class, appointed Chiaki as there class representative without hesitation. Nekomaru and the class admired Chiaki's hardwork, and he expressed annoyance at Chiaki seeking herself short for organizing Chisa's welcome back party, and fondly rubs her head. During Chiaki's slow execution at Junko's hand, he expressed a desire to help her, but finds he can't move. He is then brought to tears as he has to watch Chiaki's slow torturous execution.

Figures:

Daisuke was the reason why Nekomaru became interested in being a manager. When Daisuke died, Nekomaru took over his work in order to help Daisuke's baseball team win. This showed that Nekomaru admired him and became close friends with him, going so far to help Daisuke's team so his work wouldn't be in vain.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Nekomaru Nidai
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Nekomaru in order to learn more about him. If he gives Nekomaru a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Nekomaru will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Nekomaru's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Nekomaru's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567MX
Nekomaru Nidai's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Soccer	Baseball	Rugby
--	--	--
--	--	--
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 019 Coconut DR2 Present 024 Fresh Bindings DR2 Present 042 Ogami Clan Codex DR2 Present 089 Sand God's Storm Horn

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Nekomaru grants the following skills:

Power of Life and Death	Easier to push through an opponent's argument.
Effective during Rebuttal Showdown.	5 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Nekomaru Nidai

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"Instead of trying to figure out why we're here, we should try to figure out why we can't leave..."
"Even with all my might, I couldn't open it! It'd be absolutely impossible for all of you..."
"I am the Ultimate Team Manager, NEKOMARU NIDAI!!!"
"Hold it right there! Your voice is too soft! Let your voice rise from the bottom of your stomach!"
"I AM NEKOMARU NIDAI! Don't forget it, even if you go to hell!"
"I don't want to get violent, but if I do, I have no idea what might happen!"
Chapter 1:

"ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE WITH A FIGHTING SPIRIT!!!"
"Which means the answers are: a good appetite, a good night's sleep, and a good shit!!!"
"I see... Even sports teams need captains, after all..."
"It's important to be flexible in situations like this... Perhaps a diversion from all this is just what we need."
"Don't stop me, Byakuya... There comes a time when a man knows he's gotta go...! If I don't go now...it would shame me as a man. Shitting my pants would totally shame me as a MAAAAAAAAAAAAAANNNNNNNNNNNNNN!!!"
"However, if you think I'd be angered by something like that, you've all underestimated my nerve and patience. Do all and achieve all with one's presence of mind! That is the goal of a true leader! In other words, a leader must never falter in any situation, but always have the presence of one's mind!"
"D'ohhhhh! Man up and speak more clearly!"
"Teruteru...just man up and be straight with us."
"Damn fiend...I won't give up until the very end! I won't die in vain... I'll give my entire existence, my entire power, my entire body and soul, and fight to the very end!"
Chapter 2:

"She's not a weakling who'd get killed by a weak blow like that..."
"Akane... It seems you're the type who learns through actions rather than words..."
"Basics! Make sure you understand the basics! You'll always be second-rate if you just rely on instinct!"
"You, too... Basics are the foundation for everything!"
"Impossible! Injuring an athlete would disgrace me as a team manager!"
"I have no interest in weak things like video games!"
"I can't understand what they're talking about! No matter how you look at it, I'm only a team manager!"
"No matter how others view us, we are ourselves! There is nothing to worry about!"
"All I can do for Mahiru is find out who the killer is and teach them a lesson."
"If you don't have enough power, harness your talent energy! C'mon, bring out that energyyyyyyyy!"
"If you don't unleash your power here, where else are you going to unleash it!? Don't you want to avenge Mahiru's death!?"
"Fine, let's figure out the weapon. If this keeps up, I'm gonna feel like I need to shit... ...Which means I'll feel disgusting!!!"
"This will never end if you keep being so suspicious!"
"H-How...would Peko be a tool in the first place...? Peko is a legitimate human being!!!"
Chapter 3:

"FIIIIRE! START THE FIIIIIIIRRRRRE! We'll have a grand bonfire so Mahiru can reach Nirvana!"
"Akane...Fuyuhiko has finally come back to us. You better not do anything reckless... I can't stand...the thought of losing someone...any longer."
"There's only one Ultimate Masseuse and that's me! NEKOMARU NIDAIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII! I'll knead every pressure point throughout your body, and I'll help you see a brand new world!"
"Your voice is too soft! Project your voice more from your stomach! Gahahahahaha! All right, now your voice will reach the sun! And...to our departed, Mahiru and Peko."
"I'm just a mere team manager... Therefore, I don't know anything about art. However...when I saw Mahiru's photos for the first time... My vulgar heart was greatly shaken! Truly, that is a splendid thing! It's a pity what happened to Mahiru, but I will never forget how she taught me the value of art!"
"It's fine, just let him be. Apparently yakuza have pain tolerance down to an art..."
"That stupid fool! No...I'm the one who was the fool... It was my mistake to not keep my eyes on her! Tch...! As a team manager, I should've had a proper grasp of my athlete's private life... Dammiiiiiiit! This failure will haunt me for the rest of my life, or my name isn't NEKOMARU NIDAIIIIIIII!!!!"
"Fuyuhiko finally returned to us... The thought of anyone else in our group getting taken... I won't allow it! I will never allllllooooowiiiiiiiiiiiiiittttttttttttttt!!!"
"This is NEKOMARU NIDAI's final firework! Make sure you sear it into your eyes!"
"Ha... Isn't it obvious...? Supporitng their athletes....is...a manager's duty. H-However... Wh-What a shame... For someone like NEKOMARU NIDAI...to... It was just a little shot from a bazooka... I really am the worst... Heh...hehe...hah... Akane... The time I've spent with you...i-it...it wasn't so bad... Don't...die...Akane..."
"The name's NEKOMARU NIDAI!!! I've been reborn in the rivesrs of hellllllll!!! Gah-hahahahaha!"
Chapter 4:

"The name's NEKOMARU NIDAI!!! I've been reborn in the rivers of helllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!!! Gahaha! No matter how you look at it, I'm still me!"
"It's not just for show, it's PURE ELECTRICITY! I've been reborn as PURE ELECTRICITY! GAAAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!!"
"Gahahaha! Don't worry about it! A lot of stuff happens when you're alive!"
"If you keep sweating the small stuff, you're going to end up getting more grey hairs!"
"That's right! I've resurrected from the depths of hell in shining silverrrrrrrr!"
"It's better to just be alive... Hey, don't you agree? If I'm alive, I can still talk to you all. If I'm alive, I can still fight... It doesn't matter what happens to my body! Not one bit!"
"Fool! How many times do I have to tell you that it doesn't matter! No matter what shape or form I take, I AM NEKOMARU NIDAIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!"
"Once again, I hope we can all get along!"
"Hey, hey...it's not like I came back as a monster. I'm just a robot now, you know?"
"As always, you sure do eat a lot! I feel relaxed just by looking at you!"
"Future Foundation! World Ender! Hah! There's obviously something wrongw ith you if you believe in something so unrealistic!"
"Don't you think fighting with ourselves like this is Monokuma's trap!?"
"Gah-haha! It's not like complaining about it will change anything! We're just a traitor and a robot, after all!"
"Well then, Hajime... Let's show everyone else the value in leftovers! Let's magnificently find the exit with our very own hands! If we do that, it will solve everything!!!"
"Hiyoko and Ibuki... Those two were quite the noisy bunch. It's as if a fire was smothered... And I cannot believe...Mikan was the one who murdered them..."
"Ngh...? Then I must live up to everyone's expectations! As long as I'm here, I will not tolerate any more victims! I won't allow iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit!"
"This building is peculiar... Look at the inside of this bathroom! I can't take a peaceful shit like this! Preventing me from taking a good shit... This house is certainly defective! Tch... Every time I see a bathroom, I get this lonely feeling... When in the world is my constipation going to be fixed!?"
"It's not even worth playing if all you get after winning is a weapon...!"
"Ha! We just have to go for it! The only way we can overcome this situation is to make a move!"
"As soon as she learned there was no food, she was overcome by hunger... Obsessions are truly annoying... But at least try to stay calm! Now's not the time for you to paaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaannnniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiic!"
"Do you need to go that for to test it? I won't tolerate any robo-prejudice!"
"Then the men shall have Strawberry House! Strawberry men are known for passion!"
"Regardless, if I ever decide to get serious with this body, you won't even last a second!"
"This scorching, stinging, tense atmosphere... I've been a team manager for so long, I'd nearly forgotten this... This is great! What a comforting atmosphere!"
"Gaaahahahaha! You'll drench your soul with evil until the bitter end, huh...? SPLENDID! In response to your spirit...I shall kill you with all of my might! I won't go easy on you! Don't even think about holding back! Don't waste your breath on cowardly tactics! Give me everything you've got!"
As Minimaru:

"STUPID FOOL! GET IT TOGETHER!"
"I'M NO DOLL! I'M...MINIMARU!"
Chapter 5:

"SHITK&&p#spds~=~~+@:T;^--8y*?`*DOIT:OGAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA" (Nekomaru's cottage post-fifth trial)

His first name literally means "round cat", something he was often teased about as a child.
Nidai means "two" and "big". His full name may translate to "Two big round cats".
Nekomaru's birthday, February 22, falls on Cat Day, in Japan, most likely a nodoff to his name.
Nekomaru's hair and clothing is probably a reference to Jotaro Kujo|Jotaro Kujo from Jojo's Bizarre Adventure.
Also, in comparison to the characteristic drawing style of the Danganronpa franchise, some of Nekomaru's features (i.e. relatively small eyes, a very defined muscular, bulky physique and the "angular" shape the scars running over his eyes give his face) seem to be inspired by the distinctive drawing style of Hirohiko Araki, the creator of Jojo's Bizarre Adventure.
During a secret event involving Akane in chapter 3, he is heard yelling "Atatatatatata", which is known as Kenshiro's war cry on the Fist of the North Star series.
Nekomaru calls himself the Ultimate Masseur because of his special massage technique for athletes that enable them to work impossible tasks for long periods of time and get them addicted to it.
It is uncertain whether or not he is officially recognized as the "Ultimate Masseur" by Hope's Peak Academy.
It should be noted that in the English version of the game Nekomaru actually calls himself "Ultimate Masseuse"; a title that is grammatically wrong considering "masseur" and "masseuse" are male- and female-exclusive nouns, respectively.
When Hajime first meets Nekomaru, it is implied that he used to train Leon Kuwata, as Nagito says that "he used to train that famous Japanese baseball player" and this is stated by Nekomaru himself in one of his Free Time Events by saying that he's been with various athletes and one of them is "a baseball player who got an offer to join the major leagues while he was still in middle school."
Nekomaru is the only person to be absent during one of the class trials, as he sustained critical injuries in chapter 3.
The morning after Nekomaru sustains fatal injuries while protecting Akane from an attack by Monokuma, the other student ask the latter where he is. Monokuma acts as if he has forgotten who Nekomaru is in response, and asks if he's "the boy who turns into a girl when splashed with cold water" - making a reference to the Ranma ½ manga series.
Nekomaru, like Nagito Komaeda, has had a fatal disease that would prevent them from living no longer than 20. Seeing however that they would be 22 by the events of Danganronpa 3, it has shown that both surpassed the illness.
In Nekomaru's case, it could be due to him maintaining a healthy physique, following his start in becoming the Ultimate Team Manager.
Nekomaru's high school, First Yokoyama High School, is a probably a reference to the many athletes with the last name Yokoyama.
Kazutaka Kodaka states that he liked Nekomaru's fierce face and crotch bulge, but requested not to show the bulge too much.
Minimaru is shown occasionally in Ultra Despair Girls - Danganronpa Another Episode, appearing to Komaru Naegi in a small UFO.
Nekomaru's English voice actor, Patrick Seitz, also voiced Monokid.
Seitz is also the voice for the One Piece character Franky who is a cyborg as well. Both characters have been through some medical trauma that forced their bodies to become part robot in order to survive (though Nekomaru's may have been exaggerated due to Monokuma).
Another similarity between the two is the fact that both have some form of cola stored in their bodies. The difference being that Nekomaru can dispense cola from his right eye and Franky runs on Franky Cola as his energy source.
Both are also large and manly men, who also are incredible fist fighters.

Peko is a young woman in her early twenties, around 22 at youngest. Her virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as her 17 year old self.

She is a tall, young woman, who wears a black/dark turquoise schoolgirl uniform with a red tie or ascot. Her skirt is somewhat short and she wears dark tights underneath it with white loafers. She has long, silver hair that she ties up into two braids on either side of her head with white ribbons securing each braid at the top, and two red ties to hold each braid together at the bottom. Her eyes are also bright red. Peko also wears thin framed rectangular glasses.

She is constantly seen carrying her shinai (bamboo sword) around with her in a dark turquoise sheath/wrap with a silver/white design on the back. The shinai has a metal katana blade hidden at the center of its bamboo wrappings, which Peko likely uses when protecting and hunting people on Fuyuhiko's orders.

At one point in the game, Peko admits that her appearance has been mistaken for cosplay before, and strange cameramen have tried to take pictures of her. Nekomaru Nidai also experienced this and they were seen to talk about their 'striking' appearances.

As the Ultimate Despair, she wears white clothing, including a jacket and pants. She has also replaced her shinai with a standard metal katana, presumably due to no longer needing to hide her true lethality as a student of Hope's Peak.

During her time at Hope's Peak Academy, she wore the standard uniform without the blazer. She also wore black ribbons in her hair, along with the same tights and shoes.


Peko with a Sparkling Justice mask.


Peko initially appears to have a rather serious demeanor, expressing little emotion. Due to this perceived aura, she often comes off as intimidating. Despite this, she is neither impolite nor an antisocial person. She had no qualms about attending the party in chapter one, and furthermore apologizes for what she felt was a failing on her part due to her believing the power went out because she was in the bathroom from food poisoning so she was not guarding the room it was in. She comes off as cold but this isn’t because she means too. Rather than being emotionless, she simply doesn’t express much of her emotions. As she revealed in her free time event, she believed that she didn’t need to smile and therefore eventually forgot how to. She thought it was unessasary at the time, although in her free time event she wanted to learn how to make her childhood friend(who is highly implied to be Fuyuhiko) happy. While she attempts to learn how to do so, she’s shown to be oblivious in the situation where Hiyoko makes up her own somewhat evil version on how to smile.

Due to being raised as a "tool" for the Kuzuryuu clan, she believes herself to be less than human and that her sole purpose is to carry out Fuyuhiko’s wishes. While Fuyuhiko loves her as a person and doesn’t want her to think of herself as a tool, she interprets it as Fuyuhiko's hate of relying on his family’s power, and therefore hating her along with it. This further fuels her desire to be useful to him, and to try to make him happy even if she claims that as a tool she has no will of her own. Eventhough she killed Mahiru, it was not an act of cold blood, but an act of desperation because she wanted to provide Fuyuhiko the opportunity to escape along with wanting to protect him from the consequences of him carrying out the murder himself.

Peko has a kind heart, and cares deeply about Fuyuhiko but also cares about her fellow classmates. She wishes nothing but good towards them, begging them to "not cause a senseless killing like this ever again." Due to her belief that a tool has no will or opinions of her own, she usually doesn’t express her emotions much. Yet, she is still a very caring and selfless person. Beyond believing she is his tool, Peko’s deep desire to protect Fuyuhiko also comes from how much she cares about him. This soft side of her is shown in for example, her love for animals, especially pandas. However, they usually don’t share this feeling in return. Most animals are scared of her, and run away. She also sometimes looses track of time while doing martial arts, as in the first episode of the Dangan Ronpa 3 despair arc.


She asked Hajime to teach her how to ask someone out on a date. Peko wanted to ask her childhood friend to go on a date after they succeeded in escaping from Jabberwock Island. She finally learned that, "Smiling is not something you have to force. When your heart gets warm, smiles come to you naturally."


Ultimate 
Being trained by the Kuzuryu clan since she was a baby, Peko is quite skilled with a blade. She is entrusted with the safety of the clans' successor Fuyuhiko, proving her skills were greatly trusted by Fuyuhiko's family. Peko's skills rivaled that of Mukuro Ikusaba, the Ultimate Soldier. She was able to block all of Mukuro's attacks in quick succession with her shinai. Despite her skills with her katana, Peko could also use her shinai as a non offensive weapon and even knew how to use the handle as a stepping stool to reach high places. Peko can always find a way to get out of a tight situation using her talent as the Ultimate Swordswoman. After killing Mahiru in the Neo World Program, she used the handle of her shinai as a stepping stool to reach the high window. After escaping through the window, Peko used the loop on her bag, that she used to carry her shinai, to retrieve her shinai.

When fighting a member of the Future Foundation's ultimate task force, Peko found herself on the defensive. She hid behind a water tower, and let her opponent destroy it. She then emerged from the geyser of water and struck him down non-lethally before he could have enough time to counter.

In other 
Peko's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Swordswoman
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「剣道家」	Super High School Level Kendoka (literal)
Super High School Level Swordswoman (FUNimation)
Français Ultime Kendoka	Ultimate Kendoka

Prior to the 
As a baby, Peko was abandoned by her own family and taken in by the Kuzuryu Family, a known yakuza group. From a young age, she was raised alongside the family's young son and eventual heir, Fuyuhiko, and trained to be his personal hitman and bodyguard. She became extremely loyal to him, eventually coming to see herself as a tool meant only to follow her young master's orders, which made her question her own humanity and gave her trouble expressing her emotions.

Fuyuhiko's parents almost always had fights. There were a few times where he was nearly killed in the aftermath of them. However, when something like that happened, Peko was always there by his side.

At some point as a child, Fuyuhiko was kidnapped along with Peko, but they both succeeded in fleeing, and ended up getting lost in a mountain. Peko desperately tried to cheer up Fuyuhiko, but she ended making him cry because he could sense Peko's fear and anxiety. However, they were finally saved because of Peko's ability as a swordswoman.

Peko and Fuyuhiko also went to the zoo at one point when they were kids. At that time, Fuyuhiko challenged the king of the monkeys to a fight. Peko had no choice but to join in the fray to protect him. She thought that Fuyuhiko had a handsome smile at that time.

Peko appeared to develop romantic feelings for Fuyuhiko, knowing that he had a kind heart despite the way he was raised. Their relationship was obviously complicated as she was supposed to be just "a tool" for him and Peko never confessed her feelings. However, in reality, Fuyuhiko liked Peko as well and wished she could be herself and was angry to be her "young master".

Peko is an extremely talented swordswoman, able to beat grown men in kendo, and because of this she was enrolled into Hope's Peak Academy's Class 77th as the Ultimate Swordswoman (her former high school was Shiranui High School). She did not engage with her classmates, but appeared reliable. Even when there was no club practice, she always carried her shinai sword with her.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Peko returns in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, where its story focuses on the story of the Remnants of Despair during The Biggest, Most Awful, Most Tragic Event in Human History.

Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak 
Peko is first seen ating alone inside the school's dojo, being completely silent for quite some time. When she heard someone coming, she reflexively took out her shinai and almost attacked her homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome. Chisa cheerfully told her that the class already started. Peko apologized to her and admitted that she had lost track of time.

After everyone gathered inside the class excluding Chiaki Nanami and the Ultimate Imposter, Peko and her classmates agreed to clean the classroom while waiting for Chisa to gather the rest of their friends.

After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that everyone had waited and that the classroom was clean. When Peko and the students once again bring up that they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
Peko and her classmates took cover on the side of the classroom during Akane Owari and Nekomaru's deadly training session. Peko was about to stop them from using violence, but Fuyuhiko prevented her from doing so.

Peko and the others cleaned the mess that Akane and Nekomaru created, preventing them from having time for a proper meal. Chiaki told Teruteru Hanamura and Hiyoko to make them lunch after they repaired their classroom.

During the break time, Peko and the others happily ate nikujaga that Teruteru and Hiyoko cooked, unaware of Hiyoko's scheme. Peko and the others were greatly affected by the aphrodisiacs that she added during the cooking process. Peko tried to fight the aphrodisiac's effect to help Fuyuhiko prevent Kazuichi Soda from reaching Sonia Nevermind. However, Mikan Tsumiki stopped her, begging her to lend her sword's tip.

After she and the others recovered, Chisa gathered them in their classroom and announced that she elected Chiaki as their class representative. Peko said that she agreed with her teacher’s decision.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, Peko and her classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building.

Peko and Fuyuhiko met in an alley in the school during the break time. She was surprised when Fuyuhiko told her that his younger sister, Natsumi, entered the Reserve Course Department. Peko offered to go check on her, but Fuyuhiko refused and told her that she is not his hitwoman during their time at Hope's Peak. After Ibuki Mioda spotted them, they both immediately disperse. Peko looked at Fuyuhiko's back with a worried expression afterward.

Several days later, Peko and Fuyuhiko visited the morgue where Natsumi's body was kept after she was killed by one of her classmates in Reserve Course. Peko, who waited outside the room, punched the wall in regret, as she completely failed to protect her young master's sibling.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
Peko remained silence when Chisa announced the upcoming annual practical exam inside the classroom. The deaths of Natsumi haunted her mind and affected the class' morale greatly.

At the end of the episode, Peko must bid her farewell to her beloved teacher Chisa as she transferred to the Reserve Course after the bombing incident in the gym that involved one of her classmates, Nagito.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Peko is part of Chisa's welcome back party. She comments that Chiaki had the idea of throwing the party together, and mentions she supported all of them while Chisa was away.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful 
Peko was helping Fuyuhiko packing up his stuff. She asked what they should do with Nagito's stuff and Fuyuhiko told her to leave it. He said Peko has been helping him with his stuff but hasn't taken care of her stuff yet. Fuyuhiko picked up Peko's stuff, and she told him he mustn't, but Fuyuhiko brushed her objection off. Ibuki saw this exchange and questioned when they got so close. Mikan said she thought it was nice that Fuyuhiko and Peko have gotten close. Fuyuhiko stammered that it's just a coincidence.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
Peko and her classmates watch Gundham Tanaka demonstrate his control over a bear in the class. Later, when the Reserve Course riots outside of Hope's Peak, everyone watches in fear and apprehension while Fuyuhiko and Peko calmly wait at the back of the class.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by Chance 
Peko commented that no one would go against the symbol of hope, so the riots outside were a parade. Kazuichi asked what kind of logic is that, and Peko shrugged that that's how the faculty explained it. When Chisa came back to class and told them not to worry about the riots, Peko agreed that it was a matter they shouldn't get involved in. As they wait for Mikan to return to class as well, Nagito showed up and said he saw Mikan in the west district. The class went out to look for her, but Nagito asks Peko to keep an eye on Mukuro Ikusaba - unbeknownst to Peko, this was intended to keep the Ultimate Soldier occupied while Nagito made an attempt on Junko Enoshima 's life.

Mukuro caught Peko and they came to a duel. Mukuro asked why Peko had been following her, and Peko said that one of her classmates asked her to. Mukuro raged that she didn't like to be followed, and tried to attack Peko with her knives, but Peko blocked all of Mukuro's attack with her bamboo sword, revealing a hidden katana underneath the bamboo. Both women recognized that their opponent was no stranger to killing.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Peko is defeated by Mukuro and brought back to class by Mikan. Fuyuhiko rushes to her side, and Peko tells him to run. Fuyuhiko holds Peko as the Chiaki rallies the class go and help Chisa. Peko protests, but Fuyuhiko tells Peko they beat her up badly, and asks if she thinks he can just let that go. Peko seems touched by Fuyuhiko's determination to avenge her honor. Peko stands on her own feet as the entire class rushes to help Chisa. They encounter the enraged reserve course students, and Nekomaru and Gundham stay behind to fend them off while the others make their way underground to help Chisa.

Episode 10 - Smile at Hope in the Name of 
Peko and her classmates continue walking down a long lit corridor. Mikan catches up to them, and Fuyuhiko asks where Chiaki is. Mikan says she hurt her ankle, and is waiting in the next room. A door opens, and Kazuichi screams, but it's just Gundham and Nekomaru, Peko is relieved they are both okay. The class enters a room set up like a courtroom. They stand in the middle as Junko comes onto the screen. She starts her broadcast of Chiaki Nanami's Punishment, and forces the entire group to watch as she slowly tortures Chiaki by making her walk through a death trap. The class wants to help Chiaki, but they find they are rooted to the spot, Peko expressing that she can't move. The Ultimate Imposter wonders if it is because of the video.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Peko, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body.

Soon, Peko and the class are left in tears and completely hypnotized by the video. They can only watch helplessly as Chiaki is brutally murdered, and then the screen turns red. Nagito laughs and says Chiaki was their hope, and that the video was so full of despair. Junko tells the class to say goodbye to Chiaki, and hello to despair. By this time, Peko and the class has completely fallen into despair and are smiling as tears continue to fall down their cheeks. Junko says she is counting on them to help her out.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy 
Peko and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher and started reading a letter she prepared. Peko and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa starts to cry. The patterned swirled return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. Peko expressed she will 'Never kill anyone again' along with Fuyuhiko after he declares that he wants him and Peko to 'lead our people down the right path'. After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activated a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Peko and her class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak Academy's destruction.

Chisa's narration later reveals Peko and Fuyuhiko helping the world fall into despair by killing everyone in the Japanese Diet, as they are seen standing back to back surrounded by dead bodies.

During the 
After witnessing Chiaki's death through the brainwashing video, Fuyuhiko and Peko became part of the Ultimate Despair group that was founded by Junko Enoshima. The members of Ultimate Despair did all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world. Fuyuhiko and Peko entered the Japanese Diet and slaughtered everyone within.

After Junko was executed, the survivors of Ultimate Despair chopped her body up and attached some of her body parts to themselves.

The remnants of Despair were later found by Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by AI Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
At the beginning of the episode, in the flashback, Peko attacked the leader of Future Foundation, Kazuo Tengan upon Fuyuhiko's orders. However, Kyosuke Munakata came to Kazuo's defense, holding off the Ultimate Swordswoman of Despair with his own katana. Despite being reinforced by Nekomaru and Akane, Peko was eventually captured by the Future Foundation along with the other Remnants of Despair.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Peko was one of the students who did not panic when the class was transported to the Jabberwock Island. She, along with everyone else, went exploring after Usami dismissed them.

Before speaking extensively with anyone else on the island, Peko was pulled aside by Fuyuhiko, who ordered her to keep their relationship a secret from the other students. Peko complied, acting as though she and Fuyuhiko had never met before in all future interactions (until the truth was revealed in the second Class Trial).

Peko first introduced herself to Hajime in the lobby of Hotel Mirai; Hajime was immediately taken aback by her intimidating aura. Peko later joined her classmates in relaxing at the beach at Usami's suggestion. When Monokuma appeared and introduced the rules of the "School Trip of Mutual Killing", Peko expressed concern over the safety of the group.

Chapter 1 - Tropical 
In Chapter 1, Peko supported the idea of promoting the Ultimate Imposter as the appointed head of the students.

During the party in the old building, Peko volunteered to guard the duralumin case full of items confiscated by the Ultimate Imposter. She took the case to the office along with a plate of food, intending to stay there for the duration of the party. However, she was forced to leave the office in order to use the bathroom when she was struck by inexplicable stomach cramps. When she emerged, she passed by Nekomaru Nidai, who had been impatiently waiting to use the bathroom himself.

During the Class Trial for the murder of the Ultimate Imposter, Kazuichi initially doubted Peko's innocence due to her absence from the party. However, Nekomaru's testimony cleared her of suspicion, although Peko was left uncomfortable by his bold declaration of her use of the bathroom.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
Monokuma's motivation in Chapter 2, the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case, caused Peko to murder Mahiru in order to save Fuyuhiko who had sought to avenge his younger sister. Fuyuhiko had been angered at Mahiru when he went to talk to her, but before he could do anything, Peko turned up and attacked Mahiru instead, killing her instantaneously by blunt force trauma to the head with a metal bat.

Before Peko killed Mahiru, she brought Hiyoko to the crime scene, then drugged her in order to frame her for killing Mahiru. After ushering Fuyuhiko away, she left the bat and a mask of a cartoon heroine at the scene, along with some red herrings to turn the suspicion to Hiyoko.

After removing Mahiru's corpse, Peko was covered in Mahiru's blood, and was forced to remove it by washing off using the mineral water from the Beach House, since the shower was broken. She returned to Sonia's party soaking wet, and claimed that she had just recently went for a 3 hour swim.

Despite her efforts, at the Class Trial, Hajime manages to single out Peko as the murderer, against Fuyuhiko's protests. She doesn't try to defend herself, but rather, she suddenly 'reveals' herself as Sparkling Justice using the mask of Sun Witch ♪ Esper Ito, a vigilante serial killer who revolves around justice and murders criminals, which Sonia had previously mentioned. Before anyone could figure out what was going on, Peko launched into a long-winded (and somewhat comical) rant about how murder to preserve justice is justified, causing the students to hastily vote her out as the culprit.

However, Sonia belatedly provided evidence as to why Peko couldn't possibly be Sparkling Justice - the serial killer was not Japanese in the first place. Peko had only come up with the idea after overhearing Sonia and Hajime discussing famous serial killers in the library - as she had failed to consider Sonia's ability to read Spanish, she missed the details of where Sparkling Justice was actually based. When confronted with this information, however, Peko calmly admitted her lie, declaring that the ruse - and herself - had already completed its purpose.

Revealing her connection to Fuyuhiko, Peko explained that she had intentionally led the others to vote for her - in her view, Fuyuhiko was the culprit of Mahiru's murder. According to Peko, her role as a bodyguard meant that she was only a tool with no will of her own; she had only killed Mahiru on Fuyuhiko 's orders, making him the true murderer in this trial. Showing a hint of dark satisfaction, Peko confirmed the growing realization among her stunned and horrified peers - thanks to her misdirection, they had voted for the wrong person, meaning that everyone but Fuyuhiko was about to be executed. She brushed off her own imminent demise, explaining that her sole goal from the beginning of Monokuma's "game" was to save her master, and reiterated her status as an expendable tool of Fuyuhiko's will.

Unfortunately for Peko, Nagito pointed out the flaw in her otherwise-perfect plan: Fuyuhiko himself had never said what their relationship was. Despite Peko's pleas, Fuyuhiko refused to call her a mere tool, instead saying that he wanted her to stay as a true human being. Though somewhat disappointed, Peko admitted that she expected such a response from Fuyuhiko as she resigned herself to her fate. In her final moments, she stoically declared that she would not give Monokuma the satisfaction of watching her break down, but her facade cracked noticeably when a grief-stricken Fuyuhiko desperately begged her not to leave him.

During her execution, Peko met Monokuma's endless hordes of robotic soldiers with little emotion, only to accidentally attack Fuyuhiko with her sword. With her master unconscious from shock and blood loss, Peko sacrificed herself to save him, shielding his body with her own to protect him as Monokuma's minions stabbed her to death.

Legacy 
After Peko's execution, Fuyuhiko was found to be barely alive. With prodding from Monomi, Monokuma took Fuyuhiko to the hospital on the third island, where he reflected on Peko's sacrifice. Following his recovery, the Ultimate Yakuza decided to try and work with the remaining students to escape the island together, believing this to be the only way he could hope to honor Peko's death.

Fuyuhiko would continue to mention Peko frequently in his Free Time Events with Hajime, showing his great respect for her companionship and his continued guilt over her death.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
Currently, Peko is most likely comatose, just like most of her classmates. The survivors of the Killing Game are waiting for her and the rest of their classmates to wake up.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Main article: Peko Pekoyama (Illusion)
Real-
After, Nagito awakened from the simulation, he is relived and happy to learn that all of his friends are alive and well. Peko and Sonia are seen on the boat, and appear to be waiting for Fuyuhiko and Kazuichi respectively.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of 
Thanks to Hajime/Izuru's incredible talents, Peko and the others came out of their coma. They were then taken off of Jabberwock Island and brought to the Future Foundation headquarters where they partook in the battle against the brainwashed Future Foundation soldiers.

Peko was seen defeating the Super High School Level Discus Thrower with her bamboo sword. She and Fuyuhiko later joined the rest of their classmates and convinced Ryota not to use his Hope brainwashing video on the whole world. They also invited Ryota to join them to live in peace, and also took the blame for the Final Killing Game, so the Future Foundation could continue to operate.

Afterwards, the group left on a Future Foundation ship and celebrated their new beginning as Peko and the others return to Jabberwock Island.


Main Article: One Woman Army

Kuzuryu Clan:
Fuyuhiko 
It is revealed at the end of Chapter 2 that Peko was raised in the Kuzuryu household, and was assigned to be Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu's personal hitman and bodyguard, meaning she was always around him since youth. She orchestrated Mahiru's murder in an attempt to save Fuyuhiko from the Island and send him back home.

Unfortunately, she underestimated Fuyuhiko's attachment to her, believing that he would sacrifice his "tool" to escape the Island, which proved to be her undoing. Despite this, Peko appears at least partially aware that Fuyuhiko does not share her viewpoint of herself being an expendable pawn, admitting that she had a feeling that her master would not be able to call her a tool to save himself when pressed at the end of the second Class Trial. Fuyuhiko doesn't view Peko as a tool and he just wants her as her normal self. He began to cry, not wanting her to leave him. Peko continued to stay by his side and protected him like when Fuyuhiko tried to save Peko from being executed and interfered her execution. However, he failed and Peko got distracted, accidentally blinding his right eye and getting stabbed by one of the Monokuma soldiers.

In the Island Mode alternate ending and in her last Free Time Event, Peko is revealed to have feelings for Fuyuhiko. In the main story, she's still very close to him, willing to protect him at all times - proved in her execution when she immediately protects Fuyuhiko from the wooden warrior monsters trying to attack him. In the Sixth 'Trial', Fuyuhiko heard Peko's voice speaking to him to snap out of despair, similar to Chiaki Nanami's voice that Hajime heard.

In Danganronpa 3, Peko stays close to Fuyuhiko all the time. She sits behind him in both classes, and only leaves his side to follow Mukuro. Despite how much Fuyuhiko cares about Peko, he is noticeably more colder to Peko in Danganronpa 3, especially when she offers to go find out why Natsumi is in the Reserve Course. Fuyuhiko coldly tells her that there is nothing between them now, and that she is no longer his hitwoman. This noticeably upsets Peko, but he goes on to say he only told her this so she wouldn't do anything crazy. Peko still helps Fuyuhiko by moving his stuff and Fuyuhiko also helps Peko, and tells her to "shut up" when she protests. Ibuki, however, interprets this as them acting like a mature couple. Fuyuhiko is upset when Mikan carries an unconscious Peko back to class, and he holds her in his arms, until she is strong enough to stand on her own. He also tells Peko he can't let "them" (referring to Mukuro and Junko) go for beating her up badly.

As Ultimate Despairs, Fuyuhiko and Peko still remain close. He says he and Peko will lead the gang down the right path, implying he sees them as equals, and they later stand back to back after killing everyone in the Japanese Diet Building. At some point though, they slipped back into their old roles as Fuyuhiko silently orders Peko to fight Kyosuke Munakata.

Natsumi 
Though the relationship between the two of them is unclear, Peko seemed to care deeply about Natsumi, even addressing her as a superior, much like her young master. When Fuyuhiko was looking at his sister's body in the morgue, Peko punched a wall in grief and anger, even managing to make her knuckles bleed.

Reserve Course Students:
Hajime 
During her Free Times Events, Hajime helps Peko to learn how to smile again.

Despite not sharing a close relationship with her in the main story, Hajime has a strong romantic interest in Peko in her Free Time Events and the Island Mode. However, she is oblivious to this and is in fact in love with Fuyuhiko. She is very thankful for Hajime's support and advice and happy to be his friend.

Class 77-B:
Chisa 
Peko seemed to have a great amount of respect for Chisa as her Homeroom teacher. Though she and Chisa didn't interact much, Peko seemed sad when Chisa announced she had to leave them. Peko joyfully attended Chisa's reunion party.

Chiaki 
Peko approved of Chiaki being her class representative. Peko would later praise Chiaki to Chisa for being supportive of them in Chisa's absence, and did not shy away in giving Chiaki all the  for organizing Chisa's welcome back party. Peko was horrified to witness Chiaki's brutual execution at Junko's hands, and was left crying as she witnessed Chiaki being forced to undergo a dangerous gauntlet that left her badly injured and in pain, before being killed.

Mahiru 
Peko and Mahiru actually established a good relationship during the Killing School Trip aside from her becoming Fuyuhiko's "tool" in order to revenge Natsumi's death by killing Mahiru. In Peko's Free Time Events, she started to try to smile again after Mahiru told her that she is the only one who doesn't smile in her photos. Peko likes Mahiru's photo and said that she learned that her photos gave strength to people.

Ibuki 
Ibuki appears to be attracted to Peko. In Chapter 1, when Peko offers to be on guard duty and leaves the room, Ibuki grins and mutters to herself that she feels Peko has "this super cool, melancholy vibe".

In a Special Event during the first chapter, the two are walking together on the beach when they meet Hajime, Kazuichi and Teruteru. Ibuki winks and claims she was holding hands with Peko, though Peko stoically denies this and tells Teruteru not to fantasize about weird things when he imagines the two girls having sex. When Peko talks about splitting open a coconut and describes how she wouldn't make a mistake with a sword, Ibuki gets really excited, screaming that she's so cool and that she might fall in love with her quiet words. She then begins to call her "Peko-Peko". Peko seems to mostly ignore her behavior.

Nagito 
While Peko wasn't close with Nagito, she did have the consideration to ask Fuyuhiko what she should do with his stuff, while most of the class seemed to ignore it. Peko also trusted Nagito enough to separate herself from the rest of the class, including Fuyuhiko, and follow Mukuro Ikusaba at Nagito's request.

Hiyoko 
Peko is one of Hiyoko's prank victims, although not as frequent as Mikan or Kazuichi due to her being sometimes oblivious to things such as smiling. In one of her Free Time Events, Hiyoko told her a "revolutionary technique" on how to smile, but it was actually a children's prank.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Peko Pekoyama
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Peko in order to learn more about her. If he gives Peko a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Peko will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Peko's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Peko's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567X
Peko Pekoyama Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Akane and Nekomaru	Fuyuhiko and Kazuichi	Mikan and Ibuki
Turtle...	Elephant.	Panda
Let's just be friends	I love you	So what do you want?
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 022 Apron Dress DR2 Present 086 Century Potpourri DR2 Present 071 Antique Doll DR2 Present 079 Gold Coated Sheath DR2 Present 089 Sand God's Storm Horn

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Peko grants the following skills:

Lightning Flash	All counterattacks will become "raging".
Effective during Rebuttal Showdown.	6 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Peko Pekoyama

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"My name is Peko Pekoyama. It is nice to meet you, too."
"It is necessary for men and women who live together to respect each other. Don't try anything inappropriate... I would prefer...not to kill anyone."
"Who would dare try to kill...? I'll put a stop to it, with force if necessary."
Chapter 1:

"It'd be foolish to resist if it's just going to make things worse. I hope everyone else feels the same way..."
"Just stop already... This kind of fighting will not get us anywhere."
"However, it is just as Hiyoko said. If we're going to get killed for not doing it...then we must do it."
"I appreciate your concern... However, there are other things we should be focusing on."
"I see... His strong sense of responsibility as our leader was his undoing..."
Chapter 2:

"If you don't understand polite requests to stop, it's not my fault if I'm forced to get a little...violent."
"It doesn't mean anything is going to happen...but you should be careful, just in case."
"Regardless, everyone is going to die if we don't do it. In order for us all to survive, we must do it."
"I will never forgive killing...hm."
"She must feel very strongly about killing..."
"There is no escape... We have no choice but to press forward. Now then, let us go."
"...Let's go. There's no reason for us to waste time here."
"I said it's fine... Saying anything more would just be an exercise in futility." (to Fuyuhiko)
"In order to...protect the justice of this world. I do not sully my hands to satisfy personal grudges..."
"There is only one reason I kill... For the sake of protecting justice!"
"Justice is what makes humans human... It's a virtue that human beings should be proud of. Justice is the eternal sun...and the enduring moon... The protective father...and the smiling mother... If justice ever disappeared from this world... The world would immediately freeze, and people's smiles would vanish... I... will not allow that...! Justice must always be there to guide us, to shine bright above our heads! So I must fight! I must continue to fight to protect justice!"
"As the light of justice shines upon my mask...I expose the hearts of malevolent evil... Justice Complete!"
"There is only one reason I kill... For the sake of protecting justice! Justice is what makes humans human... It's a virtue that human beings should be proud of. Justice is the eternal sun...and the enduring moon... The protective father...and the smiling mother... If justice ever disappeared from this world... The world would immediately freeze, and people's smiles would vanish... I...will not allow that...! Justice must always be there to guide us, to shine bright above our heads! So I must fight! I must continue to fight to protect justice!"
"As the light of justice shines upon my mask...I expose the hearts of malevolent evil... Justice Complete! The center of justice that is pierced by justice! The lead star of justice that shines in the night sky! That would be me... Sparkling Justice! (｀⌒´) Now then...let's execute justice!(｀∀´)"
"I am Sparkling Justice... In the name of sparkling, shining justice, I have come to deliver justice! (￣ー＋￣)"
"This mask is the dividing line. Just like various idols... The sun is revered because it lies just beyond your grasp... Justice should also be the same! (*｀Д´*)ノ"彡☆"
"This world must always be bathed in the light of justice. I must not allow even one shadow... Evil must be eliminated immediately!ヽ(`д´)ノ No matter what, I must not overlook evil!(｀⌒´)"
"To protect justice, of course (●｀п´●) In order to protect justice...I have become its merciless sword! And...executed justice! (｀･ω･´）"
"My true identity...? Hmph, I have already forgotten who I am... It just shows my determination! My determination to protect by throwing away what's most important! I'm willing to become anybody to shower this world with justice! (*｀Д´*)ノ"彡☆ Haaaaaaaaaaahahahahaha!ヾ(＠x▽x＠)ノ"
"I haven't done anything to be ashamed of! (｀⌒´)"
"WRONG! I punished evil in the name of justice! (￣∀￣)=３ That's no reason to condemn me! (●｀п´●)"
"There's no way...you can kill me... Justice can never be killed! (｀ヘ´) You should all know that as well!"
"To protect what's most important to you, you must be prepared to throw away something equally important. Understand!? (*｀Д´*)ノ"彡☆"
"Then I shall be direct... Justice must carry on! In order to keep justice, to keep me, alive, you all must give up your lives! (｀･ω･´）"
"It's not serious...it's justice! (｀曲´) If I fall here...who will combat the evils of this world!? (｀⌒´) Now...follow your hearts of justice that reside within you all...and save my life to protect justice...! Hurry and carry on justice!(ﾟ言ﾟ)"
"For the sake of grand justice, a few sacrifices are unavoidable! (｀⌒´)"
"Don't worry... The justice that you give your life to protect will never go to waste...(ﾉ_・､)"
"Hmph...it appears that...the time has come for this mask to come off... However, that's perfectly fine... It's no longer necessary. And...even if you find out now, it's too late for you all to do anything about it. My duty...has already been finished. My duty as a tool...has already been completed in full."
"That mask has fulfilled its pirpose...just as I have. I have no purpose... I am just a mere tool..."
"Hmph, of course... A tool cannot do anything on its own."
"Yes. From your basic way of thinking about it, you are wrong. Didn't I tell you...? I'm just a tool. That means I'm just a simple tool to be used by that person."
"As I said before, I exist as nothing more than a mere tool... I had no motive for killing Mahiru... No reason to kill...not even the will to kill... I was simply used as a tool. As long as I am a tool, I cannot defy my orders."
"No...I have no aim. But my young master does. My young master planned this from the start. That...is the truth of this case."
"If I'm a human, then I'm not a tool... If that's what you're saying, you're wrong. Because...you just don't know. You just don't know that there are people who only exist to be tools. ...People such as myself."
"Right after I was born and abandoned by my parents...the Kuzuryu Clan took me in. They gave me a reason to exist. I am to fultull my duty as my young master's property. If my young master is attacked, I must defend him as his shield... If he intends to kill, I must be his sword... That is my only reason for living. Before I am human...I am my young master's tool, first and foremost. Until this body of mine can no longer move... I shall fulfill my duty until the very end...!"
"No matter what I am told, I am nothing but a tool for killing... If my young master intends to kill, it is only natural for me to act as his tool."
"A tool is not defined by its will, but by its actions."
"There is no way I cannot worry about you... I am...my young master's tool... A tool to protect my young master... Without an owner...a tool serves no purpose. Please do not worry... I promise I will keep my young master alive and return him safely home..."
"Young master... You have a kind heart, despite being a yakuza... That's why you question your position and constantly worry about it... For you to sacrifice someone else just to escape yourself?... I believe you wouldn't accept that so easily. We've been together ever since we were children. Even a tool would understand that. Even so...I wanted you to escape. I am terribly sorry I will not be able to serve by your side until the very end...young master. ...Good bye. And...I'm sorry for what I've done to you all, too. It may be a selfish request but...please forgive my young master. And please do not cause a senseless killing such as this...ever again...!"
"Just so you know, I will never feel despair. As long as I am a tool...I am fully prepared to die."
"Young master Fuyuhiko... Please permit me to make one final selfish request... I want you to remember... ...the tool, Peko Pekoyama, who used to stand beside you... I would like it if you remembered that."
Chapter 5:

"It's going to be all right. You don't have to worry...I will protect my young master. Now then, let's go forward together."

Peko's first name, (ペコ), is written in katakana (one of two Japanese syllabaries usually used to write loanwords and foreign names) and so doesn't have any special meaning. Pekopeko (ペコペコ), however, is a sound effect onomatopoeia) often used for bowing. The repetition effect is reflected in her name.
"Pekopeko" can also mean "obsequious" or "servile" - befitting the fact she was raised by the Kuzuryu family to be Fuyuhiko's "tool".
Her last name, Pekoyama (辺古山), is composed of 辺 - "border" or "vicinity", 古 - "old", and 山 - "mountain"; making the meaning of the name "Pekoyama" something along the lines of "around the old mountain".
Peko and Sakura Ogami both used to attend Shiranui High School.
Peko presumably learned about the serial killer Sparkling Justice from Sonia, since she heard Hajime and Sonia talk about the serial killer in the library when the group investigated the second island for the first time.
The mask Peko claims to don in the second trial shares characteristics with one of Japan's most prominent mascots, Peko-chan of Fujiya Co., including the outward sticking tongue.
Peko's mask, known as Sunny Witch ♪ Esper Itou-chan, is blond and wears a golden tiara with aquamarine gems - making her somewhat similar in appearance to Sailor Moon.
Peko's death poster in the trial room is crossed out with two blades, in reference to her Ultimate talent.
Peko's Japanese voice actress, Kotono Mitsuishi, also voiced Sailor Moon. She was one of the few voice actors specified by the creators to portray a specific character.
She also shares the same birthday as Sailor Moon, June 30.
Peko also shares her birthday with the headmaster of Hope's Peak Academy, Jin Kirigiri.

Sonia is a young woman in her early twenties, around 22 at youngest. Her virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as her around 17 year old self.

She is a tall, young woman with long light-blonde hair, pale skin, and blue eyes. She wears a green and white dress with a large red ribbon with a blue and silver jewel on the chest and a dark green, almost black, ribbon with diamonds in her hair. She also wears a bracelet on her left wrist, black and gray thigh high socks, and red mary janes.

In one of her official artworks, Sonia wears a golden dress and a white crown.

During her time at Hope's Peak Academy, she wore the standard issued school uniform with a brown vest over her white dress shirt. She also wore a brown hairband with a four-leaf clover on the right side of her hair, black thigh highs, and brown loafers. Her hair was also styled differently.

As a member of Ultimate Despair, Sonia wore a white puffy dress that had a large red rose pinned on it, and a white crown that had sharp edges on it.


Sonia Nevermind danganronpa3 Appearance


Sonia is a cheerful and polite girl with a great interest for Japanese culture. Being a princess, she takes a great interest in many rather ordinary things as well, such as cleaning and even the Japanese restrooms, due to not being familiar with them. She firmly wishes to be treated like a normal Japanese high school girl and her big goal is to have friends of her own age and status. Due to being a foreigner, she occasionally messes ups figures of speech and has a tendency to use very outdated slang in an attempt to socialize with her fellow students. Furthermore, Sonia is fascinated with serial killers and the occult and has actually stated that she likes Friday the 13th, which makes some other students a bit creeped out. She was very interested in visiting Hell when Gundham Tanaka talked about it, and in general she is shown to be very in tune with his dark and bizarre ramblings, seemingly being the only one who understands his way of speaking.

Sonia is very kind and thoughtful, and she cares deeply for her friends, being very protective to those she holds deep connection to. She can also be rather physically affectionate towards her friends, as she glomps Chiaki Nanami during a one scene in Danganronpa 3. Her very polite personality is well-demonstrated by the way she is shown to be kind and polite even towards Monomi and Nagito Komaeda, despite not really liking neither of them. However, she does possess a more hostile side towards Kazuichi Soda, due to his somewhat stalker-like behavior. While she is very friendly, Sonia's commands are rather assertive and captivate the undivided attention of everyone surrounding her. It is stated that whenever she commands people, they feel an instinctive need to bow and listen to her. However, as shown in the Chapter 5, Sonia can also suddenly curse a lot and shout out loud whenever she is very upset or in deep distress.

Because of her upbringing, Sonia can be rather naïve and her general behavior can make her appear a bit ditzy at times, but she is actually smart and capable of complex political analysis, and reveals in her Free Time Events that she has faced many dangerous and stressful situations due to her status as a princess, and she is even skilled and fearless in combat. As a representative and authority figure of her country, she feels she has great responsibility and always tries to stay calm and not show any weakness, even during the killing game. However, during her Free Time Events, she allows her ordinary self to be shown as she admits to Hajime that she is desperate to go home to her people while breaking down in tears. She firmly states that she does not fear death, but she also won't let herself be killed nor kill any of her friends. She has a rather pragmatic side, that is useful during trials. Although she still tries to help as much as she could in trials, her despising the fact that she has to "doubt" her friends, usually becomes a priority, implying that she is very loyal to those she genuinely cares for. During the final trial, it's indicated that she feels deeply ashamed to commit any sexual acts because they would be considered disgraceful, and in general she is shown to be deeply loyal to her country and always prioritizes her people and country over herself, even if it makes her unhappy inside.


Ultimate 
From the day she was born, Sonia destined to become the princess of the Kingdom of Novoselic. In order to become a true dignified princess, she must learn many knowledge such as leadership, foreign languages, economics, international law, and diagnostic medicine. Among the students of Class 77-B, Sonia lives a total different life from her classmates. She claims that she already accepted her destiny as a princess whose life belongs to her country and its people and if she was to die, it would be for no other reason than the sake of her country and people. She hopes that her death would be a meaningful death to her country and people.

Living in a Kingdom that has a very unique law, culture, and tradition, Sonia has grown interest in studying different countries and languages. It was revealed before she was scouted by the Hope's Peak Academy Sonia can speak, read, and write thirty different languages.

Sonia follows every tradition in Novoselic. However, she denied a tradition to consume an animal species named Skong. The people of Novoselic consume Skong so they could be recognized as an adult. Sonia thinks that it is nice to retain purebred Skongs as a symbol of high status, but consuming them to their highest bidder could endanger the species. She planned to harness the energy that Skong and Makango released using the old tradition so she and her generation don't need to completely end the tradition. Sonia is eager to accomplish her plan and guides her people in the right path. According to Hajime, Sonia is a delightful and wonderful princess to her people.

Sonia has grown interested in Freemasonry, which is forbidden for a princess like her. However, her interest is only at its academic and she is quite sad that no one could relate with her feelings. She believes that expanding her knowledge is the duty of every member of the royal family, and thus, making her interested in the occult, cults, and popular dramas.

Sonia states that in her own country, she is a princess before a person; therefore always prioritized her people and country than herself. Sometimes, she disliked that fact and looking forward to enroll in Hope's Peak Academy as a regular student.

In other 
Sonia's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Princess
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「王女」	Super High School Level Princess
Français Ultime Princesse	Ultimate Princess
Abilities 
Military 
Sonia is very knowledgeable on warfare, knowing how to act in such a situation and how to use a large variety of weaponry including firearms and combat vehicles. In Super Danganronpa 2.5, she is seen wearing an assault vest and firing a rocket launcher. In her country, all children receive a course in modern warfare at elementary school.

Her military knowledge is also found in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair when she and the remaining Class 77-B search the Jabberwock military base for information. Sonia understands the different types of military technology and stated that it would be useful for combatting the Future Foundation. Her willingness to go into combat shows her experienced training in this field.


Prior to the 
Before traveling to Japan, Sonia lived a comfortable yet very sheltered life in the kingdom of Novoselic. Sonia states that she didn't have a single friend equal in status to her, making her very lonely. She eventually traveled to Japan to study the culture after developing an interest. She attended In Utero School before enrolling in Hope's Peak Academy.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak Academy 
Sonia was one of the few students of Class 77-B who attended the class along with Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu, Mahiru Koizumi, Hiyoko Saionji, and Mikan Tsumiki. The fact that most of the students make her homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome furious. Chisa's determination to search for her students inspired Sonia, saying that to search her lost "youth" is what she wanted to do in the Academy.

The group began their search by visiting the men's bathroom. Sonia was impressed by the outer appearance of "Japanese" men's room, hinting that there are many differences with her Kingdom's version. After retrieving Nekomaru Nidai from the bathroom, Chisa used Sonia to lure Teruteru Hanamura with her charm. Later, Sonia also used by Chisa to approach the smelly Kazuichi Soda who has a crush on her.

Later, Sonia and her classmates returned to their class. Chisa asked them to clean their classroom as she went to retrieve two remaining students. After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that Sonia and the others had waited and that the classroom was clean. When the students once again bring up that they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for You 
Sonia was taking care of the fainted teacher who attended their class with Mikan on the side of the classroom during Akane Owari and Nekomaru's deadly training session.

Later on, Sonia and the others repaired their classroom together. Afterward, Sonia and her classmates played the games that Chiaki brought. She, Mikan, Mahiru, and Chiaki played the Bomber Guy game.

During break time, Sonia ate a portion of nikujaga which was cooked by Teruteru and Hiyoko. She was under the effect of aphrodisiacs that was secretly added by Hiyoko in the food. When Kazuichi about to molest her when he had the chance, Fuyuhiko tried to stop him.

After having recovered, Sonia visited her friends in the nurse's office and stated her admiration to Chiaki after she protected Hiyoko from Teruteru's dangerous behavior a while ago.

In the next day, Sonia was happy to hear that Chisa wanted to elect Chiaki as their class representative.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, Sonia and her classmates walked past Hajime Hinata heading toward the Main Course building. Later, Sonia and her classmates visited the school's park and played with a rabbit alongside Mikan.

Several days later, Sonia appeared worried at Mahiru who was crying on Hiyoko's chest after she received news about the death of her friend from the Reserve Course, Sato.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
Unlike her usual self, Sonia remained silent as she listened to Chisa's announcement about the upcoming practical exam. The deaths of Natsumi Kuzuryu and Sato affected her class's morale greatly.

At the end of the episode, Sonia broke into tears as she couldn't stand bidding farewell to her beloved teacher, Chisa, as she had to transfer to the Reserve Course as a means of taking responsiblity of Nagito's involvement in the bombing incident in the gym. Chisa comforted Sonia, saying that she would return to them someday.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Sonia and her classmates held a welcome back party for Chisa at Chiaki's request half a year after her teacher's time in the Reserve Course ended. She complimented Chiaki for her hard work in organizing the party. Later, Sonia and Gundham Tanaka were in sync in welcoming Chisa back using Gundham's unique way of speaking. It was revealed that during Chisa's transfer, Sonia started to pick up on Gundham's habits.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
Sonia asked where Chisa may be, seemingly missing her absence and Peko Pekoyama replies that she is at the faculty office for the day, even though at that time she was meeting with Juzo Sakakura. The next day, Sonia appeared pleased that Chisa has returned to teaching.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
When Gundham brought a tamed bear into the classroom, Sonia wanted to get closer to it, stating that 'it is adorable' while blushing. Gundham assured her that 'Grizner' will only attack a demon many ranks higher, to Sonia's shock, clasping her hands with worry of being a low-ranked demon.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by 
Sonia expressed her disappointment along with the rest of the class when Nagito returns rather than Mikan. In the end, they all decide to go look for her after Nagito told them he noticed Mikan in the West District. The class split off into groups, with Sonia searching along with Gundham and Kazuichi.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Sonia and the rest of the class reconvened at the school classroom as they are unable to find Mikan, assuming what Nagito told them was false information. Chiaki reaches the classroom with an unconscious Nagito, explaining to them that Chisa is in danger, Sonia, despite being very worried by this, agrees to help. Nagito convincingly makes clear that it will be dangerous and there is a possibility of them dying, to which Sonia contemplates these concerns but Chiaki convinces her otherwise.

The Ultimate Imposter reveals his true identity, much to Sonia's shock along with the rest of the class although they come to accept it quickly. Nagito wishes to go with them although doesn't have the strength to walk, Sonia commanding Kazuichi to give him a piggyback ride to which he agrees swiftly.

After leaving the Main Course building, the Reserve Course students seeks to take them on in battle to open placements on the Main Course, Sonia and the class go on ahead, leaving Nekomaru and Gundham to fend them off, Sonia wishing them luck.

On the way down the stairway to Junko's lair, everyone becomes worried for Gundham and Nekomaru's safety although Kazuichi convinces Sonia that Gundham knows how to get things done before regretting helping his romantic rivals credibility with Sonia.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope 
Sonia and the class continue down the corridor after making their descent of the stairway, Mikan eventually catching up with them. After a door is flung open unexpectedly, with multiple eyes appearing in the darkness, Kazuichi screams loudly, catching the attention and dismay of Sonia who puts her hands to her mouth. Only to find it was Nekomaru and Gundham, Sonia clasps her hands, pleased that they are both okay. Ibuki proclaims all that is left is to save Chisa, to which Sonia and the rest of the class agree.

Mikan, now leading the group, approaches a large red door at the end of the corridor, pressing a button which opens the door, Sonia and the rest of the class follow her inside. Once inside, Junko reveals multiple monitors showing Chiaki Nanami's Punishment, Sonia horrified by what she is seeing, wants to find a way to save Chiaki but is powerless, expressively stating 'she can't move' as the brainwashing techniques of the video has forced them to continue watching.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Sonia, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. As the broadcast ends, Sonia and the class fall silent, with a patterned swirl in their eyes, they have lost all their hope and are now Ultimate Despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye Hope's Peak 
Sonia and the rest of the Class 77-B have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated she has been honored to be their teacher, and started reading a letter she prepared, Sonia and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turned on, and Chisa started to cry. Sonia stated she is happy to have been a part of the class, before starting to cry also. The patterned swirls return in their eyes as they all made a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. Sonia swore she will make her country a peaceful one with no war. After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activates a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Sonia and her class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak's destruction.

Chisa's narration later reveals Sonia commanding the destruction of her home country from a monitoring room, helping lead the world into despair.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
As a member of Ultimate Despair, Sonia was shown commanding an army (presumably the military of Novoselic) with Monokuma helmets on, with Mahiru taking photographs to spread despair across the world. At some point, Sonia was imprisoned by the Future Foundation, with Makoto Naegi putting her into the Neo World Program with the other captured Remnants of Despair.


Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
During the events of the game, Sonia states that she won't let herself be killed nor kill any of her friends. Her words come true, and she is one of the survivors at the end of the game.

Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Sonia was one of the students who did not panic when they were transported to the island. She, along with everyone else, went exploring after Usami dismissed them.

Sonia is first seen in the Hotel Restaurant being teased by Teruteru. Later, she and the groups take Usami's present and happily play at the beach on the first island, though not everyone seems happy about it. Later on, Monokuma came and changed their normal Field Trip, into a Field Trip of Mutual Killing.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
In the beginning, Sonia appears at the restaurant, and questions who made the food, if it wasn't Teruteru. When she's questioned by Hajime, she'll comment on how Monokuma's body shape doesn't seem like it would be suitable for fine movements, and she questions of the food will be okay because of it.

In the first chapter, Sonia was eager to clean the Old Lodge, but Nagito Komaeda was elected to clean it instead of her, as a result of his luck which made her sad because she had never went "cleaning" before.

Chapter 2 - Sea and Punishment, Sin and 
In the second chapter, Sonia held a girls-only party at the beach, at which most of the girls on the island attended. Much to Kazuichi's surprise and disappointment, she wears a full-body wetsuit to the event, but it's interrupted by Mahiru, one of the girls who rejected her invitation, being found dead in the beach house.

Sonia recognizes the mask that were left by the culprit near Mahiru's corpse. It's the mask of a serial killer known as Sparkling Justice. This evidence made her believe that the serial killer was responsible for Mahiru's death, not one of the trapped students.

However, near the end of the trial, Sonia reveals that Sparkling Justice was not originally Japanese, and this is proof that Peko could not possibly be the vigilante. This comes after the vote, but since Peko is ultimately considered the culprit, the rest of the class is able to pass the trial.

Chapter 3 - Trapped by the Ocean 
In the third chapter, Sonia was one of the students who wasn't affected by the Despair Disease, so she, along with the other non-affected students, moved to the Motel on the third island. Sonia met with Hiyoko, who, after bathing for the first time in days, is unable to tie her own obi properly, since Mahiru, who helped her before, was murdered.

Sonia suggests Hiyoko to use the full-body mirror in the live house, which results in Hiyoko walking in on Mikan while she's in the process of murdering Ibuki Mioda, causing Mikan to kill Hiyoko. Sonia is briefly suspected due to not having an alibi at the time of the crime.

Chapter 4 - Do Ultimate Robots Dream of Electric Clocks?
In the fourth chapter, Sonia became excited to ride the Roller Coaster because there are no amusement parks in her kingdom.

During a conversation while the entire remaining cast were debating whether or not to ride the roller coaster, Gundham tells a quick story of how he went to a demon-filled amusement park in Hell. Sonia asks to accompany him the next time he goes, in which he replies that he must offer the blood of a virgin as the entrance fee and that he'd use Sonia's. She promptly says that her blood would not be suitable to meet those demands, alluding to her no longer being a virgin. Kazuichi was very displeased about that comment.

Sonia also developed a friendship with Gundham, hanging around the Surprise House with him. However, she refused to believe that Gundham was the culprit behind the murder of Nekomaru.

Gundham is ultimately convicted, and Sonia pleads with Monokuma to spare him, but Gundham scolded her for that, calling her attempt to intercede with someone prepared to meet his fate as "dishonorable" and unbecoming of someone like her. After Gundham's executed, Sonia is the one who tells the others that if they give up on life, Gundham might return from the pits of hell and be angry with them.

Chapter 5 - Smile at Hope in the Name of 
In the fifth chapter, Sonia is extremely upset by Nagito making light of the Ultimate Imposter and Gundham's deaths. She contributed to the investigation by discovering that the bomb in the Doll factory was a fake, and when she proved that the bomb was a fake one, she tested to see if it would explode in front of the abandoned Hope's Peak Academy building.

During the trial, as Hajime realizes and when the traitor confesses, they can deduce that Chiaki Nanami is the traitor from the Future Foundation in the group, Sonia tries to argue against him, by claiming that if Hajime's proof is that Chiaki knew Nagito's bombs were fake, the same could apply to her, but Hajime points out that Monomi saw Sonia testing the bombs, and reported to Chiaki. After the verdict, Sonia, in tears, tells Chiaki that she does not believe that Chiaki would ever betray the group, and still considers her a friend.

Chapter 6 - This is the End Goodbye Academy of 
After witnessing her friends fall one by one because of this sadistic game, Sonia vows to stay alive. Along with others, Sonia is in disbelief that Hajime is actually Junko Enoshima's pawn for her sadistic project, which was previously thwarted by Makoto Naegi and the Future Foundation. When she believes that the Forced Shutdown will cause her to lose her memories, Sonia begins to despair, believing that it will render everyone's efforts and the deaths of their friends meaningless.

However, when Hajime convinced everyone to use Forced Shutdown, Sonia told Alter Ego Junko (despite Alter Ego Junko saying that they'll forget their friends and their deaths) that Hajime's words made her realize that the future they make will be the future their friends made for them; so for their deceased friends' sakes and efforts not going in vain, she won't back down and chooses to activate the Forced Shutdown.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
After the defeat of Alter Ego Junko and the virtual version of Chiaki was finally gone, Sonia is one of the few that survives. Sonia and former Ultimate Despair members opted to stay on the Jabberwock Island, possibly in hopes that they could do something to help their comatose friends.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Main article: Sonia Nevermind (Illusion)
Real-
After Nagito awoke from Neo World Program, he learned that all of his friends, including Sonia, were alive and awake. They all then boarded the boat that would take them to the Future Foundation Headquarters.

Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and Students of 
Sonia returned in Side: Hope alongside the rest of the Class 77-B, who had been resurrected by Izuru Kamukura although he was now combined with the personality and memories of Hajime after leaving the Neo World Program.

They arrived at the island where the Future Foundation Headquarters were situated, having left from Jabberwock Island and proceeded by rescuing Byakuya Togami and Yasuhiro Hagakure from being trapped under rubble, they then began their fight against Ryota's brainwashed rescue squad troops, including the Ultimate Elite Task Force.

Nekomaru is seen facing off against a robot unit from the Super High School Level Elite Task Force of Future Foundation but became surrounded, fortunately Kazuichi sent an army of remote control Mini-Mecha Nidai robots to defeat the second monobeast. Seeking Sonia's praise and admiration as she watched from above, he felt his heroics had gone unnoticed but Sonia expressed it was quite impressive, causing him to blush gleefully as she smiled in return.

Later on, Sonia helped convince Ryota to abandon his plan to brainwash the world. When Hajime began persuading him to join them in atonement, Sonia stated they weren't atoning for sake of forgiveness and that she would be happy to have him join them, Kazuichi promptly agreeing the same.

Shortly afterward, Sonia and the other Former Remnants of Despair shoulder the blame for the Final Killing Game in a broadcast to the Future Foundation, relieving the organization of any wrongdoing.

With the battle won, Sonia and the Class 77-B return to Jabberwock Island. She is last seen speaking with Gundham as the boat takes them home.


Class 77-B:
Gundham 
Though they were already shown to speak to one another before, Sonia and Gundham's friendship truly blooms during Chapter 4 after they finished the Roller Coaster ride and Sonia asked to accompany Gundham on a trip to an amusement park in hell. They became very close due to their complimenting interests (such as Sonia's interest in the occult with his odd behavior, or her liking of his "cute hamsters"). Sonia showed interest in Gundham's hamsters multiple times, which successfully flustered Gundham and made him blush.

She constantly sides with Gundham, even going off with him to explore the Fun House before Kazuichi noticed. In the main story, Sonia is also the only one who has made Gundham blush. It's implied that they have a romantic interest in each other, much to Kazuichi's annoyance.

Sonia is also the only one that Gundham does not refer to as kisama (a way of saying 'you' that suggests contempt, or alternatively an archaic polite form of 'you') or by their last name, instead calling her "she-cat" at one point or "the Dark Queen", which is mentioned to be his fantasized version of Sonia. He claims that the Dark Queen has great power, which has not been awakened yet.

When Gundham is deemed the culprit of Chapter 4, Sonia refuses to believe it, urging him to object against Hajime's accusations. Gundham did defend himself but was unusually silent, and Sonia begged him to say something many times. She also pleaded with Monokuma to save Gundham from his execution, but finally let Gundham go after she was convinced by Gundham himself. He told her actions were "unbecoming of someone of your status". 

Gundham's Four Dark Devas of Destruction are entrusted into Sonia's care after his "death". After Gundham's execution, Sonia has a new resolve to make it out alive without anymore killings because of his last words about not giving up.

During their time at Hope's Peak Academy, Sonia latched onto Gundham's eccentric personality when Chisa left and the two bonded. Sonia enjoys the occult and she appears to like the Four Dark Devas, calling them cute. She is shocked when Gundham refers to her as a low ranking demon.

After Gundham returns from his coma and the former Remnants of Despair finish assisting the Future Foundation, Sonia is seen eagerly talking to Gundham on the ship, admiring his hamsters.

In Danganronpa V3 bonus mode, Gundham thinks that Sonia is preforming a demon ritual but she tells him that is simply cleaning. Sonia tells Gundham that she couldn't hang out with her friends in her old country like this.

Chiaki 
Real-life 
Sonia admires Chiaki greatly, both as her classmate and the class representative. Sonia was very close to her as shown in the despair arc of Danganronpa 3. She always hugged and complimented her when Chiaki was talking. Sonia was impressed with Chiaki's effort to unite her classmates using her games that she brought and holding Chisa's welcome back party. Sonia, like the rest of her class, cried when they watched Chiaki slowly being tortured to death.

AI 
Chiaki was one of Sonia's closest friends during the Killing School Trip. In Chapter 2, Sonia invited Chiaki to her beach party, which she attended, although it was cut short due to Mahiru's murder. In Chapter 5, Sonia furiously defends Chiaki when she is accused of being the traitor, even going as far as to try to push suspicion onto herself. When Chiaki is voted as the culprit, Sonia tearfully tells her that she doesn't think Chiaki could ever betray them, and says that no matter what, they'll always be friends, which Chiaki agrees to.

Kazuichi 
Kazuichi has had a liking for Sonia since their times in Hope's Peak Academy. Kazuichi always supports Sonia's claims and defends her from any contradictions. Although Kazuichi shows a lot of interest in her, Sonia makes it very clear that she is far from interested and when talking to Hajime she refers to him as her stalker. She also is much more hostile towards Kazuichi than she is towards any other student. However, after escaping Jabberwock Island to assist the Future Foundation, Sonia smiles at and praises Kazuichi for successfully destroying an army of Monokumas, showing that she now thinks of him as a friend and is at least making an attempt to be nicer to him. This is further shown when she appears to be waiting for Kazuichi to board the boat that will take them to the Future Foundation's Headquarters.

Hiyoko 
Hiyoko is one of the people that Sonia tends to trust and invites in some events. Sonia even shows concern towards Hiyoko as when Hiyoko struggles putting on her kimono in Chapter 3. Sonia was devastated how Hiyoko, Ibuki, and Mikan are dead since they all died in the same case and states how she remembers Hiyoko dance while mourning for Mahiru. In turn, Hiyoko states to Hajime that she feels irritated how some are over-pampering Sonia like crazy including Kaizuichi. Hajime states that Hiyoko might have been jealous which Hiyoko denies and holds hatred towards Sonia in Hiyoko's last Free Time Events.

Reserve Course Students:
Hajime 
Sonia had taken a liking to Hajime over the course of the Killing School Trip, to the point she thought he was a hero from prophecy that would bring happiness to her land and wanted him to rule the Kingdom of Novoselic together after they escaped from the island.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Sonia Nevermind
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Sonia in order to learn more about her. If he gives Sonia a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Sonia will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Sonia's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Sonia's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567
Sonia Nevermind's Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Nobitalic Kingdom	Novoselic Kingdom	Novosauna Kingdom
Mamango	Marango	Makango
--	--	--
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 011 Gugelhupf Cake DR2 Present 021 Brightly Colored Jeans DR2 Present 074 Another Battle DR2 Present 086 Century Potpourri

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Sonia grants the following skills:

Envious Influence	Greatly increases Influence Gauge.
Effective during the class trial. Cannot be combined with Attentive Influence.	7 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Sonia Nevermind

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"My name is Sonia Nevermind. I am foreign exchange student from a small European kingdom called Novoselic. I may cause trouble here and there, but I hope we can get along well."
"So, to be able to do something like this with everyone is a new experience for me... ...I shall extol your virtues."
Chapter 1:

"I did not know Mr. Monokuma could cook... His appearance would suggest he is ill-suited for intricate work... I wonder if it is all right."
"Furthermore, though Byakuya may be forceful, I believe he has the qualities to be an effective leader. Do you not remember what he said about being destined to stand above all others? He is truly attempting to fulfill that destiny by the strength of his own will. His impressive stature and physique is a testament to his desire to be the Ultimate Affluent Progeny, no? That...is truly grand."
"Society is much like fruit. Once it matures, it is inevitable that it will eventually rot. As the economy grows, the private sector stagnates as elders and bureaucrats become more and more powerful... As time passes, this power becomes the status quo, and crushes the seeds of any possible reformation... ...Such a sad trend."
"We should not have these fights. We are all friends here...!"
"Kazuichi! You should not doubt your friend!"
"I must tread carefully so my feet do not stumble. My adventurous heart is pounding with excitement!"
"Now that I have finally made friends...there is no way I can doubt them...!"
"If we are to survive...this is our only path."
"Truly, I am culturally ignorant. I am ashamed of myself..."
"He seems like the sort of person whose eyes light up while watching "Friday the 13th"... Just like me."
"Nothing will come from fighting like this. There...there is something else that we must do. There...is something more important we must do. Do our best."
"We must first leave here...and get some rest. And then...we shall all work together and do our best. Do our best so we never have to come back here again. That is what...I believe we must do right now..."
Chapter 2:

"After all, it is essential that serial killers be mysterious! What an expert, yes!"
"Please hold on! It is a mistake to refer to these people as mere murderers! Coming in contact with a value system that differs from your own is a very important matter. Serial killers...their value system is very different than the norm... What a marvelous existence! Haaaaah! I'm totes intrigued!"
"However, an army marches with its stomachs. That being said, let us have breakfast."
"Yeah...I can't do this anymore... Investigating, the Class Trial...seriously, I'm done..."
"Mahiru...probably wants us to do this, too. She would want us to reveal the truth behind her death... But...what she really wanted... She probably wanted to spend time with all of us peacefully...without something like this happening..."
"I mean...no matter how much I think about it, I simply cannot believe it! That one of us is capable of committing such a horrible murder... No matter how much I think about it, I simply cannot believe it!"
"Fuyuhiko, you cannot do that. Only a coward threatens women."
"There should be a new clue contained in what Hiyoko has told us... So...let us believe Hiyoko's words and discuss it once again with everyone!"
"But that is... You are wrong... You are not a tool, Peko. Because...if you are a tool... Then what was all that time...we spent together!?"
"H-However...we must put that aside since Peko has already been punished... O-Or else we will not be able to advance forward...!"
Chapter 3:

"Get back! Who do you think I am!? Ahhh...that was unintentional...! It is okay...please be your usual self. I shall go wash my face and come back one more time! Now then, ta-ta!"
"It would be a waste to leave behind...such wonderful photos."
"...Hiyoko has a very kind heart."
"You are right... Fuyuhiko will not recover any faster if we just stand around and do nothing."
"N-Now is not the time for regret! Let us make haste!"
"It has happened once again... Two of my cherished friends died at the same time... I cannot believe it. This is the place where...Ibuki sang for Fuyuhiko... Hiyoko...looked like she was having so much fun listening to her music...And those two are no longer here... Ah...such a tragedy...!"
"...We must do this then. For the sake of the two who have fallen..."
"Hiyoko... It must be my fault, after all. Then...I must learn the truth behind this murder most foul! Now then, let us proceed!"
"The light of hope...? Um...I am happy Nekomaru is returning to us, but...but I... Three of our friends just died... So I honestly cannot be happy... However... ... Even so, I am still happy... If Nekomaru is safe, I am truly happy...!"
"Ibuki, Hiyoko...Mikan. Can you hear us? If you are unhappy, I apologize... However...please forgive me for right now... I...want to warmly welcome Nekomaru when he returns to us!"
Chapter 4:

"Stop fighting!!!"
"Rather...I feel as though the opportunity to kill increases every time we go to a new island... So...it might be best if we do not go..."
"If everyone is going, I shall accompany you as well."
"Huh!? There are amusement parks in hell!? I have never heard of such a thing! By all means, please allow me to accompany you next time!"
"Why have you given up!? There may still be something on this floor we have not searched yet!"
"I agree. Monokuma's eccentric taste would shock even an Indian."
"Yes, our team's discovery is number one! We shall not lose!"
"It is far too dangerous, even as an experiment! It is possible that we might violate the laws of robotics!"
"Why would Nagito say such cruel things...? The Nagito we know...would not talk like that, right? It is as if...he is a different person altogether!"
"I do not quite understand, but if it will satisfy Nagito... We should try it out...at the very least."
"I might have figured out the reason behind the chain's disappearance! Perhaps...what made this incomprehensible phenomenon possible is... Magic! Miiiiiindreak! Miiiiindreak!"
"Imbecile! I am not some woman with flexible legs!"
"Understood. Then I shall give it my all... Sonia, here I go!"
"No, you are far greater than the Ultimate Weapon, since you wield your Four Dark Devas of Destruction."
"Fo' sho! I shall leave this matter to your discretion!"
"Wh-Why are you asking that now...? Do you harbor a grudge because my kingdom destroyed your homeland?"
"If it is too heavy to carry...let them roll it... Just like if there is no bread, let them eat cake!"
"I-Is it really all right to accept the situation so easily!?"
"Silence, pest!"
"Please believe me! We are not lying!" (to Gundham)
"I cannot believe it... I just...cannot believe... You... You killed...Nekomaru...? I cannot believe something like that!"
"Wh-Why...? Why did you fight...? We are all friends... Why couldn't you stop this!? Even if both sides agreed... It was still wrong!"
"You...are right... This time around...we must move forward... We must continue to live and believe in our friends... If not... Gundham will most likely crawl his way out of hell, and I presume he will be very cross with us..."
Chapter 5:

"In the end...Gundham told us to never give up on life... So I will never give up. I shall fight until the very end. Gundham...please watch over me."
"She is right! No matter what, you are our friend! You know, there is a saying in Japan! Fear is grateful for the danger!"
"Settle down! If you have the power to fight among yourselves, then direct that power toward our enemy! Now then, let us go forth! Offense is the best defense!"
"We were so distracted by all of the horrible situations that kept happening, one after the other... We might have overlooked...a more pressing issue."
"Kazuichi Soda! Shut up! How can you not believe in your friends after everything we have endured together!?"
"What Nagito just said... Is he implying that believing in each other is a weakness!? That is absurd!"
"The issue is not with what he means! Please take back what you said about Byakuya dying in vain! You have been acting very strange lately! I do not like this version of Nagito we have been witness to!"
"There is no such person! I mean...the notion that one of us has been deceiving us all along... I will never, ever believe that!"
"Gundham...gave his life so he could teach us something important... At the time, Gundham scolded me for attempting to stop his execution... But looking back on it...he would forgive me with a smile on his face, right? Gundham stayed true to himself until the very end... I will never forget that!"
"This is not a request...this is an order!"
"Then...I may not be competent, so please be patient with me." (to Hajime)
"That is right. Courage and recklessness are completely different. If you were shot at by a gun like that, you would have more holes in you than a Beatrice's nest..."
"How can you grip the trousersnake if you do not enter its den!? It is a saying for situations like this, right? When you know there is danger but you still must face it! ...What does "grip the trousersnake" mean anyway?"
"Then what would you have us do!? Just wait until we all die!? That...is no different than when we were in the Funhouse... And what did we learn there? We learned not to give up on living...right?"
"Um...I have not given up yet. I will do my very best to live until the very end. If not...I will not be able to face Gundham, Nekomaru, or the others who have died!"
"So this is the power of the Japanese "teru teru bozu"...!"
"E-nough already! W-We already have enough to deal with concerning Nagito... Please...do not say anything else that will confuse us...!" (to Monokuma and Monomi)
"If only everyone could go home... Nothing would make me happier... No...we should finish the Class Trial, then we can think about what will happen after."
"Oh...oh my...? Do you...do you suspect me? I-It is a misunderstanding! I am not the killer! Jesus! Shit! You son of a bitch!"
"The bomb was not real, it was merely a fireworks display. God damn it all to hell!"
"A plushie bomb is an act of terrorism! Let us rip these apart right away so we can confirm it!"
"So...it is going to happen again... The cruel conflict...where we must doubt our friends..."
"Nagito...was problematic in many ways...but he was also a valuable asset during the trials..."
"Damn right it is"!
"Just as I thought, it *was* the wind pressure! A dust devil blown here from glorious Japan!"
"Akane! You should not give it away for free! Make sure they pay you first!"
"Th-There is a limit to his constitution! If you got penetrated by something is so big and thick, you would die instantly!"
"Like I said...if you get penetrated by something so big and thick, you would die instantly!"
"I am sorry... Of course this mystery will not be solved that easily..."
"It seems we are stuck... Shall we have tea time?"
"Exactly! We should cooperate at a time like this!"
"Is giving up all we can do?"
"W-we were not tricked! After all, we have been working together all this time... We have been helping each other all this time... Chiaki...being a traitor... Being a member of that horrifying Future Foundation... That is obviously a lie!"
"If you say you are the traitor, please provide an explanation that will help us understand! We cannot vote until we are satisfied. That is what you said earlier, Chiaki!"
"There must be some mistake! I mean...if Chiaki is the traitor... What was all that time we spent with her!? Was that all a lie too!? Chiaki is... She is being controlled by Monokuma. That is why...we should help her..."
"Why are you saying such things!? Do you really want Chiaki to be the traitor!? ...I will not believe it! I refuse to believe Chiaki is the traitor! There is...just no way!"
"Enough already... Please do not say another word... I do not want this anymore... I am so very tired...of doubting people... A-And...just because she knew the bomb was a fake... ...does not mean we should decide she is the traitor!"
"Are you telling us to believe in you...and sacrifice you? That is just too cruel..."
"I-I cannot believe it... Even though I do not want to believe it... ...There is no choice but to believe, right?"
"E-Even if you were a traitor... You...never betrayed us. Chiaki...you will always be our friend. Even now... We don't blame you for this! That's why you don't need to apologize!"
"Now then, let us make haste to ancient ruin! As long as we work together, we will not lose to Monokuma or anyone else!"
Chapter 6:

"Hell yes!"
"It will be fine... There will no longer be any situations where we must exchange each others' lives... So we should do our best as well! Like they say, "It is not scary if everyone stops at a green light"!"
"I shall do my best to obtain a wonderful clue that will be useful to everyone. Now then, excuse me."
"Please do not compare reality to contact lenses!" (to Monokuma)
"Do not joke about the world ending!" (to Monokuma)
"I-It is cowardly of you to j-just ignore us!"
"But...if we do not understand the principles behind it, then we do not even know if it is really possible..."
"There is no way we can choose to stay here after all we've been through..."
"This is nothing to LOL about!" (to Alter Ego Junko)
"Th-The footage you recorded with the surveillance cameras...was shown to the Future Foundation? Wh-What shall I do...? I did a lot of...disgraceful things in front of those cameras! I will never be Queen now! Please forget what you saw!"
"I do not want any more last minute plot twists..."
"H-How...much of ourselves do we have to sacrifice?"
"Um...I wonder... I do not really understand it myself, but... I just...I just saw it. When my body felt so heavy that I could not move, when I felt as though I was sinking into a deep, black sea... It was at that moment, I somehow heard Hajime's voice... And though it was just a flash, I saw it. Like a lighthouse beacon shining across an ocean of darkness... A warm, yet resolute, light... The one who shined that light...it was probably... ...You saw it too, right Hajime? The future we are going to create from this moment on, it is also the future that everyone has created, right? Then...there is no way we can stop now!"
"Um...I am sorry to trouble everyone but... Even if we awaken in the real world and forget about what transpired here... ...it will still have meaning, right?"
"Even if I forget...I will use all my might and remember!"

The name "Sonia" is a Slavic variant of the name "Sophia", which means "wisdom". It is very widespread nowadays, especially in eastern Europe and Scandinavia.
"Sonia" is also a feminine given name in Hindi, derived from the word सोना sonāa, which means "golden" - matching Sonia's hair color.
Sonia's surname is taken from the title of the band Nirvana's second album, Nevermind.
Her home country of Novoselic is named after Nirvana's bassist, Krist Novoselic.
If you remove the "H" and the "S" from the "INUTEROHS" crest on her dress, it spells "In Utero", the name of Nirvana's final studio album.
In Utero is also the name of the high school Sonia attended before Hope's Peak.
In Chapter 4, Sonia indirectly declares to Gundham that she isn't a virgin. However, this may be because she misunderstood due to being a foreigner, as in Japanese Gundham used the word shojo (処女) for virgin, which when spoken sounds identical to shōjo (少女) meaning little/young girl, implying Sonia meant she is not a little girl.
The term 'virgin' also refers to someone who has not used their blood for a satanic ritual, and due to her obsession with the occult, it could also mean that she has partaken in such a rite in the past.
However, during the Trial on the 6th Chapter, Sonia reveals she has been doing "indecent" things in front of the surveillance cameras. It's only implied what she means, but Byakuya Togami agrees with this.
In Danganronpa 3, Sonia again heavily implies that she isn't a virgin, and this time the characters are talking about a sexual situation.
In an interview with Yoshinori Terasawa, he states that Sonia probably adopted the Four Dark Devas of Destruction after Gundham's execution.
She can be regarded as a red herring for the culprit of Chapter 2. In the debate of what happened to the blood on the culprit, Ibuki pointed out per agree point that the culprit could have worn a wetsuit to take care of the bloodstains. Sonia wore a wetsuit when the girls decided to go to the beach and met up at the diner. The wetsuits are shown to be in the same closet at the beach house where Hiyoko was lying unconscious and the killer was hiding. Sonia also pointed out that she arrived late to the meeting, being noted by Kazuichi to have been after 4:00 pm, so after Mahiru was murdered, because she had trouble putting on the swimsuit, which also was a surprise that she decided to wear one. It's also noted by Kazuichi to Hajime in the supermarket that the entire idea with the beach and meeting at the diner came from Sonia which was also supposed to be girls only.
Sonia has by far the most agree points in the entire game at 6.
One of her sprites is a reference to Rosie the Riveter.
In Island Mode, Sonia make a reference to Mafuba, a technique designed to seal demons away in a famous manga, Dragon Ball.
Sonia's Japanese voice actress, Miho Arakawa, is known for her role as Himari Takakura from the anime Mawaru Penguindrum, and was one of the two voice actors requested by the creators to portray a specific character in the game, the other being Kotono Mitsuishi, voice actress of Peko.
Arakawa also voiced Tsubasa Kamii in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc.
Sonia's English voice actress, Natalie Hoover, also voices Monophanie in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.
Sonia's stage actress, Jamie Natsuki, is married to Gundham's stage actor Masahiro Inoue.

Teruteru is a young man in his early twenties, around 22 at youngest. His virtual avatar in the Neo World Program appeared as his 17-year-old self.

He has a plump body and wears a classic chef outfit. It is composed of a white apron with a red undershirt, a red handkerchief/scarf around his neck. Three silver stars are pinned on the right side of his undershirt. A small chef's hat sits on his head. He has dark brown hair all over that is styled in a pompadour that noticeably leans to the left, and constantly carries around a comb to fix his hair.

Unlike the characters of the first and the second game, Teruteru's eyes are normally two, dark dots or remain closed in the anime fashion. One sprite expression of his comically has his eyes in a style reminiscent of bishounen manga, and thick eyebrows accompanied with a nosebleed.

As the Ultimate Despair, he has red clothes, along with a larger red chef's hat. The scarf around his neck is now yellow. He tends to carry food ingredients on his back.




Teruteru is very lewd and usually can be seen hitting on anyone near him, male and female alike, often to the point of sexual harassment. Similar to Hifumi Yamada from the previous game, he can react to the slightest innuendo that surfaces in a conversation. However, he goes much further in his behavior than Hifumi, as he is completely fine with touching others without their consent and he's even been known to drug people with his food (like Hajime during the last Free Time Event) and try to take advantage of gullible ones (like trying to trick Sonia into sucking "poison" out of him). This, along with the fact that he very openly speaks about sexual things he's into, makes the others sometimes feel uncomfortable and grossed out around him.

When he is not making innuendos or hitting on someone, Teruteru is shown to be decently friendly and relatively upbeat. He takes great pride in his cooking, insistently telling other people to call him Ultimate Chef instead of Ultimate Cook, as it 'gives off a more urban feeling'. He tries to create an image of a stylish urban person, sometimes even telling lies about his life and acting somewhat arrogant. He is ashamed to talk about his real home in the countryside, even though he loves his mother back at home greatly. He is motivated to work hard to help his sickly mother and make people he cares about happy with his food, though this original goal of his often gets clouded by his desire for fame and fortune. Similarly, he began to focus only on complex and fancy food, even though in reality he deeply loves more simple type of food like the ones his mother made. He also has a tendency to use French terms even when referring to more plain and simple type of foods, such as calling donuts "beignets, bonne femme style", in an attempt to appear more fancy. Nevertheless, he takes cooking very seriously and is angered whenever someone treats ingredients and food in a way he considers offensive. He also has a strong dislike for junk food, openly calling it "shitty".

Though he is one of the more laid-back characters at first, Teruteru turns timider when Monokuma and the Monobeasts appear. He constantly denies that the terrifying things around him are actually happening and dismisses them, while in reality, he is becoming the most afraid and paranoid member of the group.

When extremely agitated, stressed, or angry, Teruteru loses his normal speech pattern and breaks down, yelling angrily in an incomprehensible, country-like dialect, which is extremely difficult for other standard Japanese speakers to understand. In the English version, Teruteru instead switches from standard English to an accent that straddled between black vernacular and southern; while it was not difficult for players to comprehend the text as in the Japanese version, it proved quite difficult for the other students to understand him.

According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Teruteru had a few questionable aspects to him in the second game, referring to his sexual behavior, but in Danganronpa 3 those unappealing sides of him don't come out as much after he gets to know the other students. Notably, the aphrodisiacs incident wasn't caused by him, but Hiyoko.


Ultimate Cook 
True to his title Teruteru is a great cook. As he was raised in a restaurant he was taught to cook at a very young age. His cooking was very well liked by everyone around him and with the assistance of Seiko, he could create concoctions like the doping corn syrup. His cooking is loved by the students.

In other 
Teruteru's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa.

Ultimate Cook
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「料理人」	Super High School Level Cook
Français Ultime Chef Cuisinier	Ultimate Head Chef

Prior to the 
Teruteru says he was born in Nishi-Azabu district in Minato, Tokyo, and raised in southern Aoyama. This is revealed to be a lie, as he actually comes from an unnamed town in the countryside; a fact he takes great stride in denying to others. He attended Kochi Prefectural Harajuku High School, hinting that he might have lived in the Kōchi Prefecture. He also had younger siblings, whom he dislikes because they were Hope's Peak potentials being Ultimate Host and Baroque Girl.

Teruteru's family ran its own diner, but unfortunately, his mother had an illness, causing her to be frail and collapse at times. It's also implied that their diner is constantly targeted by big chains and other businesses attempting to buy it out, prompting Teruteru to even enter an unnamed competition with his skills to help stall this. He dreamed to even one day open up diners in Azabu and Aoyama, the very places he constantly claimed to have come from to his classmates. He also claims to have competed in a cooking death match for his Family diner.

Teruteru was very worried about his mother's condition and her will to keep the Hanamura business running, especially after receiving the invitation to join Hope's Peak Academy. His mother insisted that she was strong enough to handle it, allowing Teruteru to leave and attend Hope's Peak. He made a promise to his mother that he would graduate from the school and attain certain success in life, and become a great chef in order to save the Hanamura Diner when he returned. He also promised to bring his future wife back home with him.

In Hope's Peak Academy, as the Ultimate Cook, he is in charge of the school kitchens. He also worked with Seiko Kimura in various recipes such as a strength-enhancing soup and thus may have retained other compositions of her research and incorporate them into his food.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 01 - Hello Again, Hope's Peak 
Teruteru was in the kitchen until he heard Sonia Nevermind calling for him from the cafeteria. He immediately ran toward her and asked what food she wanted to order. Before he could harass Sonia with his perverted word, his homeroom teacher, Chisa Yukizome tied him up. His nosebleed run when he was tied by Chisa and Nekomaru Nidai, saying that he was happy being tied by a lady in an apron and tolerated Nekomaru's action.

After he joined the group, Chisa had Teruteru cook a roast with Mahiru Koizumi, Hiyoko Saionji, and Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu tending the fire, in hopes of drawing out Akane Owari. After spotting her, Teruteru couldn't believe that Akane smelled the grilled meat and came for it. Chisa quickly ordered Nekomaru to restrain Akane before she could reach Teruteru's cook. Later inside the school's dojo, Teruteru was struck by Chisa when he about to tease the girls.

Throughout the day, Teruteru and the others managed to retrieve most of their classmates. He and the others returned to the class and asked by Chisa to clean the classroom as she went to retrieve two remaining students. After returning to the classroom, Chisa was happy to see that Teruteru and the others had waited and that the classroom was clean. When the students once again bring up that they didn't have to go to class, so long as they have their talent, Chisa reminded them that talent isn't everything, and wanted them to build strong relationships and "hope" with each other.

Episode 02 - My Impurest Heart for 
Teruteru and half of his classmates took cover on the side of the class during Nekomaru and Akane's deadly training session that almost destroyed their classroom. When Akane about to lose, Teruteru offered her his Doping Corn Soup that he created with one of his upperclassmen, Seiko Kimura. As the result, Akane's strength increased greatly and she can even match Nekomaru's movement.

After Nekomaru and Akane's training session end, Teruteru and the rest of his friends busy cleaned and repaired the classroom. Afterwards, Chiaki offered them to play games that she bought. Chisa was surprised to hear Teruteru and Sonia's explanation about Chiaki's development.

During the break time, Teruteru and Hiyoko cooked nikujaga together and served it to their classmates and teacher. Unfortunately, Teruteru was unaware that Hiyoko stole one of his product named Sexy Sexy Soup that contained full of aphrodisiacs and used it on his nikujaga. Teruteru was drowned in lust and about to molest Hiyoko before Chiaki came and delivered him a deadly uppercut, screamed "Taylor Swift!" in the end before he took to the nurse's office to recover.

On the next day, Chisa gathered Teruteru in the class with the others, announcing that she elected Chiaki as their class representative. Teruteru agreed with her, saying that Chiaki's uppercut was a nice hit.

Episode 03 - A Farewell to All 
At the beginning of the episode, Teruteru and his classmates walked past Hajime heading toward the Main Course building.

Several days later, Teruteru was shown in the classroom, looking worried at Mahiru who cried on Hiyoko's chest after she lost a friend of her from the Reserve Course, Sato.

Episode 04 - The Melancholy, Surprise, and Disappearance of Nagito 
Teruteru along with his classmates still saddened and upset over the deaths of one of their classmates' little sister, Fuyuhiko when Chisa announced that the annual practical exam started on the next day.

Later, Teruteru was persuaded by Nagito by giving him a photo book of the infamous idol Sayaka Maizono that he found. He was very happy and willing to tell Nagito about Seiko, the upperclassmen that helped him to invent their doping soup.

At the end of the episode, Teruteru and his classmates met with Chisa who bid them farewell as she was transferred to the Reserve Course after the bombing incident involving one of her students, Nagito.

Episode 05 - The Beginning of the 
Teruteru was with his friends on Chisa's welcome back party in his classroom. He said to Chisa that one of his classmates Fuyuhiko didn't want to join until he saw how hard Chiaki worked to organize the party.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
As they are preparing to move into the new school building and classroom by collecting their belongings, Ibuki notices Peko and Fuyuhiko are like a mature couple, Teruteru begins finding a way to make the conversation more awkward than it should be until Ibuki pretends her foot accidentally slipped to send Teruteru flying across the other side of the classroom before he can continue any further.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's 
When Fuyuhiko notices that both Mikan Tsumiki and the Ultimate Imposter are missing from the classroom, Kazuichi Soda thinks that they're doing "extracurricular studies" together. Upon hearing this, Teruteru then visually describes Soda's thoughts using a donut and a banana, before Gundham Tanaka's bear bites both of their hands.

After learning about the Izuru Kamukura Project and The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy via an email sent out by Junko Enoshima, the Reserve Course students begin to riot. Teruteru is seen hugging Kazuichi out of fear as he watches this from his new classroom.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by 
Teruteru and the rest of the class are shocked to learn Nagito saw Mikan in the West District and immediately start searching for her on the school grounds.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
The class reconvenes at the school classroom as they are unable to find Mikan, Teruteru explaining that what Nagito thought was her may have been a case of mistaken identity. Chiaki reaches the classroom with an unconscious Nagito, explaining to them that Chisa is in danger, Teruteru becomes concerned by this although agrees to help. Nagito convincingly makes clear that it'll be dangerous and there is a possibility of them dying, to which Teruteru contemplates these concerns but Chiaki convinces him otherwise.

The Ultimate Imposter reveals his true identity, to Teruteru's shock along with the rest of the class although they come to accept it quickly. After leaving the Main Course building, the Reserve Course students seek to take them on in a battle to open placements on the Main Course, Teruteru and the class go on ahead, leaving Nekomaru and Gundham to fend them off.

On the way down the stairway to Junko's lair, Teruteru believes that with the underground passageway being on the school grounds, it's possible Junko and the school are in 'cahoots'.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope 
Teruteru and the class continue down the corridor after making their descent of the stairway, Mikan eventually catching up with them. Upon hearing from Mikan, who lies that Chiaki is resting her ankle in one of the nearby rooms, Kazuichi suggests that they should have left Nagito with her, feeling the effects of Nagito's weight on his back. Teruteru requests carrying Nagito, saying he falls within his 'spectrum', to Kazuichi's dismay, Teruteru begins to explain what he means, until a door is flung open, pushing Teruteru to the right. Gundham and Nekomaru appear from the dark room. Ibuki proclaims all that is left is to save Chisa, to which Teruteru and the rest of the class agree.

Mikan, now leading the group, approaches a large red door at the end of the corridor, pressing a button which opens the door, Teruteru and the rest of the class follow her inside. Once inside, Junko reveals multiple monitors showing Chiaki Nanami's Punishment, Teruteru horrified by what he is seeing, exclaims 'make it stop' but is powerless to do anything.

Once Chiaki reaches the "goal" in her execution, she opens the door. She sees Teruteru, the rest of the class, and Chisa on the other side. Once she reaches for Chisa's hand, spikes appear from under the ground and stab Chiaki everywhere on her body. As the broadcast ends, Teruteru and the class falls silent, with a patterned swirl in their eyes, they have lost all their hope and are now Ultimate Despair.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Teruteru and the rest of the class have returned to the classroom, receiving their final lesson before graduation. Chisa stated that she has been honored to be their teacher and started reading a letter she prepared. Teruteru and the rest of the class clap with gratitude.

After the speech, red lights turn on, and Chisa started to cry. The patterned swirls return in their eyes as they all make a declaration of what they will do upon graduation. Teruteru expressed he will 'feed everyone lots of nutritious food'. After bidding her class a final farewell, Chisa activated a bomb that fakes the death of Class 77-B. Teruteru and his class stand outside the school grounds as they watch Hope's Peak's destruction.

Chisa's narration later revealed Teruteru helped to infect the world with despair.

Danganronpa 
Teruteru makes an unnamed cameo, where he helps out at one of the school's many cafeterias with his being the most popular due to his top-notch cooking and creativity with food. His food, however, is noted as being so good and addictive that it feels drugged. This is most likely true, as Teruteru is known to drug people with his food at times.

It's unknown if during the events of the novel he was already a member of Ultimate Despair but, considering that the novel takes place just before the beginning of The Tragedy, is highly probable.

During the 
At some point after this, Teruteru joined the Ultimate Despair group that was founded by Junko. The members of Ultimate Despair did all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, causing despair all over the world.

After the death of Junko, the remnants of the Ultimate Despair agreed to an insane plan to have AI Junko take over their bodies, so they could resurrect their leader.

The remnants of Despair are later found by Future Foundation. Makoto Naegi plans to undo Junko's influence by putting them into the Neo World Program, but the program is taken over by AI Junko, right according to the Ultimate Despair's plan.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
As a member of Ultimate Despair, Teruteru is seen in the flashback, busy injecting poison into his foods, ready to spread and kill starving people with his deadly foods.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Prologue - Welcome to Dangan Island! Panic at the Heart-Throbbing School Trip!?
Teruteru was one of the students who did not panic when they were transported to Jabberwock Island. He, along with everyone else, went exploring after Usami dismissed them.

Hajime Hinata first runs into Teruteru at the Hotel Restaurant, where he is seen hitting on Sonia. He is one of the people who is actually looking forward to having a good time on Jabberwock Island, although he notes that the Restaurant's food is satisfactory. When Monokuma appears and takes over the Island, Teruteru denies all that is happening around him.

Chapter 1 - Destination 
Teruteru is one of the students that show up for the Ultimate Imposter's party, offering to cook for everyone in attendance. While preparing all the food, he noticed Nagito, who won the lottery to clean the old lodge, hiding a knife under the table, and confronted him. He became scared that there would definitely be a murder, so Teruteru took it upon himself to try to stop it. As a result, Teruteru ended up killing the Ultimate Imposter by accident, as he was trying to aim for Nagito underneath the floorboards with a skewer that he hides in a huge meat he cooks.

During the Class Trial, everybody all turned against Nagito as he "confessed" to the crime in order to help Teruteru. Hajime eventually deduces that it was, in fact, Teruteru who was the killer. Although he denies it at first, once cornered, Teruteru becomes extremely agitated and loses his normal speech pattern, spewing denials and insults in an incomprehensible dialect. As nobody else but Monomi could understand him, she steps in to translate his ranting into standard, understandable Japanese.

One last piece proved that Teruteru is the killer was showed by Monokuma. He ate one of the party's meat and it's revealed that Teruteru hides a skewer inside that meat. Once he is voted guilty, he seems to lose his will to fight, and reveals the truth about Nagito's actions and talks about his mother. Monokuma taunts him, and at the very end, Teruteru cries out for his mother before he is dragged by the neck to his execution.

Epilogue - The Day Before the 
Currently, Teruteru is most likely comatose, just like most of his classmates. The survivors of the Killing Game are waiting for him and the rest of their classmates to wake up.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Illusion 
Teruteru appeared in Nagito's imaginary world following his death in the Neo World Program.

During morning class Teruteru fed Grizner a large piece of meat from his skewer.

He later attended Kazuichi Soda's funeral prior to his eventual death at the hands of the World Destroyer, all of his other illusory classmates eventually meeting the same fate in order for Nagito to be woken up.

Real-
Teruteru, along with all of his other classmates, waits for Hajime to awaken Nagito from his imaginary world within the Neo World Program. Once Nagito had been woken up, Teruteru along with the rest of Class 77-B board a ship to take them to Future Foundation Headquarters in order to save mankind's last hope from the Final Killing Game, and stop Ryota from broadcasting his Hope Video to the entire world.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of 
Teruteru returned in Side: Hope alongside the rest of the Class 77-B, who had been resurrected by Izuru Kamukura although Izuru was now combined with the personality and memories of Hajime. They arrived at the island where the Future Foundation's off-shore facility was located, having left from Jabberwock Island and proceeded by rescuing Byakuya Togami and Yasuhiro Hagakure from being trapped under rubble, they then began their fight against Ryota's brainwashed rescue squad troops, including the Former Super High School Level Elite Task Force.

Venturing into the underwater facility beneath the main building, Akane commanded Teruteru to begin serving the meat he was cooking from a stove, swallowing it whole and giving her the energy to run at a very fast speed, bumping into Teruteru, causing him to spin uncontrollably. She faced off against the former Ultimate Street Performer, using Teruteru's cooked meat to defeat him.

Later, Teruteru helped convince Ryota to abandon his plan to brainwash the world. When Hajime began persuading him to join them in atonement, he happily accepted Ryota. Teruteru, Ryota, and his classmates all left the broadcasting studio together.

Shortly afterward, Teruteru and the other Former Remnants of Despair shoulder the blame for the Final Killing Game in a broadcast to the Future Foundation, presenting themselves in their despair persona and relieving the organization of any wrongdoing.

With the battle won, Teruteru and the Class 77-B return to Jabberwock Island by boat. All of them enjoying a taste of Teruteru's cooking.


Main Article: Deep Fried Teruteru

Family:
His 
Although not much about Teruteru's home life is revealed until the end of Chapter 1, it is shown that he cares a lot about his mother. It even states on his report card in the 'favorite things' section that his 'favorite thing, in this case, is his mother. In a flashback cutscene to when Teruteru first left for Hope's Peak, he showed great hesitation at leaving mother alone to run the Diner, to which she assured him that she would be fine. He confesses he wants to see his mother again, and the last thing he does is scream for his mother before he is executed.

His Brother and 
During Teruteru's second Free Time Events, he mentioned that he had a brother and sister who were known as the "Ultimate Male Escort" and the "Ultimate Female Escort". He got very irritated when thinking about them and how they only worked as escorts for the sake of money (or that is his opinion on their reason) and earn more money than him. These comments make Hajime wonder if Teruteru is worried about his siblings, or is jealous of them.

Class 77-B:
Nagito 
While Nagito tries to be respectful towards the Ultimates, it's quite clear that he dislikes Teruteru. In the beginning of the school trip, he protects the girls from him and tells him to stop when he is acting perverted, appearing annoyed and uncomfortable. He also mentions that he'll keep an eye on Teruteru because of this.

After the first murder, Nagito helped Teruteru, believing that he might have the strongest hope between the two sides. However, after this turned out to be false, he abandoned Teruteru and told him to give up.

In Danganronpa 3, during their time at Hope's Peak, Teruteru is shown to be very grateful when Nagito gave him a magazine with Sayaka on the cover. Despite this, it's later shown that Teruteru does not miss him when he is gone, just like the other students. Later, when Nagito is unconscious, Teruteru offers to carry him, stating that he's still within his strike zone (supposedly referring to the fact that he finds him attractive looking while his personality isn't that attractive).

During the ending s, when the class is on the beach, Teruteru is covered in octopuses and tries to offer one to Nagito, who appears to politely decline.

Kazuichi 
Despite having no in-game interactions, the Danganronpa 2 artbook reveals that Teruteru thinks his dress code is interesting, whether he means this sarcastically or literally is unknown.

As for their time together in high school, Kazuichi and Teruteru seem to be friends, supposedly because they both have a bit perverted personality. They are usually seen together in group events, and one time they are seen hugging each other in fear during a riot caused by Reserve Course students.

Hiyoko 
During their time at Hope's Peak Academy, Hiyoko appeared to enjoy messing with Teruteru, Teruteru appeared to be somewhat annoyed by this as shown when he tells everyone Hiyoko only helped at the end while making the nikujaga. After Teruteru figured out Hiyoko had tampered with his stew he is driven mad with lust and attempted to molest her, only stopping when Chiaki punched him. Hiyoko soon stopped teasing him after, and, according to the relationship chart, Teruteru continued to mention his "daikon" around her.

Sonia 
Sonia is a constant victim of Teruteru's flirtatious ways. He states that the reason he does so is that princesses are always sheltered therefore they are easier to trick. Nagito Komaeda tends to protect Sonia from him, telling him to stop.

Akane 
During their time on the island, Akane showed love for his dishes when he presented them to the party and, despite his lecherous personality, doesn't think badly of him (though this may be due to her already being used to men lusting for her). She was depressed after his execution, remarking the food on the island wasn't as good as his.

During their time at school, both seemed to be good friends, with her taking some of his doping syrup to improve her bout with Nekomaru. In Side: Hope, they teamed up to face off against a Future Foundation agent.

In the Bonus Mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, he mentions that when he opens his restaurant, he will give Akane a call. In the anthology, Akane proposes to Teruteru so she can eat his cooking forever with Teruteru agreeing due to her looks. Though, ironically enough, Teruteru becomes quite upset with her not savoring his dishes and her cravings for meat, as well as giving lower quality food the others give her the same praise as his own cooking. In the end, their engagement is broken off due to their personalities clashing too much.

Class 76th:
Seiko 
While the two are never seen interacting, it's known that they sometimes mixed concoctions together like the doping corn syrup. It is possible that Seiko created the drugs Teruteru sometimes uses for his food. It's unclear if they were friends, or if Seiko just helped him similarly to how she helped other people. Nevertheless, they became enemies after he joined Ultimate Despair and she joined Future Foundation.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Teruteru Hanamura
During Free Time, Hajime can choose to talk to Teruteru in order to learn more about him. If he gives Teruteru a present that he likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Teruteru will disclose something about himself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Teruteru's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants a skill that will give Hajime an advantage during Class Trial battles after he finished Teruteru's fifth Free Time Event.

1234567X
Teruteru Hanamura Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Pro wrestling	Sumo wrestling	...
Kill it with fire	Remove the mold	Throw it away
No.	Yes	I don't know.
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR2 Present 029 Passionate Glasses DR2 Present 044 Kiss Note DR2 Present 067 Kokeshi Dynamo

Becoming friends with students grants Hajime special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Fuyuhiko grants the following skills:

Tasting	Reduces an argument to three statements or less.
Effective during the Nonstop Debate and the Rebuttal Showdown.	7 SP
Island Mode 
Main article, including full dialogue and right choices: Island Mode/Teruteru Hanamura

DR2ExtraDR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Prologue:

"My name is Teruteru Hanamura. On the streets, I'm known as the Ultimate Cook... But could you guys call me the Ultimate Chef instead? It has more of a...big-city flavor to it, ya know? Mmhmhm, I hope we get along well."
"The most important thing in the world is... Nothing is more important than a cute girl."
"More importantly, are you guys hungry? Let's stop thinking about this and just eat."
Chapter 1:

"Compared to the world class dishes I make, a dish that tastes "yummy" would still be considered shit... In fact, even comparing them is out of the question! Comparing MY dishes to this lowly peasant food, how rude! I'm just saying, if you guys ate my food, you wouldn't be able to control yourself. Well, let's just say your jaw wouldn't be the only thing that drops! In fact, your panties would drop, too! Like the black thong Miss Peko is wearing, for example!"
"Mmhmhm, I may be a pervert, but I'm the kind of pervert everybody likes!"
"No matter how clean this place gets...stuff is still bound to go missing in an old building, right?"
"Well, of course you can't stop. These are the world's tastiest party dishes, after all. No matter how full you feel, you can't help but continue eating such exquisite delicacies... That is what I cook, the world's tastiest dishes!"
"Jeez...I've decided that there's no way I'll ever be able to live the crude, country bumpkin life."
"Well, it's not like I actually believe it, but...if there really is a killer out there... Ugaaah! I'll probably never be able to forgive that killer!"
"But walking down that dark hallway to the storage room is like trying to make eggs benedict without any eggs!"
"I wanted to make sure that I still have a place to call home!"
"I think I'm the one...who went crazy."
Panic Talk Action Remarks:

"I WON'T FORGIVE YOU!" (Voice: "Unforgivable!")
"Shaddup!" (Shut up)
"THAT'S IMPOSSIBLE!"
"P-PARIS HILTON!"
"NONSENSE!"
"RAAAAAGH!"
"HMPHHHHH!"
"I dunno, I dunno, I dunno!"
"Where would the weapon be!"
Chapter 5:

"******|anj63t&%&%&mama&:[+ --- what7732happenedHanamu%%raDinner)" (Teruteru's cottage post-fifth trial)

"Teruteru" (輝々) means "radiance" (repeated twice) in Japanese, while "Hanamura" (花村) means "village of flowers".
A typo in the opening movie for the PSP version of the Japanese game writes his surname as "Hanamaru" (花丸). The Vita version corrects this. "Hanamaru" (花丸) means "circle of flowers".
Despite Teruteru stating that he was born in Azabu and raised in southern Aoyama, both of which are notably upscale areas in Tokyo, when he is agitated he speaks with a heavy accent that is not part of Tokyo's standard Japanese dialect. Hiyoko notices this, and happily announces that he's a liar for it.
In the English localization, Teruteru's speaks with a heavy country accent when agitated. His accent is reminiscent of the distinctive Cajun accent of Louisiana.
Teruteru is very openly interested in both men and women, which has been confirmed in multiple scenes:
In Chapter 1 of Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, during the swimming party on the beach, Teruteru asks if anyone would like a "rub down" with suntan lotion. Nekomaru Nidai volunteers and Teruteru replies: "Rubbing lotion on a muscular man...? All right, no problem! My tastes are pretty open, you know!"
In the same chapter, when Byakuya takes away some of his cooking utensils, he cries and clings to Hajime. When Hajime tells him to get off of him, Teruteru notes he may not be "into that sort of thing" and says that's a little depressing.
In Island Mode and his Free Time Events, he constantly talks with Hajime in a very suggestive manner, wishing they would get to know each other with their bodies and asking him to come to his cottage.
While speaking with Hajime, he occasionally has a voice clip in which he states "I could gobble... you... up" in slow, flirtatious manner. His other voice clips include flirty whistling and him chuckling to himself while clearly thinking about something suggestive.
In his Island Mode ending, he wishes to take Hajime home to be his "wife" since he promised to his mother he would get married.
In the booklet included in the special ion Japanese BluRay release of Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School, Teruteru is described as: "A chef whose passion for sex matches or perhaps even exceeds his passion for food. [...] He seems to be okay with anyone ranging from small girls to older ladies, though it seems like he is also down for men as well."
Danganronpa 3 Side Despair Episode 01 Teruteru Hanamura tied up by Chisa and Nekomaru
In Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc - Episode 01, Teruteru is tied up and hung from the ceiling by Chisa Yukizome, and says "G-getting tied up by a lady in an a-apron..." but she is quickly replaced by Nekomaru shouting at him, and Teruteru continues "It's a man now? Oh! I can work with this!"
In Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc - Episode 10, Teruteru eagerly offers to carry unconscious Nagito, since he's within his "strike zone".
Teruteru's execution mimics that of Leon Kuwata from Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc. Both him and Leon were dragged off from the trial by a chain around the neck, then strapped onto a pole in a symbolic fashion.
After Chapter 1, the "X" on Teruteru's sign is shaped like the food court symbol of a fork and knife crossing each other, in reference to his Ultimate title.
Teruteru screams "AVRIL LAVIGNE!" when cornered in the Class Trial. Avril Lavigne is a Canadian singer/songwriter and actress.
During his Panic Talk Action, one of his remarks is "P-PARIS HILTON!" - referring to Paris Whitney Hilton, a female American socialite, actress, and entertainer.
In Danganronpa 3 (Despair Arc), he makes reference to Taylor Swift, a singer who has blonde hair much like Paris Hilton.
In Danganronpa 3 (Side: Hope), he screams "Justin Bieber!" as Akane runs past him. Justin Bieber is also a Canadian singer and songwriter.
They did a referance to Teruteru
Teruteru is referenced in Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls by a restaurant named Pig★Boy. The logo shows a pig dressed almost identically to Teruteru, even sporting the same hair. The restaurant itself could be a reference to Teruteru's execution, which is called Tonkatsu no Hanamura in the original Japanese release - since tonkatsu is fried pork cutlets.
Teruteru shares his English voice actor, Todd Haberkorn, with Korekiyo Shinguji.
Teruteru's Japanese voice actor, Jun Fukuyama, also voiced Tarō Kurosaki in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc.

Shirokuma originally resembled the regular Monokuma Units, but he has heavily modified himself to appear less threatening. He painted the left side of his body white and wrapped bandages around his left leg, left forearm, and the left side of his head - the latter serves to mostly conceal the jagged red left eye common to all Monokuma Units. His body is somewhat worn and covered in scratches, due to his work with the Adult Resistance.

Shirokuma has two small eyelashes on his right eye and a noticeable blush (covered by two small bandages) on his right cheek. Coupled with his very feminine vocal timbre, he's sometimes mistaken for a female. He often carries a pink flower.

If forced into combat, Shirokuma removes the bandages on his head to expose his left eye. He also displays the ability to extend claws from his hands, similar to the standard Monokuma Unit.


Shirokuma is a pacifist and he thinks that adults and kids should live together in harmony. He is very considerate and has a friendly aura surrounding himーhe can even say things very similar to Usami such as "violence is a big no-no". He wants to have the power to protect others, but he feels he isn't strong enough. He is a bit shy and all kind of fighting and mean words make him distressed. However, he can be surprisingly forceful at times.

He claims to have a good eye for judging character, as well as the ability to tell the date and time of someone's first kiss just by looking at them, among other things. He also considers the abilities and limitations of his allies, taking breaks despite technically not needing to (being a machine) in order to give Komaru time to rest and regain herself.

Though he appears very pure, Shirokuma really likes pretty girls and he is implied to be a bit perverted, just like the other Monokumas. He is also revealed to be a coward at times, as he really doesn't like fighting and finds the other Monokumas very scary, but he can be very brave for the sake of others.

Shirokuma can also be a bit philosophical at times and he has lots of knowledge about different topics, such as Murphy's law, despite claiming to have existed only for a short amount of time.

Despite his peaceful demeanor, Toko Fukawa found Shirokuma very suspicious and her opinion about him never changed. In the end, her suspicions are proven when Shirokuma is revealed to be one half of Alter Ego Junko plotting to spread despair and drag Towa City into an endless spiral of war and revenge. Shirokuma's friendly personality, in fact, his whole personality, is just Junko's acting. Still, it's heavily implied that he has only some of Junko's personality and needs Kurokuma to be whole.


Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
According to Shirokuma, he "woke up" on the same day when the Monokuma robots began their attack. He had a strong desire to help people, which he claimed was due to his sophisticated AI allowing him to make his own decisions. Deciding that doing good deeds made him feel good, he painted one side of himself white and covered his left eye with a bandage to avoid frightening any humans he came across.

As chaos engulfed Towa City, Shirokuma began rescuing adults who were being attacked by the forces of the Warriors of Hope. He made a secret base underground, where he brought all the adults he could find, eventually forming the Resistance. Because of his work in saving the adults, Shirokuma became very well-liked by the members of the Resistance, with many considering him an "idol". He is also the only one allowed to leave the secret base.

Chapter 1 - Crying for Love in 
Shirokuma's first appearance was at the last second of chapter 1, foreshadowed as the person who had been following Komaru and Toko's journey from the hospital to the underground station.

Chapter 2 - Legend of the 
Shirokuma was first seen being attacked by Monokuma Units, only to be unwittingly saved by Komaru Naegi. Komaru immediately panics after seeing him, but Shirokuma convinced her that he meant no harm (though Toko Fukawa still found him suspicious). Toko told Komaru to not be fooled by his cuteness but was eventually fooled herself when he said that he wanted to be friends with many pretty ladies. Shirokuma also confessed that he can tell the date and time of someone's first kiss, making Toko further fooled by him. Shirokuma wanted to help both of them and leading them to the base so they could be saved. Once Toko calmed down from her "heated" imagination to uncover those "fraudulent career women's virginity", Shirokuma asked them why Komaru and Toko were in the city. Komaru answered that they had no place to go, so Shirokuma offered them a safe place to hide. Toko didn't trust Shirokuma, thinking he wanted to kidnap them. Shirokuma said that that the safe place is a secret base underground where adults are living in hiding. Komaru thought it a good idea to go there. Toko once again left with no other options, the girls follow Shirokuma to the adults' secret base.

After traveling for a while in the underground subway station, the group decided to take a short break. Komaru asked Shirokuma why he wanted to save them, and he answered that he "just wants to save people." Komaru was amazed by Shirokuma's dedication and decided to keep relying on him as an ally, but Toko stayed suspicious. Shirokuma then led them down a hole with a ladder to the Towa City Sewers, where the secret base was.

Exploring the sewer, the group eventually found the ladder to the secret base. Shirokuma told the girls to follow him up the ladder, with Toko forcing Komaru to go first because she might die if Komaru saw her panties. After Komaru and Toko escorted him through the sewers to the Resistance base, Shirokuma invited the girls to the conference room where he introduced the girls to the leader, Haiji Towa, before giving them instructions on what they should do next.

After Toko and Haiji started fighting about the Future Foundation. After the fight ended between Toko and Haiji, Shirokuma asked Komaru and Toko if Future Foundation would really come and save the adults, to which they replied that it's impossible to reach them. Shirokuma then gave the girls a wireless laptop developed by Togami Group that can send audio and video, noting that it wasn't available to the public aside from groups like the police and Future Foundation, and the girls could use it if they got around the jamming radio waves emitted from Towa Hills be climbing to the top of a building called Towa Tower. Komaru was so happy because she could finally see a ray of hope thanks to Shirokuma, hugged and surprised the white bear.

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's 
Shirokuma appeared once again after Komaru and Toko returned to the Resistance's base. He welcomed Toko and Komaru back after coming back from the Towa Tower. He then told both of them to join the conversation with Haiji and the rest. Once again, Toko and Haiji fought and Shirokuma tried to stop them. Later the Resistance was being attacked by Monokuma Units, he begged Komaru and Toko for help in order to save the people inside the base that are being attacked by Monokuma Units. In response to Shirokuma's plea, Komaru and Toko successfully expelled the large group of Monokumas from the base.

Chapter 4 - The Way We 
Once again the Resistance's base was being attacked by Monokuma Units. Shirokuma the appeared and approached Komaru and Toko as he begged them to defeated the Monokumas.

Like they did previous times, Komaru and Toko managed to get rid of the initial wave of Monokumas, but then Shirokuma told them the Monokumas were actually coming from a hole from the back of the base and he needed Komaru and Toko to block it. It turned out Shirokuma's body was packed with high explosives, but his self-destruct button was damaged during the battle so he couldn't self-destruct on his own. Shirokuma begged Komaru to shoot him so he could explode and block the hole.

As the three reached the hole, Shirokuma forced Komaru to shot him even he braved himself to attack Komaru so she could stop him by shooting him. Shirokuma thanking Komaru with teary eyes before he exploded.

Shirokuma the appeared as one of the adults brought Shirokuma's remaining head, surprisingly congratulating Komaru and Toko. He said that his AI chip is on the head so he would still continue to live.

Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair 
Shirokuma was seen once again with Hiroko carrying his head as they talk to Komaru and Toko about their current situation.

In the 5th chapter, it is hinted that Shirokuma was collaborating with Kurokuma in order to force the adults into battle. He later takes control of the Big Bang Monokuma to cause further havoc, attacking Komaru, Toko, Monaca, and Haiji in Towa Tower in an attempt to decapitate the leadership of both sides at once. However, Komaru and Toko manage to destroy Big Bang Monokuma, ejecting Shirokuma's head from the mecha in the resulting explosion.

Epilogue - The Changing World We 
In the epilogue, Shirokuma's head was seen in a wheelbarrow alongside Kurokuma's similarly-damaged head. As the robots argued over the result of the war, they were both revealed to be parts of an AI patterned on Junko Enoshima, pitting adults and children against each other in their agenda to spread despair. Both robots were then destroyed by Izuru as he salvaged the AI from their hard drives.


Haiji Towa 
Both of them are best friends and the founders of The Resistance. Haiji and Shirokuma have been working together in saving the adults from the Warriors of Hope and travel Towa City. Shirokuma always tries to help Haiji whenever he is stressed or angry and tries to calm him down. Haiji always thanks Shirokuma for everything that he has done to him and for always helping him whenever he needs him.

Shirokuma later betrayed Haiji and took control of Big Bang Monokuma to end him and the rest of the people.

Komaru 
Komaru first finds Shirokuma after saving him from other Monokuma Units. Shirokuma seems to like Komaru and even sacrifices himself in order to help Komaru get into the Warriors of Hope's Secret Base. This is all implied to be part of the plan to create a "successor" to Junko Enoshima - when Komaru appears to have rejected her "destiny", Shirokuma takes control of the Big Bang Monokuma to attack her.

Adults 
Shirokuma was the one who rescued all the Adults and essentially created the Resistance, giving him unquestionable status as an idol. The Adults respect Shirokuma more than anyone else in the Resistance's base and are always happy to see Shirokuma. Shirokuma seems to care about the adults a lot and always tries to protect them whenever they are in danger from the Warriors of Hope or Monokuma Units. The adults compliment him and they always talk nicely to him.

Because of their gratitude, the adults never question Shirokuma's motives, having complete trust in him and getting offended whenever someone compares him to the other Monokumas. In the end, it's revealed that Shirokuma (being part of Alter Ego Junko) just manipulated them and kept them alive for his own goals, and considers them all idiots. The adults' reaction to this truth is never seen, but they're all shown yelling in anger and disappointment after the Big Bang Monokuma in Shirokuma's control got destroyed.

Toko 
Toko first finds Shirokuma after saving him from other Monokuma Units. When she first saw Shirokuma she thought he was just like all the other Monokumas. Toko doesn't seem to trust Shirokuma very much due to him being a Monokuma Unit. Shirokuma is very kind to her and always tries to be gentle and help her. Despite being very nice to her, she is very mean to Shirokuma calling him by names and treating him like all the other Monokumas. She gets carried away whenever Shirokuma says something that she is interested about.


Despite having no in-game interactions, at the end it appears that both him and Kurokuma were partners, both manipulating and concluding that adults and children are both equally stupid.

Together, Shirokuma and Kurokuma form Alter Ego Junko Enoshima and in reality, they're both just a result of her acting.

Due to the way they're related, Kurokuma mentions that they're kind of like brothers, and he calls Shirokuma his "li'l bro".

Hiroko Hagakure 
Although they don't talk to each other that much, both of them are members of the Resistance and work together to save people from Towa City. In Chapter 5, Hiroko is seen carrying Shirokuma's head.


"Ah, don't be scared! It's okay, I'm not a particularly suspicious bear!
"Ehehe... I'm a white bear, so I'd like to be called "Shirokuma." I'm a nice bear! The kind of bear who would give my opponent the corner in Othello..."
"I-I have an AI inside me! I'm different than the other Monokumas! I can think and reason. I won't run amok like those other bears. I'm your ally. Look, I'm all white, see?"
"We can be friends. I wanna be friends with as many pretty ladies as possible."
"I have a good eye for judging character. For example, just by looking at your face, I can guess the time and date of your first kiss!"
"Fragile girls wandering around a dangerous place like this is a big no-no!"
"You went through a lot up till now, so you have trouble trusting people. I understand. But the world is also full of amazing people! You don't have to be so pessimistic!"
"I just want to save people, that's all. There's no way I should be the only one keeping his fur white during hard times like this."
"The only thing I can say is that I have an AI with a personality. A special thought process. I don't know who put this AI in me, or for what purpose... But it's the same with humans, right? They don't know where they came from and why, right? Knowing that made me feel like... I never want to be lost! I have a heart, and I'll follow it!"
"The kids call it "revolution." Call it whatever name you please, in the end, there's still a mountain of bodies. But by calling it a revolution, they justify it in their minds, and become even more brutal." (about the Warriors of Hope)
"Having a great mind does not always make a great person. Or child. A child's talent can easily be corrupted into something evil. Those five are the worst example." (about the Warriors of Hope)
"What makes it more horrifying is that they're still kids. They kill without guilt or mercy. You remember what you were like when you were children? How many cruel things you did? Insane because they're too pure. Uncontrollable because they're too innocent. Children with more potential than adults, with such cruel natures... How horrifying it would be if they were truly out of control."
"To tell you the truth, I'm jealous of you two... I wish I had the power to protect people..."
"This is Armageddon! And we gotta band together and destroy that Kid asteroid!"
"I'm scared too... But it will be alright. It feels strange, but thinking about saving everyone...gives me courage. Maybe that's not saying much, coming from an AI inside a Monokuma... But it's the truth! And if it's for everyone's lives, then I'm not scared at all!"
"No matter how scared you are, there are times that you *have* to fight. There are times you *need* to stand up. Times you *can't* be afraid of death."
"The day I awoke was the first day of the violence, when the Monokumas began their attack. It was right here, just above us... I saw Monokumas attacking adults, and I thought... I have to do something! I painted my body white, and covered my red eye, and found a spot the children don't know about. I made the secret base there. Every time I found an adult, I brought them back there to hide. But I'm pure white inside, just like this body..."

The word "Shirokuma" (シロクマ or 白熊), aside from literally meaning "white bear", is also the Japanese word for "polar bear".
Shirokuma will assist Komaru in certain sections of the game, bumping into Monokuma Units to stall them temporarily.
Along with Kurokuma, Shirokuma is the first Monokuma Unit to have a profile in the game.
Shirokuma liked world peace and flower meadows, and he disliked fighting and verbal abuse.
Shirokuma and Kurokuma seem to be much taller than the original Monokuma for unknown reasons.
Shirokuma is the first character to carry a flower with him, the second one being Monophanie.
In both the English and Japanese dubs, Shirokuma and Kurokuma are voiced by Junko Enoshima's voice actors, which hints at their true identity as Alter Ego Junko.
Amusingly, when you use the Megaphone Hacking Gun's "Dance" Truth Bullet on Shirokuma, he performs a dance that Monokuma uses in the anime adaptation's opening.
Shirokuma is referenced by name in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan. The player can use the voice changer to imitate "a bear that's not around" in an attempt to make Monokid stop bullying Monodam, but they don't recognize the voice nor take it seriously.

 [show] v • e
GAME CHARACTERS
Categories:
Characters Danganronpa Another Episode Characters Antagonists Artificial Intelligence Monokuma Units Robots Male Inactive Destroyed Killing Game Survivors Maintenance: Article Revamp Add category
Languages:
Español  Français  Polski  Русский
Recent Wiki Activity
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Monokuma
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Leon Kuwata
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Celestia Ludenberg
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Chiaki Nanami
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago








Search

LogicalShark
1
START A WIKI
 ダンガンロンパ
ダンガンロンパ
1,164
PAGES
ADD
COMMUNITY
FORUM
in:
Characters, Danganronpa Another Episode Characters, Antagonists, and 8 more
Kurokuma
English

 
SHARE
Kurokuma	Gallery	Sprites	
Kurokuma
3D Model Sprite
 3D Model
Name
Aliases & Titles
Characteristics
Gender
Male Male
Height
100 cm (JP)
3'3" (ENG)
Likes
• Good Vibes
• Dope things
Dislikes
• Wack things
• Shit rhymes
Family
Killing Game Status
Personal Status
Debuts
Portrayals

"	Black bear? White bear? Hell naw, I'm my own bear!

— Danganronpa Another Episode
"
Kurokuma (クロクマ Kurokuma) is a stuffed robotic bear that appears as an ally to Warriors of Hope in Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls.

Contents[hide]
Appearance
Personality
History
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls
Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's Battlefield
Chapter 4 - The Way We Live
Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl
Epilogue - The Changing World We Made
Relationships
Monaca Towa
Shirokuma
Nagisa Shingetsu
The Servant
Quotes
Battle Quotes
Trivia
Navigation

Kurokuma's body is half dark-grey and half black split equally down the center. It seems his right half was originally white like other Monokumas, and he simply painted over it.

Kurokuma wears a dark-grey fedora hat with a red and white feather on it. He has gold teeth and he smokes a cigar. He also wears an eye-patch with a heart decal over the right eye, a black tie, and a golden chain with a padlock and star-shaped charm. It's been mentioned that he wears these accessories to be more "hip-hop."


Kurokuma has a gangster-like, obscene personality. He swears often and has an impatient, immature nature. He is very immoral and has a rather dark, vulgar sense of humor. Some of his jokes are references and more clever, while others are simply immature or just bizarre.

He is also very brash and disrespectful, even towards people he just met. He isn't above cheap insults or provoking. He appears to enjoy annoying Nagisa Shingetsu the most, most likely because of the boy's strict personality. He makes fun of the Servant by implying that he's homosexual in a mocking fashion and he calls Toko Fukawa "emo chick" and insults her for having glasses. He is also quite perverted and disrespectful towards pretty girls. He has little respect for others, with Monaca Towa being a possible exception. He seems to feel admiration and pride for her evil nature.

He is incredibly noisy and loves to talk, to the point where other characters find him very annoying. At times he speaks extremely fast, too fast to understand him. He claims that talking is his whole purpose in life, and he would die if he stayed silent for too long. Monaca can order Kurokuma to go into "silent mode", which the Warriors of Hope prefer his constant talking.

Kurokuma is very arrogant, and is the only one who finds himself even remotely funny. He believes he's a very talented rapper and entertainer, which is obviously not the case. His thought process often leads to tangents about his "dream life", such as having legions of fans and being so famous that Jimi Hendrix attends his concerts.

Interestingly, Kurokuma is never seen fighting by himself, which is something he technically should be able to do and even Shirokuma does at one point. When he is left on the open by himself during a boss fight, he just flails around helplessly and keeps talking, like claiming that you shouldn't shoot him because he was just about to donate to charity.

In the end, Kurokuma is revealed to be a half of Junko Enoshima's AI and thus his personality is only an act. Still, it's heavily implied that he has only some of Junko's personality and needs Shirokuma to be whole.


Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Kurokuma's exact origin is unclear, but he supposedly began to work as the Advisor of the Warriors of Hope after Junko's death. The children do not seem to be aware of his true identity as Junko's AI and have little respect for him.

At first, Kurokuma gave the children ideas how to kill adults and specifically worked together with Monaca, giving her the idea of creating the Second Junko Enoshima. However, as the Warriors developed their own skills and plans, they soon grew tired of the overly talkative bear. Kurokuma was then mostly kept in silent mode and the children talked to him only rarely, with Kotoko even suggesting that they could just get rid of him.

Similar to Shirokuma, Kurokuma has heavily changed his original appearance, to be more unique and "hip-hop".

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's Battlefield 
Kurokuma first appears during an advising meeting with Kotoko Utsugi, Nagisa, and Monaca, discussing their plan to wipe out the resistance. He offers no useful advice, while at the same time irritating all of the characters present.

Kurokuma reappears at the end of the chapter, discussing with Monaca about the plan to create a Second Junko Enoshima and how he's looking forward to the outcome.

Chapter 4 - The Way We Live 
When Nagisa returns Servant to the base and attempts to interrogate him, Kurokuma intervenes and attempts to antagonize Nagisa to make him angrier. This is short-lived, however, as an infuriated Nagisa kicks him away. He watches as Monaca throws Nagisa into despair, commenting on how vicious she is.

Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl 
Kurokuma is with Monaca as Big Bang Monokuma begins its destruction of all the Monokuma units in the city, watching the event on a television. As Servant prepares to leave, he antagonizes him one last time, along with Monaca, with both of them getting ready to start the plan Kurokuma had.

Kurokuma greets Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa in the center room of the Warriors of Hope base and gives them clues as to where they can find Monaca. When Monaca enters the room, and he sees she can stand, he was surprised and falls out of his chair.

After revealing that her legs were not disabled as previously thought, Monaca and Kurokuma summoned their battle robot, which appeared to be a combination of the robots used by the other Warriors of Hope. Komaru and Toko were able to defeat them, leading to Kurokuma having his head sent flying off his body, and gets ejected from the building from breaking the window, and falling down to the ground while screaming.

Epilogue - The Changing World We 
In the epilogue, it is revealed that both Kurokuma and Shirokuma are part of the Alter Ego Junko, pitting the adults and children of Towa City against each other to spread war and despair. Both robots are then destroyed by Izuru to salvage their hard-drives for their AI.


Monaca Towa 
Monaca and Kurokuma worked together to create The Successor to Junko Enoshima, which was originally Kurokuma's idea.

Kurokuma at least seems to have a little respect for her, sometimes acting proud of her evil nature. However, Monaca is often annoyed by his talking and sometimes forces him into silent mode.

Monaca does not fully trust Kurokuma, as he doesn't know that she is faking her disability.

Monaca and Kurokuma are also one of the final boss fights with the giant robot they created.


Kurokuma considers Shirokuma to be like a brother, and calls him his "li'l bro".

Despite having no in-game interactions, at the end it appears that both Kurokuma and Shirokuma were partners, both manipulating and concluding that adults and children are both equally stupid.

Together, Kurokuma and Shirokuma form Alter Ego Junko Enoshima and in reality, they're both just a result of her acting.

Nagisa 
Kurokuma was Nagisa's advisor. Nagisa respects Kurokuma the least, beating him up the most out of the Warriors of Hope. Kurokuma also teases Nagisa the most and refers to him as "Naggy-sa" ("Shingetsu-boy" in the Japanese version, which is most likely a play on the insult OB or old boy, which is a slang term for retirees).

The 
Kurokuma dislikes the Servant, considering him unimportant in his and Monaca's plans. He also thinks his views on hope are "fucking stupid" and very contradictory.

He enjoys when something bad happens to him, like when he's being punished by the Warriors of Hope. He also mocks him by asking about his supposed homosexuality.

While he has a very calm personality, even the Servant seems a bit annoyed by Kurokuma and sometimes chooses to ignore him.


"So anyway, the hell are we talkin' about? You sayin' something about making adults into sausages? Gonna pull out the organs, grind 'em up, make 'em into yummy, cruelty-free cuisine? And then, ya gather 'em up, sell 'em in a supermarket, and become an urban legend? Huh? ...Now that sounds awesome. I wanna see that! Hahahaha!"
"...And then, Hendrix himself came to my live concert three times! In my dreams, anyway. What, you didn't think I'd still be talkin'? Well guess what? I'm stiiill talkin'!"
"Hey by the way, when is that meat party with the pool of blood in Hell gonna start? This is gonna be a once in a century event! I'd go even if I had to pawn off my wife for a ticket!"
"Hahaha! Massacre! Banzaaai! M to the A to the motherfuckin' "ssacre"! Oh yeah! Massacre, what an awesome word! It's downright magical! It has a great ring to it, a beat to it, the beatbox beating of my heart! So yeah anyway, Hendrix was like--"
"Hey! You guys breakin' up or something? Why do that when there's plenty of other shit to break!? Like cookies, glassware, the window at that girl you like's house... More than plenty, dammit!"
"Oh, what!? Is this it!? You're finally gonna come out of the closet!?" (to Nagito Komaeda)
"So to prove your little point about hope or whatevs, you brought on the despair, huh? Well, that's just fuckin' stupid! It's like goin' to the desert to drink some tasty water!"
"Hey hey hey! So you finally decide to show up, huh? So slow! This isn't a manga, it shouldn't take a whole year for a day to pass!"
"Hey, fuck off, Four Eyes! I wouldn't expect some pasty four-eyed emo chick to understand my charm. I get no respect."
"Yo, I'm so baller, if a professional musician ever came to my concert, they'd retire the next day! I'd make 'em choke on the Haterade! And you're gonna be chokin' too when I'm done with ya!"
"Didja say Shirokuma? So ya know him, huh? How's Li'l Bro doin'!? Well, he's *like* a brother! We bearfolk stick together, y'know!?"
Battle 
"Who's a bad boy!? Who's a good boy!? Who's a...normal boy!?"
"Wait, don't shoot! I was just about to go donate to charity!"
"Black bear? White bear? Hell naw, I'm my *own* bear!"
"If there's a Nobel Prize for Monokumas, I got it in the bag!"

The name "Kurokuma" (クロクマ or 黒熊) means "black bear" (not only literally, but also the specific species of bear of this name).
Kurokuma likes "dope" things and "good vibes," and hates "whack" things and Crappy Rhymers, referring to American slang.
Shirokuma and Kurokuma seem to be much taller than the original Monokuma for unknown reasons.
Along with Shirokuma, Kurokuma is the first Monokuma Unit to have a profile in the game.
Kurokuma and Shirokuma are both voiced by Junko Enoshima's voice actors, in both the English and Japanese dubs, which hints at their true identity as Alter Ego Junko.
Kurokuma's English voice actress, Erin Fitzgerald also voices Genocide Jack and Seiko Kimura.

 [show] v • e
GAME CHARACTERS
Categories:
Characters Danganronpa Another Episode Characters Antagonists Artificial Intelligence Monokuma Units Robots Destroyed Killing Game Survivors Inactive Maintenance: Article Revamp Male Add category
Languages:
Español  Français  Polski  Русский
Recent Wiki Activity
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Monokuma
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Leon Kuwata
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Celestia Ludenberg
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Chiaki Nanami
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago








Search

LogicalShark
1
START A WIKI
 ダンガンロンパ
ダンガンロンパ
1,164
PAGES
ADD
COMMUNITY
FORUM
in:
Characters, Danganronpa 1 Characters, Danganronpa Another Episode Characters, and 11 more
Komaru Naegi
English

 
SHARE
Komaru Naegi	Gallery	Sprites	
Komaru Naegi
DRAE 3D Model DR3
 DRAE
Name
Characteristics
Gender
Female Female
Height
•163 cm 
•5' 4"
Weight
49 kg (108 lbs)
Birth Date
♊ May 31
Chest Size
84 cm (33")
Blood Type
A
Likes
• Girl's Manga
• Whatever's trending
Dislikes
• Lightning
• Rainy season
Family
Killing Game Status
Personal Status
Debuts
Portrayals

"	...There's no way I could imitate him. And no way I'd want to. I am not my brother. Makoto is Makoto...and I am me.

— Danganronpa Another Episode
"
Komaru Naegi (苗木 こまる Naegi Komaru), is one of the main protagonists and a participant of Demon Hunting featured in Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls due to her being the closest person to her older brother Makoto Naegi. Because she is considered a "Demon" by the Warriors of Hope, she is given the name Slowpokemaru (ドンコマル).

Contents[hide]
Appearance
Personality
History
Prior to the Tragedy
During the Tragedy
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Chapter 1 - To Survive
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls
Prologue - The Warriors of Hope
Chapter 1 - Crying for Love in Hell
Chapter 2 - Legend of the Revolution
Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's Battlefield
Chapter 4 - The Way We Live
Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl
Epilogue - The Changing World We Made
Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc
Episode 06 - No Man is an island
Episode 07 - Ultra Despair Girls
Episode 08 - Who Killed Cock Robin
Episode 12 - It is Always Darkest
Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair
Execution
Relationships
Makoto Naegi
Her Parents
Toko Fukawa
Shirokuma
Hiroko Hagakure
Haiji Towa
Yuta Asahina
Aoi Asahina
Quotes
 Trivia
References
Navigation

She has short, dark brown hair and desaturated green eyes. She also sports an ahoge, similar to that of her brother's, which developed as she grew. Overall, she is described as very plain-looking and "normal", which seems to be the same way people describe her brother.

When she was in the motivational video with her parents in the first game and its corresponding anime adaption, her hair appeared neater in a classic bob cut, and she did not possess an ahoge. The uniform she wears in this video consists of a white button-up shirt, a brown blazer, a brown skirt, and a red ribbon.

In Danganronpa Another Episode, she is revealed to be wearing the St. Tomoe Girls' Academy uniform, which is a sailor fuku with a white blouse, a red necktie, and a turquoise collar, line trim, and skirt. There's a school crest on the bottom right of the back of the collar, necktie, shirt pocket and the outer sides of socks. She continues to wear this outfit in Danganronpa 3 along with brown fingerless gloves and a belt with a small pouch.


Prior to the Tragedy, Komaru had a cheerful and optimistic personality, somewhat similar to her brother. She loved Makoto, telling her brother to do his best while enrolled at Hope's Peak Academy.

As of Danganronpa Another Episode, Komaru began as a somewhat hypersensitive and quite cowardly character. She wavers between hope and despair as a result of her forced imprisonment. She doesn't want to have strong hope, because she believes it will be lost eventually, leading to worse despair. She has low self-esteem, considering herself boring, ordinary and weak. After being encouraged by Toko Fukawa, she gained a desire to at least try to escape again. While she finds escaping hard and fighting even harder, she is willing to fight off hordes of Monokuma Unit robots as she tries to survive the world's current catastrophe and find her missing family.

Komaru shows some childish traits, such as being naive, reliant, and easily excitable. She also has an 'unusual' kind of pride, as she gets really worked up from the puzzles of the Monokuma Kids and brags towards the kids when she solves them. She is also very gullible, which is revealed when Toko says certain things that are obviously false, and Komaru easily believes them to be true. She is rather innocent as well and doesn't seem to have much interest in romance nor sexual thingsーas a great contrast to Toko, she never seems to get flustered by handsome guys and just treats them like any other people. Though, she once tried to claim she has lots of experience with dating and sex because she was afraid Toko might make fun of her. It's been stated that in the past some creepy guys have taken interest in her, supposedly because of her gullibleness, and it's been shown that she isn't very good at noticing their intentions.

While a kind person, Komaru sometimes has a hard time relating to certain people and subjects, because she herself has lived a very ordinary life. For example, at first she has a very poor understanding of Toko's disorder and assumes it has something to do with two people's souls switching in a car accident, supposedly because she has only heard about the subject from highly unrealistic manga. However, she herself has a few very unusual traits as well, including her strange favorite foods and her apparent ability to sense ghosts. However, she doesn't seem to think these traits are anything unusual.

Despite sometimes giving up too easily, there are other times which Komaru shows how stubborn and determined she can be. However, she has a weakness in complicated subjects such as basic computer science, but she does have moments where she is intuitive.

In Future Arc Komaru is shown to be more confident in herself and is now quite skilled at fighting off Monokumas. Although still a bit childish at times, she can also be serious when needed.


Prior to the 
Komaru lived a normal life with her parents and brother, though she states she could see ghosts ever since she was a kid.They also had a dog during her childhood. She sometimes didn't get along with her brother, but the two watched TV together, as well as shared thoughts on manga they both read.

In a typical day with Komaru and her family, her mother would always watch the same talk show at lunchtime, and her dad wouldn't shave his beard on Saturday when he didn't have to work.

She had many friends in school, including a girl called Chieko.

During the 
Komaru was one of the countless people who learned of the mutual killings committed by the high school students in Hope's Peak Academy when it was too late to stop it. She, like everyone else, had witnessed the Tragedy that plummeted the entire world into despair.

During that event, she lost seven of her classmates during one of the many accidents resulting from the Tragedy and her friend Chieko disappeared. She kept telling herself that everything would be alright, but realized how hopeless it was when a group of unknown men attacked her house, separated her from her parents, and confined her in an apartment complex in Towa City when she was still a middle schooler.

Because she had no communication or connections to the outside world (besides the food given to her everyday by her kidnappers), she had no idea about the mutual killing that her brother was involved in and the existence of Monokuma.

She describes her life as being completely confined in the room. Her morning routine consisted of banging on the door and 'defying' her captors.

The kidnappers, Ultimate Despair, planned to make her and the other captives to kill each other. This would then be shown to the students of 78th Class and act as a motive to convince the students to kill each other. However, this did not happen because Junko Enoshima was executed and the Mutual Killing Game ended before the motive could be established. As a result, Komaru and the other captives remained imprisoned in Towa City for one and a half years.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy 
Chapter 1 - To 
During the Mutual Killing incident of 78th Class, Monokuma gave Makoto a "motivational video" showing the Naegi family offering encouragement to him - Komaru was seen cheering her brother on. After that, the video glitched out before showing the destroyed living room and no sign of Makoto's family. The videos were made to motivate the students into killing each other.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Prologue - The Warriors of Hope 
One and a half years after Komaru's imprisonment, the Warriors of Hope invaded Towa City with their army of Monokuma Units and Monokuma Kids.

Komaru heard a banging on the door during her breakfast. She rushed up to the door and begged for help, only to be attacked by a Monokuma Unit. She hurried away, only to realize that the building was aflame. Komaru soon ran toward the elevators while being chased by the Monokuma. She thudded heavily on the door of an elevator, and the elevator subsequently opened to reveal Byakuya Togami and some Future Foundation agents. Byakuya, using his Megaphone Hacking Gun, destroyed the Monokuma that was chasing her. Byakuya explained that they were assigned to rescue Captives. However, before the agents are able to escort Komaru, several Monokuma units suddenly appeared, eliminating all of the agents save for Byakuya, who then lends Komaru his spare Hacking Gun and commands her to flee and fight against the Monokumas using it. As she fled into the elevator, Byakuya held off the Monokumas. The elevator then closed, leaving Byakuya's fate unknown at that point.

After escaping from the apartment, Komaru arrived in the streets, where she witnessed Monokuma Units slaughtering innocent people. She then fled to the family restaurant across from the apartment, which Byakuya suggested her to go to because an agent of the Future Foundation was standing by there. Komaru was initially dumbfounded when the scene inside the restaurant appeared oddly normal considering the current circumstances. She anxiously directed the clerk to call the police, but it was too late as Monokuma Units soon broke into the building, almost instantly killing all of the people inside, including the clerk. Then an evacuation order broadcast appeared on the restaurant's TVs, albeit much too late to save the restaurant's patrons and staff.

Komaru attempted to hide in the restaurant, but she soon became aware that if she hid, it wouldn't be long before she was found and killed by Monokumas. Plucking up her courage, she begun to fight Monokumas using the Hacking Gun she received from Byakuya. Although she was still confused about the usage of the weapon, she still managed to get rid of all Monokumas inside the restaurant.

Afterwards, Komaru heard the sound of a girl laughing coming from the television, drawing her attention. She was surprised when she looked up at the TV, as she found the newscaster's corpse was being toyed with by a group of children. The children introduce themselves as the Warriors of Hope, who have but one goal: turning Towa City into the children's paradise, one without adults. This startled Komaru, who had to take quite a while to take it all in.

After the deranged broadcast is finished, Komaru decided to look for the Future Foundation man that Byakuya told her about, shortly finding the man to be injured on the backdoor of the restaurant. The agent mentioned Komaru as the Captive, advising her to escape from the backdoor straight ahead to the park, where the Future Foundation helicopter waited for them. Worried about the wounded agent, Komaru asked him to join her, but the agent refused when some Monokumas catch sight of them. Feeling intense guilt, she left the man to fight single-handedly with Monokumas.

Soon afterwards, she arrived at the park, meeting with four members of the Future Foundation next to their helicopter. After Komaru introduced herself, the agents confirmed her as the Captive. Komaru, still worried about the agent in the family restaurant, requested one of the agents to look after him. The rest of the agents then explained to Komaru the Future Foundation, the Tragedy, Towa City, and the Towa Group. After being told to leave immediately, Komaru became afraid, as all she wanted was to be reunited with her family.

One of the agents wanted to answer Komaru's question about her family's condition, but they were interrupted when they heard a singing child's voice. Komaru was astonished to find the singing voice came from a Monokuma kid, a child wearing a Monokuma mask, who brought the corpse of one of the agents. Komaru became the only person to safely arrive inside the helicopter. However, a Monokuma had already sabotaged the helicopter, causing it to subsequently crash.

Somehow, Komaru survived the crash and was taken by the Servant to the Warriors of Hope's base. The Servant then returned Komaru's Hacking Gun after he analyzed and weakened it for the sake of "game balance." After that, the Servant warned her not to mention the gun to the other Warriors of Hope and left her. Komaru completed a test and reached the main hall where the Warriors of Hope waited.

Each of the Warriors of Hope introduced themselves. Komaru asked them to stop their manslaughter since she discovered the fact that they, with the mage Monaca's power, control the Monokumas. But Nagisa Shingetsu replied that they won't stop until their paradise, the children's paradise, is completed.

The Warriors of Hope then tell Komaru that they'll commence a game including Komaru, known as "Demon Hunting", where the Warriors of Hope release a Demon (an adult) into Towa City as a Target. Then the Warriors of Hope would compete to see who could hunt it down first. Suddenly from Komaru's back, the Servant appeared and snapped a Monokuma Bracelet on her wrist, and again reminded her to keep the fact that he gave her back the Hacking Gun a secret. Not long after this, the Warriors of Hope opened a trap door, plummeting Komaru through it by parachute back down into Towa City.

Chapter 1 - Crying for Love in Hell 
After falling out of the Warriors of Hope's airship, Komaru landed on the rooftop of a building, which is shortly revealed to be a hospital. She saw Monokumas coming after her and cowered, hoping someone would help her. Suddenly, the murderous fiend known as Genocide Jack appeared and swiftly disposed of the Monokumas. Jack then asked Komaru whether the person she just saved is "Komaru Naegi" or not.

After Komaru confirmed this, a Monokuma Unit appeared from every side of the building. Jack then decided to bring Komaru to a safe place and asked her if she met Byakuya, as she could smell his scent from Komaru's Hacking Gun. When Jack begun to count down the time before she hurts Komaru for failing to answer, she suddenly sneezed and switched to Toko.

Toko, who can now manage Jack, said that she is an ally and will help Komaru to escape from the Monokuma units. After they get rid of the Monokumas on the rooftop, Toko properly introduced herself to Komaru, explaining to her that she has two split personalities. Komaru learned that Byakuya has been captured by the Warriors of Hope and that Toko decided to remain in Towa City to rescue him.

After they managed to escape from the hospital, Komaru asked Toko some questions which she reluctantly answers. Komaru explained to Toko that her only plan is to escape from the city because if she stays, she will relentlessly be attacked by the Monokuma Units. However, she changes her plan to sticking together with Toko to search for and save Byakuya. Komaru, who was very thankful that Toko allowed her to be with her, hugged her, surprising Toko.

Komaru spotted a bridge that they could use to escape from the city, so the girls decided to head for Towa Bridge, where they then met Yuta Asahina, Aoi Asahina's younger brother. He introduced himself, and Toko recognized his last name. He also wrote Komaru's name on his palm 3 times, saying he believes it to be the best way to remember someone's name.

They hoped to cross the bridge in order to escape, but soon found that half of the bridge had been destroyed. The remaining half of the bridge was then suddenly demolished by the Monokuma Kids using dynamite planted on the bridge. The three were able to escape in time. Yuta then attempted to swim out of the city, but was interrupted by Komaru, who asked him if it was really far to the other shore, and Toko added that maybe there were some strange creatures living in the sea due to the pollution. Yuta, however, answered confidently that the only thing that he needed was to be careful, even though it would be troublesome. Toko tried to stop him, but Yuta had already made up his mind.

While swimming, his bracelet was activated (as a result of being too far from Towa City) and exploded, killing Yuta instantly. Devastated by what had happened to Yuta, Komaru burst into tears, saying it's impossible to escape. But Toko encouraged the despairing Komaru to at least die trying to find a way out instead of waiting to die (she added quietly that those were words quoted from Makoto). The pair then tried to use the underground subway station to escape by returning to the place where they left the hotel first.

Upon their arriving at the underground subway station, the gate was reinforced by a shutter. Komaru started to panic, so Toko said that the shutter was locked by someone and that there must be a clue left somewhere. After searching, they found a key from the corpse of a station worker who was killed by the Monokuma Kids.

When Komaru took the key, a Monokuma Kid suddenly hit her and stole it. Komaru and Toko then chased the Monokuma Kid until they arrived at a construction site. Inside, the Monokuma Kid climbed the building because he knew that Komaru and Toko couldn't climb. Komaru suggested they go around the building entrances and trap the Monokuma Kid in a dead end. Arriving at the dead end, they found a challenge letter from the Monokuma Kid to come to the hospital, the place where Komaru and Toko's journey began. After they manage to beat the Monokuma Kid, who ran away crying, they take the key from the safe and return from the hospital to the underground subway station.

Komaru and Toko realized that they had been trapped in the center of a colosseum full of a cheerful audience of Monokuma Kids and the leader of the Warriors of Hope, the 'Hero' Masaru Daimon appeared. He boastfully claimed that he will be the one to banish all of the "demons" from Towa City to make a paradise for the children. After saying this, he opened a trapdoor beneath him, revealing the corpses of countless adults. Masaru stated that those are all the remains of the adults that he has killed. 

As the Monokuma Kids continued their applause, Masaru began to feel fear and tried to calm himself by beating his left hands. Komaru who see this tried to tell him to stop, but Masaru didn't listen to her and begin to fight her after he was satisfied.

Following a fierce battle, the girls overcame Masaru and his robot, which resulted in the Monokuma Kids executing him as his punishment for losing. Komaru was horrified at what they did to him, but Toko replied that his execution was too simple (since she has already witnessed even more horrific executions during the killing school life). The two left, only to find that another subway station had opened. The two then decided to enter, aiming to find an egress from the town. Someone, however, had already been watching them without their knowing.

Chapter 2 - Legend of the 
Komaru and Toko entered the opened subway station only to find an unmoving train. Feeling down for a moment, Komaru finally decided to walk along the railway. As Komaru and Toko advanced, an earthquake struck, causing the ceiling to collapse. Toko, falling unconscious after a rock hit her, switched to Genocide Jack who quickly dashed back to the entrance followed by Komaru. At the very last second Komaru and Jack managed to escape the destroyed tunnel.

After Jack sneezed and switched to Toko again, Komaru suddenly got depressed and wondered if she could really escape from Towa City. Just before Toko could rally Komaru again as she had after Yuta's death, two Monokuma Kids approached them with a TV connected to the Warriors of Hope's headquarters and the 'priest' Jataro Kemuri appeared on the screen.

Jataro introduced himself to the girls before he explained that Komaru, the one with the wristband, can't leave the city because she is one of the Warriors of Hope's targets. He also explained that there's a limit within the game. Jataro also explained that the wristband is made to explode when the wearer goes outside the town without permission.

Before Jataro left, in hoping it would make them hate him, he presented his masterpiece which turned out as a very frightening diorama that he created. As the television shut off, Komaru cried. Toko once again rallied Komaru to not lost her hope to survive, saying that she was with Komaru to fight beside her and for her to rely on.

Komaru and Toko later decided to go the way they came first. On the surface, they were surprised to see hundreds of Monokumas and Monokuma Kids dancing. For their safety, they retreated back down to the subway. Toko, forgetting that she is afraid of the dark, suggested to go back to the underground, to which Komaru agreed, thinking that Toko was showing her how to go forward despite being scared. Annoyed, Toko eventually had no choice and the two of them traveled back to the underground.

Exploring the district deeper, Komaru and Toko then saw someone underneath a white sheet being kicked by Monokumas, crying and begging them to stop. After Komaru destroyed the Monokumas, she went to uncover the white sheet to check if that "someone" was okay. Komaru was surprised after discovering that the someone was a white Monokuma.

Just when Komaru and Toko speculated what and who he was, he then started to speak, surprising the two girls. Even though the bear confessed that he's not a suspicious bear, Toko ordered Komaru to shoot him. He was shocked and told them that he's different than the other Monokumas because he has an AI inside him, introducing himself as Shirokuma. Toko told Komaru to not be fooled by his cuteness, but was eventually fooled herself when he said that he wanted be friends with many pretty ladies. Shirokuma also confessed that he can tell the date and time of someone's first kiss, making Toko further fooled by him.

Once Toko calmed down from her "heated" imagination to uncover those "fraudulent career women's virginity", Shirokuma asked them why Komaru and Toko were in the city. Komaru answered that they had no place to go, so Shirokuma offered them a safe place to hide. Toko didn't trust Shirokuma, thinking he wanted to kidnap them. Shirokuma said that that the safe place is a secret base underground where adults are living in hiding. Komaru thought it a good idea to go there. Toko once again left with no other options, the girls follow Shirokuma to the adults' secret base.

After traveling for a while in the underground subway station, the group decided to take a short break. Komaru asked Shirokuma why he wanted to save them, and he answered that he "just wants to save people." Komaru was amazed by Shirokuma's dedication and decided to keep relying on him as an ally, but Toko stayed suspicious. Shirokuma then led them down a hole with a ladder to the Towa City Sewers, where the secret base was.

Exploring the sewer, the group eventually found the ladder to the secret base. Shirokuma told the girls to follow him up the ladder, with Toko forcing Komaru to go first because she might die if Komaru saw her panties.

Komaru and Toko were surprised to see many adults in the secret base, which was an old warehouse used to store water tanks that the kids didn't know existed. Komaru questioned why there were so many trailers inside the base and Shirokuma answered that he brought them there to make it a little easier for everyone to live. He then let them meet with some of the other adults around the base before speaking with them further.

Komaru and Toko chatted with several adults until finally they met with a woman a bit different from the others. Komaru was surprised after the woman showed them her Monokuma wristband. The woman was glad to finally meet an "ally" and explained that there are plenty of 'Hit List' Targets hiding throughout the city. If possible, she wanted to save them and bring them to the secret base. She explained that nobody but Shirokuma was allowed to go outside unless they could sneak out, commenting that she has adults sneak outside to bring her cigarettes. She introduced herself as Hiroko Hagakure. Toko, who knew that the women was related to one of her classmates, wondered if she was his older sister or maybe the mother. Hiroko quickly nicknamed the two girls "Koko" and "Fufu."

Shirokuma invited Komaru and Toko to the conference room. Inside, he saw no signs of the leader of the Resistance. Shirokuma wanted introduce him to Komaru and Toko. While they waited, Komaru and Toko read several notebooks inside the room's lockers. Then suddenly the door opened and Haiji Towa, the leader of the Resistance, showed up. Komaru stepped in before Toko could ask him nonsense questions and instead asked Haiji if he was related to the Towa Group.

Komaru became depressed when she suddenly remembered her missing parents and asked Haiji if he knew how to escape the city. He told her that all of the roads to outside the city are completely blocked and Komaru's wristband would explode if she tried to escape. Komaru desperately asked if she could somehow get rid of the Monokuma wristband, but neither Haiji nor Shirokuma knew how. Haiji advised that staying put and keeping quiet is the best move. Toko questioned why the Resistance doesn't try to fight the kids, but Haiji insisted that it would be suicide if they tried. Toko called him a coward, but he claimed that he's only waiting for the opportunity to strike back. When Komaru felt that Toko's harshness had gone too far, Toko confessed that she was also speaking to Komaru and criticized her for only making excuses rather than fighting back.

When Toko revealed herself to be a member of Future Foundation, Haiji angrily ordered Komaru and Toko to get out of the secret base and refused to cooperate with them.

Toko and Komaru decided to leave the secret base, but as they did they saw adults screaming while they watched a monitor. Shirokuma diverted their attention, saying it would be best if they didn't watch, and offered them to stay the night as it wouldn't be safe for the girls to go out at dark. He then led them to a makeshift room, which was actually a prison cell.

Shirokuma asked Komaru and Toko if Future Foundation would really come and save the adults, to which they replied that it's impossible to reach them. Shirokuma then gave the girls a wireless laptop developed by Togami Group that can send audio and video, noting that it wasn't available to the public aside from groups like the police and Future Foundation, and the girls could use it if they got around the jamming radio waves emitted from Towa Hills be climbing to the top of a building called Towa Tower. Toko asked why Shirokuma didn't send other adults for the job if he already knew all this, but he explained they're the only ones he trusts can fight the Monokumas and safely reach Towa Tower. Komaru insisted on going, as she wanted to keep trying to survive and move forward. Toko reluctantly agreed and the two decided to get some rest for the night before heading out the next day. Komaru, who could finally see a ray of hope thanks to Shirokuma, hugged and surprised the white bear.

The next morning, feeling refreshed after a night's sleep, the two were seen off by Shirokuma. Now above ground, Komaru and Toko made their way along the riverside shopping district and finally arrived in front of Towa Tower. As they tried going inside, Jataro appeared and ordered a large group of Monokumas to attack them from every direction. Once they defeated them, Toko cautioned Komaru that they should be wary of a second ambush by Jataro and that the whole situation could be a setup by Shirokuma.

Once inside, the two tried using the elevator, but it wouldn't open without a key card. On the fourth floor they met a man with glasses who confessed that while hiding from the kids he was trying to program a way on his laptop to remove his wristband. Upon Komaru showing she wore the same wristband, the man regrettably informed her that until they are removed neither of them can leave the city; Komaru denied this, saying they would contact Future Foundation from atop Towa Tower using their laptop's wireless communication. The man understood and offered to try programming around the elevator's card key function. Even though he didn't expect them to want his help as they can't trust someone they just met, the girls gladly accepted.

At the elevator, the man had barely begun hacking around the security system when Junk Monokumas appeared, forcing Komaru and Toko to cover him. Once finished, he thanked Komaru and Toko, saying that because of them he finally started to see a ray of hope and that given a good connection Future Foundation would surely save them. Unfortunately, when the elevator opened, a Beast Monokuma emerged and attacked the man. After the girls defeated the Beast Monokumas, the man apologized for not accompanying them further but assured them that they would be fine. On his dying breath, he told Komaru and Toko that he has a child around their age and his only regret was not being able to see her one last time. Komaru then found the man's handbook nearby, and inside discovered a picture of him and his child; she hoped that the child was all right, while Toko was silent due to knowing the child's fate and recommended they move forward.

The two then entered the elevator, but just before Toko wanted to talk with Komaru about Future Foundation, the elevator suddenly stopped. The girls forced the elevator's door open to find themselves in a dungeon where Jataro and the audience of Monokuma Kids waited for them. Toko asked Jataro why he wore his mask and told him to take it off, but Jataro refused, telling them that "if they look at his face, their eyeballs are gonna rot off" and asked aloud why else his mother forced him to wear the mask everyday unless he was ugly. Komaru replied angrily that the kids' doing is unforgivable, no matter their reasons. The Monokuma Kids then boo at Jataro, making him more ecstatic due to being hated by even them. He summoned his robot, saying the only one who liked him was "Big Sis Junko." Komaru and Toko defeat Jataro's Priest robot, which destroys itself with a misfired final homing bomb shot, causing the Momokuma Kids to pull off Jataro's mask and 'punish' him.

Feeling no remorse for Jataro, Komaru told Toko to go with her. Toko tried to warn Komaru about Future Foundation one final time but she forgot what she was going to say, instead proceeding to enter the code on the laptop so Komaru can speak with Future Foundation. It seemed unable to connect, but just as Toko said they should give up, Makoto Naegi from Future Foundation 14th Division appeared on the screen.

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's 
Relieved to see her brother safe, Komaru asked about their parents, but Makoto didn't know their whereabouts either. He calmed the depressed Komaru, asking where she was, and this in turn reminded her to ask why Makoto answered the communication. Makoto explained that he joined the Future Foundation and also reveals that Toko went to rescue Byakuya without orders from Future Foundation. Komaru realized that Makoto and Toko already knew each other and wondered why Toko didn't tell her, to which Makoto responded "that's Toko for you." Toko then told Makoto that Byakuya had been captured by the kids, which led Makoto to explain that he, Toko, and Byakuya survived after being trapped inside Hope's Peak Academy with their classmates and were forced to kill each other. The mastermind broadcasted the Killing Game so she could show the world the students of Hope's Peak Academy, the symbols of hope, falling to despair and death, thus furthering The Tragedy. The survivors resolved to join Future Foundation and fight against the Remnants of Despair, who were trying to spread despair to the entire world.

Toko suddenly cried after remembering the suffering of The Tragedy, while Komaru commented that she had no idea any of that happened due to her imprisonment. Makoto and Komaru told the other that they have changed, which they both denied, but ultimately Makoto apologized for Komaru's imprisonment, explaining that she and other people close to the Hope's Peak Academy students were abducted and used as motivation to incite the Killing Game. Fortunately the mastermind was defeated before that motive was seen through, although Komaru was still imprisoned long after that, most likely due to the the Remnants of Despair trying to succeed the mastermind's will. Future Foundation was in the dark about where the captives were being held, but a few days prior, they received an anonymous tip that captives from the Killing Game were being held in a certain apartment in Towa City. This was the reason Byakuya and the others agents saved Komaru, but the plan was ultimately scrapped leading to Byakuya's capture; Toko said that someone must have set up Future Foundation using both the tip and the captives being hunted by the Warriors of Hope as a trap.

Komaru begged for Makoto to remove her wristband and save her, but Toko interjected, saying that she would refuse to let this happen as it would put Master Byakuya in danger. She went as far as threatening to kill Komaru, but by this point, the wireless connection had cut off. Having found the girls, the Monokuma Kids shuttered the windows and plunged the top floor into pure darkness. Luckily a Monokuma Kid dropped a glow stick and tracked paint across the floor, leading Komaru and Toko to an emergency staircase. This was a trap, however, as the door exploded and briefly knocked the girls unconscious. Once they both awakened, Komaru shot a Bomber Monokuma, destroying a cracked window allowing them to escape to Towa Tower's second floor via ladder. They then cleared a handful more of Monokuma Kid challenges before finally exiting Towa Tower. Once outside, Komaru asked Toko whether she was serious about killing her, to which Toko responded that she was certainly willing to kill a friend if it meant Byakuya's safety. This led to a short-term rift in the twos' friendship but they ultimately returned to the adults' secret base together, with Toko tailing Komaru for her own "reason."

Upon their arrival at the secret base, the girls were greeted by adults giving them the cold shoulder. Shirokuma then appeared and brought them to the conference room to speak with Haiji, who brought up a plan to reason with the kids, which was immediately refused by the other adults. Komaru tried to support his idea but Toko reminded them that the children had no mercy whatsoever. In response, Haiji further insisted to lie in wait for a better opportunity to strike. Toko once again accused Haiji of being a weak leader, but Komaru sided with him, arguing that Toko did not understand the feelings of the weak.

Before the situation escalated further, an adult broke in the conference room and announced that Monokumas had found their base and were already massacring adults. In response to Shirokuma's plea, Komaru and Toko successfuly expelled the large group of Monokumas from the base. Despite their efforts, however, Haiji had the two girls imprisoned as he believed they led the Monokumas back to the base to begin with.

While held in a prison cell, Komaru cried tears of regret for causing the deaths of so many adults. Without warning, the 'Fighter' Kotoko Utsugi broke into the prison cell, telling Komaru that she originally wanted to hunt her but changed her mind and would let her go because Komaru was "adorbs." This was a trick, however, as when Komaru turned her back Kotoko shot her with her Denture Launcher, leaving her temporarily paralyzed.

Komaru then woke up to find herself fastened to a 'torture' device; Kotoko attempted to use the device's many tentacle hands to grope Komaru and steal her 'virginity' so she could endure the consequences of being a "cute girl." This plan was cut short, however, when Genocide Jack appeared and defeated Kotoko, and Komaru was rescued. The train then crashed into Kotoko's dungeon. While speaking to Kotoko, Toko used the Fighter's trigger word "gentle," causing her to lose her composure and call on her robot to fight the two girls. Upon the robot's defeat, the Monokuma Kids attempted to 'punish' Kotoko for losing, but Genocide Jack was instead able to save her for interrogation purposes.

Suddenly Nagisa appeared and requested that Komaru and Toko leave the city. Already prepared to persuade Monaca, Nagisa insisted upon letting them escape in order for the Warriors of Hope's Demon Hunting game to progress smoothly without further interruptions.

Chapter 4 - The Way We 
Nagisa resorted to begging Komaru and Toko, and removed Komaru's wristband to show his sincerity. He also offered to personally guide them to a secret passageway out of the city. Despite originally wanting to escape, Komaru remained silent and yet went along with Nagisa's request for the time being.

On the road leading to the secret passageway, Nagisa, Komaru and Toko were ambushed by Monokumas and Monokuma Kids, shocking Nagisa as the Monokumas were not supposed to attack him. Toko guessed that the Warriors of Hope already discovered his "betrayal." As they made their way to the shrine entrance, the three encountered a pile of bodies at the corner of the road, prompting Nagisa to explain that the Warriors of Hope attacked the adults out of fear for them. He went on to tell Komaru and Toko that his father used him as a guinea pig in an experiment to see how far a child could be pushed before they reach breaking point, resulting in Nagisa's trauma. This led him to join the other Warriors of Hope in attempting suicide, but they were stopped by Junko Enoshima who instead abducted and encouraged them to fight back against the adults. They agreed, rebelling and murdering their parents first, then moved on to start "Operation Children's Paradise". Despite their unstoppable advance, Junko died during the events of the first game. Monaca, however, didn't despair and supported her friends to keep moving forward.

Komaru, Toko, and Nagisa finally arrived at a shrine. Nagisa revealed the secret passageway and ordered Komaru to left. But the Servant came in before Komaru could left. His reason to came was to persuaded Komaru to stayed at the city. He told Nagisa that he is a traitor due to his behaviour choosing to build paradise over the Demon's Hunting game, making Nagisa ran away.

The Servant rather disappointed with Toko because she broke her deal with him to escorted Komaru to the Warriors of Hope's main base and traded her with Byakuya. The Servant explained that their first encounter on the hospital rooftop was not a coincidence meeting. Toko was told by the Servant that Komaru was going to landing on the hospital rooftop.

The Servant was the one who set up all of Komaru and Toko's journey from the very beginning and the reason why he did so was because Makoto's doing. He defeated Junko, the person that the Servant trully hated and he wasn't there to witnessed Junko's death.

Komaru became so flustered and started to crying when Toko admitted that she was deceiving Komaru. She blamed on Komaru for trusting her. Toko didn't have much choice but to take Komaru with brute force as she switched to Jack and attacked Komaru until she lost consciousness. However, Komaru could saw that Toko was only acting so she could left the city and left Toko behind. Toko admitted it and forced Komaru to leave.

The Servant approached them, telling if Komaru escaped the city, the hostage's safety couldn't be guaranteed. He sprayed powder to Toko so she could sneezed and switched to Jack in order to kill Komaru. But the Servant didn't expect what happen next, he didn't know that both Toko and Jack not only share knowledge but also emotions. Jack's insting told her to killed the Servant so she cut his thigh. Just before Jack could kill the Servant, Komaru stopped her, vowing to help Toko and remained stay at the city.

The Servant later told them that he had a partner who planned to escort Komaru to the Warriors of Hope's main base, but that he didn't really know his main objective.

In order to release Byakuya, they have to stop the Warriors of Hope's rioting. Komaru suggested that they should have Shirokuma and Haiji to supported them. After the Servant directed them to the fastest way to reach the Resistance secret base, Komaru and Toko started their journey again.

Upon arriving at the subway station, Komaru and Toko destructing and collapsing an area, using the railway as ladder to go down to the sewer. The two girls kept up their pace as they could heard adults screaming from the secret base.

Komaru and Toko witnessed the adults massacred by Monokumas that ambushed the secret base. Shirokuma approached them and begged them to defeated the Monokumas.

Like they did previous times, Komaru and Toko managed to get rid of the initial wave of Monokumas, but then Shirokuma told them the Monokumas were actually coming from a hole from the back of the base and he needed Komaru and Toko to block it. It turned out Shirokuma's body was packed with high explosives, but his self-destruct button was damaged during the battle so he couldn't self-destruct on his own. Shirokuma begged Komaru to shoot him so he could explode and block the hole.

As the three reached the hole, Shirokuma forced Komaru to shot him even he braved himself to attack Komaru so she could stop him by shooting him. Shirokuma thanking Komaru with teary eyes before he exploded.

Komaru and Toko woke up after they lost consciousness due to the explosion. Two adults approaching them, telling that the hole was already blocked thanks to Shirokuma sacrifice. Haiji step in and willing to acknowledge that Komaru and Toko's efforts proved that they were not spies. The adults reported to Haiji that they were on verge of death from the Monokuma attack. Komaru, who gained courage and confidence after witnessing Shirokuma's sacrifice, stepped up to the top of the radio truck and surprised herself by delivering a rallying speech that worked up the adults.

Some of the adults later professed that they were inspired by Komaru's speech. One of them brought Shirokuma's remaining head, surprisingly congratulating Komaru and Toko. He said that his AI chip is on the head so he would still continue to live. Haiji who already prepared everything told Komaru and Toko to go to a certain place where his "trump card" was hidden, by motorbike.

One the trio arrived at that "certain place", they rode an hidden elevator down to the hidden place, which is Towa Group's secret factory that is restricted to top executives only. Haiji admitted hesitating about going to the secret hideout initially because they were actually using Monokumas to guard the secret factory. The control office could not be contacted since the Tragedy broke out, and Haiji thought that since the Monokumas inside had had their control functions broken, they could attack Haiji (which also indirectly meant he would rather Toko and Komaru take the heat for him).

After fighting through numerous traps and laser-trip alarms by working around the Monokumas and the dead Towa Group personnel, the trio made it to the bottom level where the trump card was hidden.

As it turned out, this trump card was actually a giant robot named Big Bang Monokuma, the secret weapon built by Towa Group to defend the city. Toko freaked out, asking why Towa Group were producing Monokumas in their secret factory. Haiji explained that the Monokumas they made were initially introduced as helper robots, with plans on other functionalities to be installed on them. This explained the large variety of Monokumas the girls have encountered.

During their conversation, Nagisa's robot abruptly broke in in an attempt to destroy the Big Bang Monokuma. Eventually, Komaru and Toko were able to damaged Nagisa's robot heavily, making its parts bending one by one until the left arm fell and apparently crushed Nagisa to death.

With Nagisa out of the way, Haiji finally activated Big Bang Monokuma, hell-bent on painting the town red with it.

Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl 
After successfully activating the Big Bang Monokuma, Komaru and Toko were faced with a brand-new situation: the stress of the continuing chaos had driven the adults into a murderous fervor, inflamed further by Haiji and the presence of the humongous Monokuma, which was able to, for once, beat back the Monokumas that had been incessantly harassing the adults. The unabated hatred of the children among the adults caused both girls to become scared; Komaru in particular became frightened at the chaos she had indirectly caused through her speech in the underground bunker. It was then that Shirokuma, who had insisted that Hiroko bring his still-functioning head to Komaru, suggested to Komaru and Toko to invade Towa Hills while the Big Bang Monokuma continued causing chaos; he reasoned that the Big Bang Monokuma would keep the regular Monokumas busy enough such that Towa Hills would be vulnerable.

Agreeing to the plan, the girls fought their way to Towa Hills, becoming the first members of the Resistance to enter the building. While making their way through the building, they discovered several areas were blocked off by replicas of the mecha used by the Warriors of Hope. While searching for a way past the mechas, it quickly became clear to the girls that parts of Towa Hills had been converted into rooms for the Warriors of Hope, several of which revealed information about the brainwashed nature of the Monokuma Kids, causing considerable concern in both girls.

Soon after, the girls were faced with the prospect of becoming stuck in their mission because the only lift available to them for access required some form of identification. Haiji then showed up behind them, accidentally spooking them before he revealed that the only way to access the top of Towa Hills was retinal access granted by Tokuichi Towa's eyes. The girls learned from him that, rather than missing as he had previously stated, he was actually murdered by the Monokumas controlled by the Monokuma kids. However, since his head remained, his retinas remained intact and so retinal access would still be possible just by using his severed head. When the two girls arrived later at his office, they were scared stiff, but Komaru willed herself to carry his severed head in a tote bag, despite her fears.

Shortly after the lift access was granted, it became clear that Komaru had become too mentally affected by the severed head, eventually succumbing for a short while to hallucinations - which she thought was the spirit of Tokuichi possessing her body. Only with Toko's interference with a made-up chant was Komaru able to get rid of her hallucinations.

Komaru and Toko once again encountered Kotoko after they saved her from the Beast Monokumas who surrounded her. Kotoko confessed that she felt betrayed by Monaca who said that she didn't care about the paradise they were building from the very beginning. To proved that she was not accomplice to Monaca anymore, Kotoko gave Komaru and Toko information regarding the room where Byakuya was held, as well as the Monokuma controller room. Kotoko advised them to confront Monaca and get the key to the hostage's room while she left to get the controller.

Komaru and Toko finally arrived at the torture room. Haiji who also searching for this room explained that the torture room was a room where the kids set about torturing the relatives of all the hiding adults in the secret base and throwing their bodies on the room next door. Toko wondered how the kids could have known. They soon left Haiji alone inside the torture room.

As they gained further access into the various rooms across Towa Hills, the truth behind the riots in Towa City began to slowly see the light of day as the girls collected disparate pieces of evidence that strongly demonstrated various aspects of the Warriors of Hope's reasoning. They also found Monaca's room atop a high ledge only accessible by a ladder - Toko was greatly disturbed by the pictures of Junko Enoshima covering the walls and ceiling, but Komaru found herself wondering about something she couldn't quite place.

Finally, Komaru, Toko, and Haiji reached the Warriors of Hope's airship atop Towa Hills. Kurokuma told them that Monaca was sleeping in one of three rooms on the wall; to confront her, the Resistance had to choose the correct door. After a moment's thought, Komaru finally realized what had previously bothered her about Monaca's room; it was in a place that should have been impossible for the wheelchair-bound girl to reach. As such, she chose to open the door at the top of a ladder, prompting Monaca to emerge and reveal that she had full use of her legs after all.

After a short confrontation between Haiji and Monaca, the latter called on Kurokuma to summon their battle robot, which appeared to be a combination of the robots used by the other Warriors of Hope. Komaru and Toko were able to defeat them, leading to Kurokuma having his head sent flying off his body, through the window, and falling down to the ground. Seemingly defeated, Monaca gave Komaru her Monokuma controller, explaining that destroying the controller would shut the entire army down.

However, Komaru was hesitant to break the controller, realizing that something wasn't right. Her distress increased as Haiji began pressuring her to destroy the controller, reminding Komaru that it was her words that had inspired the adult Resistance to fight back against the Warriors of Hope. To make matters worse, Kotoko suddenly appeared, warning Komaru not to break the controller - if she did, it would kill the Monokuma Kids by detonating their helmets. As Haiji, Kotoko, and Monaca argued, Komaru was left paralyzed by indecision, especially when she realized that the adults had no compunctions about letting the brainwashed Monokuma Kids die to end the war. When Monaca showed a video of Komaru's parents dead in a torture room, Komaru fell into complete despair, deciding to break the controller and be done with the madness. Monaca gleefully revealed that her true goal was to turn Komaru into "Junko Enoshima II", driving her to despair by forcing her to choose between the tormented-but-bloodthirsty adults and the brainwashed children.

Suddenly, Toko took the controller from Komaru to prevent her from breaking it. Monaca questioned why she did that, saying it's her duty to Byakuya and the Future Foundation to eliminate all despair (referring to the Monokumas). Toko agreed, but added that she also doesn't want to let despair spread to Komaru, the Monokuma Kids, or anywhere else. Haiji then got angry at her for refusing to destroy the controller to save the adults, even if it means killing all the kids (since they were the ones trying to kill them). It was then that Kotoko attacked Haiji in order to help Toko, but suddenly Big Bang Monokuma began attacking the ship. Monaca announced that it is being controlled by someone (being Shirokuma) to try and kill them all,. In panic, Haiji, Kotoko, and Toko (who dragged the despaired Komaru with her) escaped the crumbling room. Monaca, however, remained at the room and smiled insanely as the Big Bang Monokuma attacked her.

Later on, Toko slapped the despairing Komaru out of her stupor, and asked her whom she wanted to save, the adults or the children. In a burst of tears and a sudden clarity of mind, Komaru answered that she wanted to save both. Then, the Big Bang Monokuma approached them. Komaru then wiped her tears and with Toko, confidently battled the giant robot, eventually taking it down after a protracted, lengthy battle. Upon defeating it, the Big Bang Monokuma's head blasted off and ended up landing back on the body upside down. Shirokuma's head was then seen being ejected out of Big Bang Monokuma's evil red eye before the giant robot collapsed.

Epilogue - The Changing World We 
During the Epilogue, Komaru told Toko that she decided to stay at the city. Toko became furious, complaining why she's staying despite wanting to leave so much before. Komaru first said that she finally gained confidence in herself after she made her first decision by herself on protecting both the adults and the children. Komaru then said that she's staying because if she left with Byakuya and Toko, the Future Foundation will find out about the dark secret revolving around the Towa Corporation, which will lead to the Remnants of Despair gathering at Towa City, and ending in yet another war.

So Komaru decided to stay as a hostage so Byakuya and Toko can convince the Future Foundation to not attempt anything on the city. Toko then said that she decided to stay as well because she was her friend and the two of them barely cover as a hostage for Byakuya. Komaru asked about Toko's desire to be with Byakuya. Toko then replied that no matter how far they are, their feelings for each other will remain the same. Byakuya, who was locked in a nearby room, called them and said that Toko was right, since he will remain to have no feelings for Toko, much to Toko's shock.

Later on, Byakuya showed a video of Komaru to Makoto through the computer. The video showed Komaru explaining to her brother her reasons for not leaving the city. She said she will be fine as long as she has Byakuya's hacking gun and Toko. She said that she and Toko will wait for them until Makoto and Byakuya finish off the Remnants of Despair. She then added that when she went to the torture room where Monaca's video showed her dead parents were, she found that there was no sign of her parents. She claimed that its possible that their parents were still alive somewhere, and she would cling to that belief.

After the s, Komaru is chasing after Toko on a bright, sunny day in Towa City.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 06 - No Man is an island 
Komaru is trying to force Toko to take a bath when they get a call from Byakuya, who presumably told them about Monaca's Miaya Gekkogahara in the Final Killing Game that involved Makoto and the other Future Foundation heads. Komaru got her Megaphone Hacking Gun ready as Toko grabbed her taser.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair 
Komaru and Toko went to the road filled with Monokumas after Byakuya tasked them to head out and search for Monaca's hideout. She contacted Nagisa, former leader of the Warriors of Hope now surviving Towa City with the other three members of Warriors of Hope previously thought dead. Nagisa told her the location of Monaca's hideout, and requested that Komaru and Toko not be too hard on Monaka, since she had been a friend.

Komaru and Toko were able to fight through the hordes leading up to the hideout. However, once they entered the building and stepped into a large room, they were almost immediately trapped by an impossibly huge amount of robots and Monokuma units, far more than they had previously encountered. Just when the situation began to seem hopeless, Monaca quite willingly threw in the towel; she declared that she was done with despair, and self-destructed all the robots threatening the two girls to prove her point.

Later, Komaru and Toko found Monaca inside a van with Monokuma livery, and asked if she was the mastermind of the Final Killing Game. Monaca only told both of them that while she did not know who the real mastermind was, she knew that a survivor from the Killing School Life will die because of Makoto.

As Monaca launched to the space after she decided to abandon her position as Junko Enoshima II, Komaru and Jack hold on to the van's door. Komaru convinced Jack that it was useless to force Monaca to answer the truth and eventually fell from the van. Komaru shot some of Monokuma units with LINK bullet and managed to land safely. She was glad that the two of them were okay. Deep down, Komaru believed that Monaca is a smart girl and will return to the earth someday.

Komaru later took control of Miaya and through her computer screen, contacted her brother and told him of what she learned from Monaca.

Episode 08 - Who Killed Cock Robin 
Makoto and Komaru continue to discuss Monaca's revelations. Makoto pointed out how Komaru had grown more mature although she wanted to change the subject, requesting he come and get her when the mess he's in is over. The transmission ended abruptly before Komaru and Makoto can say anymore.

Episode 12 - It is Always Darkest 
Komaru and Toko are seen watching Ryota Mitarai's hope brainwashing video on their laptop back at their hotel room. However, as this scene was accompanied by a prior discussion of possible consequences, it is possible this scene is merely hypothetical.

Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Several months after the Final Killing Game, Makoto became the principal of a newly built Hope's Peak Academy and is working alongside Kyoko. Aoi and Toko both helped move boxes of materials while Komaru went around offering each of them a drink.

Execution 
Main article: Helicopter Crash Episode


Family:
Makoto 
Komaru is very close to her older brother, Makoto, and is shown to love him very much. In Killing Among Loved Ones, it showed Komaru and her parents cheering her brother on when he succeeds to enroll in Hope's Peak Academy, showing how supportive she is of him. They also have a similarity as siblings as they both have the same ahoge. According to Komaru herself, the two watch TV together, as well as share thoughts on manga they share with each other. She's also mentioned that they did argue quite a bit which is rather common in siblings.

Komaru was separated from Makoto when the Tragedy began. When imprisoned, Komaru thought of her brother many times, especially when things got bad. After seeing him after such a long time, Komaru was relieved to see him alive and well. She thinks now that her brother has grown and become more reliable. Komaru decided to wait for Makoto to pick her up in Towa City after his battle has ended.

However, Komaru worries about him many times while fighting in Towa City, and refuses to let anyone or anything hurt Makoto, which is shown when she goes after Monaca upon hearing that she may be after her brother. When she contacts Makoto to warn him that someone would die because of him, Komaru encourages her brother, telling him that she would still be waiting for him, so he must survive.

After the battle ended, Makoto supposedly reunites with his sister (although this is not shown on screen), who assists him and his fellow survivors in rebuilding Hope's Peak Academy.

Her 
Before the Tragedy, Komaru lived with her parents, before and after Makoto went to Hope's Peak Academy. Komaru was separated from her parents shortly after the Tragedy began. She thinks of them when things get rough. It is currently unknown whether her parents survived the Tragedy or not.

Partners:
Toko 
Toko appears and helps Komaru through the Demon Hunting game. She constantly calls her "Omaru" instead of her real name. During an interview with the crew behind Danganronpa Another Episode, Kodaka states that the game is about "the deepening friendship between Komaru and Toko."

Komaru respects Toko and admires her as a strong, skilled and amazing person, and doesn't even seem to mind her serial killer split personality as she considers her "just a bit strange, that's all", though Toko strongly disagrees and says that she is nothing like that. At first, Toko finds Komaru and her occasional slow-wittedness and gullible nature irritating, along with her tendency to call herself "normal girl" and breaking down crying when things get bad. However, she also gives Komaru support and encourages her to improve during such tough situations. When Toko "officially" agrees to assist Komaru, she hugs Toko in happiness, which makes Toko uncomfortable due to her not being used to physical contact. Toko is also noted to make most of the decisions, due to Komaru being too unsure to do that. She also remains rather silent about many topics, even if she is actually familiar with them. She is also strongly annoyed by Komaru's love for manga, because she hates them.

In Chapter 2, Toko is shown to be suspicious of Shirokuma and appears slightly protective of Komaru due to her gullible nature. After they enter the Resistance's secret base, Toko and Komaru sleep the night in the same bed, though Toko feels cold because Komaru stole her blanket while sleeping. Komaru agrees to assist Shirokuma and the Resistance with newfound confidence, surprising Toko and making her uncomfortable, because she does not want to contact the Future Foundation.

Later, when the two manage to contact Makoto in Chapter 3, Toko even threatens Komaru's life in order to protect Byakuya who is currently the enemy's hostage. After getting out of the building and the danger, the two have a big argument over this, as Toko claims she is serious about her threat if needed. Komaru is shocked that Toko would kill her friends, but Toko just seems to assume that Komaru is only trying to manipulate her with nice words such as "friends". Saddened, Komaru tries to tell Toko that she truly does trust her, and Toko appears to feel slightly bad but stays silent. When Toko accuses Komaru of doing nothing on her own, but Komaru thinks that is way too mean to say, because she has done some things too. Toko asks if Komaru is expecting her to thank her or something and claims she has never done that to anyone. In the heat of the moment, Komaru shouts that is the reason why Toko doesn't have any friends. Toko is shocked and hurt by this, and then tries to claim that she wants to be alone and would rather die alone than be with a coward like Komaru. However, she still continues to follow Komaru to the Resistance's base, claiming that she has to. However, the two remain mostly silent during the whole way back.

When Toko accuses Haiji of cowardice back in the Resistance, Komaru surprisingly speaks back to her, sympathizing with the Resistance's weak people. This seems to shock Toko a bit, as she assumed Komaru would be on her side. Komaru accuses Toko of not understanding the weak and blaming them for it, but Toko says that she simply blames them for using their weakness as an excuse. Toko is angered and offended when Komaru says that she doesn't understand weak people, stating that she is obviously very weak too, but has stopped using it as an excuse and tries to survive. A bit later, after Genocide Jack saves Komaru from Kotoko, Komaru breaks down crying and apologizes for saying horrible things like that Toko doesn't have any friends. The two then make up and work together again.

In Chapter 4, after Nagisa decides to help the two escape, Toko hesitantly seems to be willing to let Komaru go and leave the city. However, the Servant appears and it's revealed that Toko was forced to assist Komaru and bring her to the children's base, so that she can be exchanged with Byakuya. Komaru is shocked to hear that Toko has lied to her the whole time, with Toko obviously feeling very guilty. However, she then continues to speak mean words and even attacks Komaru with the aid of Genocide Jack, but Komaru realizes she isn't being serious and wants to give Komaru a chance to escape and make her own decision. Genocide Jack and Toko then decide to turn against the Servant, claiming that they wish to protect Komaru and Byakuya. In turn, Komaru decides not to hold the supposed betrayal against Toko, as she was forced to do it, and decides to stay with Toko because they are friends. Toko is immensely happy by this and blushes shyly, because she has never had a real friend before. Afterwards, she thanks Komaru very genuinely for the first time and begins to call her Komaru instead of the somewhat insulting nickname Omaru. After this, the two become real friends, with Komaru trying to teach Toko about friendship, with the two still a bit comically bickering at times. Toko begins to be more nice towards Komaru and genuinely considers her an extremely important person to her, rivaling her love for Byakuya. In Chapter 5, Toko has also shyly claimed while blushing that Komaru has made her happy and it's indicated that Komaru has helped Toko's mental state greatly.

In Chapter 5, Toko snaps Komaru out of it in the time of despair, and swears to help Komaru whenever she can't do something on her own just like Komaru would do for her. Toko gives Komaru a very warm, genuine smile and hugs her, which is extremely notable coming from Toko who normally hates hugs and being touched. After defeating Monaca and rescuing Byakuya, the two stay in Towa City to help its people and wait for Makoto. They also keep sleeping in the same bed, though Toko claims that she does that only because of her fear of ghosts.

Komaru and Toko are seen still together in Towa City in Danganronpa 3, with Komaru somewhat unsuccessfully trying to get Toko used to bathing which she fears. They have a mission to defeat Monaca, but it ends in Monaca's surrender and Komaru saving the two of them from falling. Many months later, they are seen building the new Hope's Peak Academy building along with everyone, and Toko gives a very genuine happy smile when Komaru offers her a drink after the hard work.

Komaru is mentioned by Toko in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, when she has to pick her "best friend" for scavenger hunt during Summer's sport festival, and she laments that she can't pick someone who's not there. She then decides to pick Makoto, because their "surnames match", indicating that Komaru is her best friend in this alternative universe as well and that they just obviously don't go to the same school. However, this is translated incorrectly in the official English version, with Toko inaccurately stating she has no best friend and with no mention of the matching surnames.

Towa City Residents:

Komaru first finds Shirokuma after saving him from other Monokuma Units. Shirokuma seems to like Komaru and even sacrifices himself in order to help Komaru get into the Warriors of Hope's Secret Base.

Komaru seems to like Shirokuma because of his kindness and how he wants to help her and Toko. She also tries to protect Shirokuma from the Monokuma Units when ever he is in danger.

This is all implied to be part of the plan to create a "successor" to Junko Enoshima - when Komaru appears to have rejected her "destiny", Shirokuma takes control of the Big Bang Monokuma to attack her.

Hiroko 
Hiroko and Komaru appear to be friends to some extent, as Hiroko calls Komaru "Koko" ("Komaruchi" in the Japanese version). Hiroko calls Komaru by her first name meaning she is very playful with her.

Haiji Towa 
Komaru has some trust in Haiji, because they have the same goal of defeating the rioting children. She respectfully refers to him as "mister Haiji".

In general, Haiji likes Komaru much more than Toko, because she is slightly younger and nicer in personality. However, he states that he isn't into her "particularly", probably because she is getting a bit too old for his taste. Due to her naivety, Komaru doesn't seem that bothered and thinks it's nice that Haiji is honest about himself, which makes Toko very paranoid of her safety in his company.

After Komaru's grand speech and help with finding the Big Bang Monokuma, Haiji believes she is the adults' hope, causing him to put lots of pressure on her. He turns increasingly more aggressive towards her when she refuses to kill the brainwashed children, at the end even appearing willing to force her.

Yuta 
Yuta and Komaru first meet on the Towa City Bridge. She appeared happy that Yuta survived, after the bridge is destroyed, and took great joy in watching Yuta swim, cheering him on. She was shocked when Yuta exploded and is shown to be traumatized slightly by this event.

Warriors of Hope:
Throughout her whole journey, Komaru comes across the Warriors of Hope. Komaru appears to distrust them, even fear them. Monaca calls her "Big Sis" though Komaru appears to be afraid of her the most. Komaru eventually sees them as her enemies.

Still, after each execution Komaru shows complete shock and is horrified by how the Warriors were treated and how they are executed. Also, Komaru seems to have a very slight friendship with Kotoko after she is saved. By the end of the game, Monaca is the only Warrior of Hope that Komaru definitely seems to view as her enemy.

Some time after these events, Komaru has become friends with all the former members of Warriors of Hope, and all team up together to defeat Monaca. Although Komaru dislikes Monaca, it seems she still has a soft spot for her and believes she was just a misguided girl.

Hope's Peak Academy Staff:
Aoi 
Komaru likes Aoi, seeming to have become friends with her while rebuilding Hope's Peak Academy. She is seen handing Aoi a water bottle, smiling, at one point as well. It's very likely that Komaru knew of Aoi's relation to Yuta, although it's unknown if Komaru informed Aoi of her friendship with her brother.


DRAEDR3
"My name is Komaru Naegi, I'm a completely normal high school girl who lives an abnormal daily life."
"Even with all this evil and chaos, I had complete faith in my world. And even when it felt like I was falling, I kept believing. "It's still okay, it's alright..." Then, I found out that 7 of my classmates had died suspiciously. I fell further still." But even then, I kept telling myself, "It's all going to be fine, don't be afraid..." But the realization that it was too late came to me like the ground rushing up to break my fall." (introduction)
"I was supposed to be a normal high school girl, but instead I became a complacent prisoner. And what was waiting for me at the end of that despair was a despair even deeper, even worse. There's no use in keeping hope. That's what I was forced to realize once again..." (introduction)
"U-Um... You... You kids are just joking, right? With demons and kings... I mean you guys are just kids, right? For a bunch of kids to be doing this kind of stuff..." (to the Warriors of Hope)
"I'm just so scared... I can't help it, I... I feel so afraid... I feel trapped. No matter what I do, I'll end up getting killed." (to Toko Fukawa)
"An amazing girl like you would have a plan for sure. No point in me worrying. Ever since I was imprisoned, I've been all alone. I couldn't depend on anyone else... So I'm really happy you're with me! So, so happy!" (to Toko)
"Unlike you, I'm... I'm just some normal, regular girl. I-I can't even do anything... No matter what I do, or how hard I try, I'm... I'm just gonna die here..." (to Toko, after Yuta Asahina's death)
"I want... I want to see my family... But we've been separated for over a year. I don't even know where they are... It's probably too late, anyway... I'll probably never see them again." (to Toko)
"The worst despair of all comes from having hope like that. Having such strong hope and just losing it in an instant..." (to Toko)
"Ah, so this is his child, huh... What a cute girl... Separated from his family, same as me... He was probably worried about his family... Worried until the very end. I hope his child is doing well at least..." (after finding the photo of Chihiro in Taichi's notebook)
"Unforgivable... No matter what kind of reason you have, whether you're an adult or a child... You *killed* people. So many people... Like it was nothing. And I'll never forgive that...ever!" (to Jataro Kemuri)
"I see... I didn't know about that at all. I never thought something like that was going on... But...you guys are so amazing. I gave up immediately, but you guys... You guys fought and confronted the problem..." (to Toko and her brother, Makoto, after learning about the Killing School Life)
"Makoto... You've definitely changed. Might be weird for your little sister to say this, but you seem more mature now. Just from this conversation I can tell you're more reliable than you used to be." (to Makoto)
"I... I can't take this anymore... I just can't do it anymore... I'm not from Future Foundation! Or Hope's Peak! I'm just a normal girl who can't do anything! Makoto, please, I'm begging you, come save me! Hurry! Please!" (to Makoto, after learning the Future Foundation can't rescue her)
"You...don't understand... You don't understand the feelings of the weak at all... The reason they don't do anything is because they can't build confidence! I would know! You're someone strong, with talent, chosen for Hope's Peak Academy and Future Foundation... You don't know how people like me feel! You don't know what it's like!" (to Toko, about The Resistance)
"It's all...my fault. Everyone got hurt because of me... He's right... If I didn't insist on coming back here... And if I had just tried harder, if I were a better person, I could have protected them... I couldn't do it... Because I'm weak... It's just like Toko said, I'm so weak... I kept saying "I can't do anything," always relying on others... I never even thought about "saving others," and now this happens..." (after being called a traitor by Haiji)
"Ah... I-I don't...hate it... I don't hate it after all..." (about Kotoko's groping torture)
"I thought...you wouldn't come... I mean, right after we had that fight... Waaah! Toko, I was so scared! I'm sorry! I'm sorry... I'm so sorry... I...I tried to leave you... I tried to run away... And I said such horrible things, like that "you don't have any friends" I'm sorry! I'm truly sorry, Toko!" (after re-uniting with Toko)
"No matter how pitiful you are, it doesn't mean that you can hurt others! To just treat them how they treated you... That's just going to make everyone equally miserable!" (to Nagisa)
"Earlier, you said that there is no such thing as pure justice or evil... But even if that's true, a dream that requires you to hurt someone... I think it's wrong." (to Nagisa)
"...No matter how scared you are, there are times when you have to fight. There are times when you need to stand up...and not be afraid of death. We have to do something before we lose something important!" (to Haiji)
"I...don't have any talent... I'm just a normal girl, not special or anything... And I know you guys don't have any reason to listen to someone like me... B-But, well... Ah, how do I put it...? There's something I want to say... B-Because I'm a normal human with no talent... I... I'm just like everyone here. I got caught up in something I didn't understand at all, and I couldn't do anything... So I... I guess I'll just say to you what I wish I said to myself. Hey! How much longer are you going to be just another victim!? You're "normal," you're "weak"... How much longer are you going to use those damn excuses!? You're just happy to be a victim and ignore everything around you! Are you really okay with that, you coward!? Talent or whatever, that doesn't even matter. No matter how much talent or power you have, you can't avoid being scared or hurt! You let everyone else handle things that scare you and say, "I can't help it, I'm normal"... Are you really going to stay that way forever!? Maybe you can't help being normal... But you can't just keep using that as an excuse! If you do, someday... You're gonna lose something that's important to you, y'know? And after that...it'll be too late! It's obvious that we're all afraid... I'm just as scared as you are... But even though I'm afraid... I know I made the right decision. To stay here, with Toko. Because if I just went and left her... I think I would have regretted it. I, along with Toko and everyone here, want a happy ending! A proper happy ending that's super cliché and predictable, where everyone's smiling... So please... Please, let's make that ending happen! Let's stand up against this despair together!" (speech to The Resistance)
"The children might die if I do... The kids wearing those helmets... They're just being brainwashed, none of this is their fault... Not everyone involved was doing this of their own will!" (about breaking the controller)
"...There's no way I could imitate him. And no way I'd want to. I am not my brother. Makoto is Makoto...and I am me." (after Monaca accuses her of imitating her brother in becoming Hope)
"Until now, I kept relying on you, and I never really got to make decisions on my own. But I was like that even before I met you. I used to give up all the time... But the decision to save everyone was one I made on my own. Of course, I'm scared, and I'm worried... But despite that, I've made up my mind. I won't give up until the very end. I'll make sure I protect both. I think I got it from you. You were with me all this time. If I have changed... It's your influence, Toko." (to Toko)
"So the reason I've decided to stay isn't because someone forced me to... It's a choice I made myself. But I know that I can't just expect things to change right away, just because I'm staying... I know that I can't become real hope, like you... So...I'm going to wait. I'm going to wait for the day you guys defeat the Remnants of Despair and come home safe. Ah, but...you don't have to rush or anything, okay? I'll wait until the day you come to pick me up. I have the gun Mister Byakuya gave me.. and I have my reliable friend, Toko." (in her video message to Makoto)
 Komaru is often called "Omaru" by Toko and "Dekomaru" by Genocide Jack. In the official English version, Hiroko nicknamed her "Koko".
Her first name (as 困る) is Japanese for "to be troubled or worried".
Komaru's name is written in hiragana, but can also be written in kanji as 小丸, meaning "little and perfect". The character 丸 is also the second kanji in the word 弾丸 dangan, which means "bullet". Thus, it could be that Komaru's name is meant to imply at her relation to Makoto, who is the first character in the series to utilize "Truth Bullets".
Her last name (苗木) means "seedlings."
Komaru's dream is to become a manga artist.
One of her favorite manga is The Bomb Inside Her.
Komaru's favorite idol is Sayaka Maizono. She calls herself a 'Sayaker' which she explains is a term used by and for Sayaka's fans. Komaru states that she tends to buy CDs and merchandise with her monthly allowance.
Komaru seems to be unafraid of the dark, though she says that she doesn't like it.
Although Komaru is almost completely normal to what Toko explains as being "at a frightening degree", she does have some unusual traits.
She appears to have an ability to sense and talk with ghosts.
She has strange tastes in food; her favorite foods are sparrow's nests, tuna eyeballs, and kangaroos.
She admits that she enjoys talking into electrical fans and that she is sorta bad at math, while her Hit List entry is examined.
In Chapter 1, Komaru accidentally stated that she can't ride a bicycle.
In Chapter 4, she somehow rode a motorcycle carrying Toko Fukawa and Haiji Towa, despite not being able to ride a bicycle.
02-21
Komaru in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent.

Komaru's "reprimanding" sprite from Danganronpa Another Episode is very similar to that of Mahiru Koizumi from Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair.
Komaru and her brother Makoto (voiced by Aya Uchida and Megumi Ogata) perform the ending theme of Danganronpa Another Episode, Progressive -Zan Shin-, together.
Komaru appears as a guest character in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent. Her Max ATK is 8650 while her Max HP is 5670. Her weapon is the Megaphone Hacking Gun and its ability is doubled attack power. Her deathblow is "PARALYZE", which slows down and damages enemies on the range.
A pun on Chibi Maruko-chan is made in Danganronpa 3 - Future Arc, in one of Toko's fantasies about Byakuya, with Komaru appearing designed just like the show's protagonist and even called: "Chibi Komaru-chan".
Komaru appears in Mystery Chronicle: One Way Heroics as the Ultimate Student class, being one of three designs available for it alongside Makoto and Monokuma.
The profile for the Ultimate Students states, You are the Ult. student. You may be the best, but you're just a student...You're not very good at close range combat. Master the various Truth Bullet (TB) skills and survive in this harsh world.

Toko is a very skinny female said to be around 19 years old in Danganronpa and Danganronpa Another Episode,though she believed herself to be 17 in the first game because of the memory loss. By the end of Danganronpa 3, she is a few years older and in her early twenties, around at least 21.

She is always seen in a Japanese school uniform with a noticeably lengthy skirt compared to those worn by other girls. She wears round eyeglasses, and her dark purple hair is tied in two long braids. The left side of her chin is marked by a small mole.

However, in Danganronpa Another Episode, Toko lets her hair flow freely instead of being kept in braids. She wears six hairclips and possesses an ahoge. Her dress is noticeably more tattered than it was in the first game, revealing the list of victims that Genocide Jack wrote on Toko.

Toko has tally-marks carved onto her upper thighs, a count of how many people Genocide Jack has killed.

Toko's appearance in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.


Toko is intellectually gifted, but she has problems in social behavior. It's been stated that she either never learned or never bothered to learn social skills. She even considers herself a gloomy outcast, often deciding to distance from others.

Due to the constant bullying she faced as a child, Toko is highly suspicious of other people, frequently accusing them of thinking bad things about her. She expresses her opinions freely and extremely bluntly, which can come across mean and more than often rubbing people the wrong way, though she claims she is just being honest. She has unusually quick tendencies to self-victimize and she refuses to believe compliments from other people. She also is very self-conscious about her body and tends to think that other people consider her very ugly. At times, in Another Episode, she tries to appear as young as possible and she is paranoid that others might consider her "an old hag" However, she is also offended if her body is not considered attractive and adult-like.

Toko could often be seen stalking Byakuya Togami, seeing him as the "ideal boyfriend", behaving submissively toward him and calling him "master". After revealing her alternate identity, Genocide Jack, Toko's crush on Byakuya took on a more distinctively sexual undertone, and she was capable of neither proper judgment, nor control over her perverse fantasies. In Danganronpa Another Episode, it's confirmed that she's a masochist, though she also seems to have sadistic fantasies about Byakuya. Ironically, she has a tendency to scold other people for being indecent, sometimes with no good reason. Due to her paranoia, she easily assumes that boys have bad intentions if they wish to spend time alone with her.

Toko is also extremely afraid of blood and the dark due to very traumatic experiences. She also strongly dislikes bathing, to the point of fear, which might also be a result of an unknown trauma. Furthermore, she gains a fear of ghosts due to Komaru's ability to interact with them, even though she denied their existence previously.

In the first game, Byakuya was Toko's major motivator, to the point of harming others. Jack notably did so to Aoi Asahina, cutting her for slapping Byakuya when he relentlessly antagonized Sakura Ogami for being Monokuma's mole. Toko would rather be a blind follower of the group, even if the populist ideas clearly did not fit the situation. During the First Trial, Toko quickly condemned Makoto Naegi as a killer because Sayaka Maizono was in his bathroom.

In Danganronpa Another Episode, Toko revealed a slightly kinder and more caring side of herself as she traveled with Komaru throughout Towa City. Though she remained rather pessimistic and gloomy, she was more mature and stronger. She forced herself to be strong and believed that fighting against all odds is the only way out, often echoing Makoto's sentiments and begrudgingly ing him with the courage she had gained. When Komaru approached the point of giving in to despair, Toko encouraged her to stand up and face her fears. While not used to touching other people, she is later fine with hugging Komaru, and willing to comfort her friend though she says she isn't good at it.

As a result of her experiences in the killing game, Toko also became easily frustrated by people who give up and make excuses, calling them cowards. She accuses them of not being prepared to stand up for themselves, something that reminded her of her past self. She also took a stand in challenging her own fears; she no longer faints at the sight of blood, having taken Byakuya's advice about growing up. However, she still remained extremely disgusted at the sight of large amounts of blood.


Ultimate Writing 
Danganronpa 1 Toko Fukawa English Game IntroductionAs the Ultimate Writing Prodigy, Toko possesses extreme writing skills. The first time she knew that she has a talent for writing was when one of her teacher in elementary school found her love letter and later supported her to keep writing and expand her knowledge about literature.
One of her romance novels 'So Lingers the Ocean' was extremely popular. Even at her young age, she received many awards.

In other 
Toko's talent as it appears in official translations for the Danganronpa franchise.

Ultimate Writing Prodigy
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「文学少女」	Super High School Level Literary Girl
‪中文(台灣)‬超高校級的"文學少女"	Super High School Level Literature Maiden
中文超高校级的"文学少女"	Super High School Level Literature Maiden(DRtA)
Français L'Auteure Ultime	Ultimate Author (DRV3)
DeutschSuper-Bücherwurm	Super Bookworm (DRtA)
ItalianoSuper Topo di Biblioteca Liceale	Super High School Level Bookworm(DRtA)
EspañolSuper Estudiante de Instituto Nivel: Rata de Biblioteca	Super High School Student Level: Bookworm (DRtA)
한국어초 고교급 문학소녀	Super High School Class Literary Girl(DR:AE)
‪中文(台灣)‬超高中級的文學少女	Super High School Level Literary Girl (DR:AE)

Prior to the 
At the hospital where Toko was born, a baby born at the same time died in a medical accident. It was unclear which mother's child was the dead baby. Both mothers refused to test their blood, as they both wanted their child to die. Around the child's accidental death, it became clear that the two women slept with the same man.

Toko lived with one father and two mothers. Though the circumstances are a bit unclear, it's been confirmed that she was mistreated as a child. She was once locked into a closet and forced to stay there for three days without food. This traumatic experience resulted in her developing a pathological fear of the dark. She experienced severe psychological pressure and at some point turned to novels for comfort, but the negative feelings were too strong. This childhood trauma caused Genocide Jack to split off. Jack killed several young men; the people on the Internet, unaware of her gender, started to call her Genocide Jack. Toko blamed her mothers for Genocide Jack's creation.

On top of it all, Toko didn't have friends and was bullied in school. When she was in third grade, someone's lunch money was stolen and it was found in her desk. Toko was blamed for the theft, and her classmates tied her up to the jungle gym with a garden hose.

Toko became extremely close to her pet stink bug, Kameko. She believed that Kameko was a special insect that could understand her feelings.

Toko's first love was a boy who she had been friends with in elementary school. When she found out he was moving away to Shikoku, she realized that she was indeed in love with him. Being too shy to tell him in person, she instead wrote him a letter. The next day, Toko found that the boy had pinned her letter on the bulletin board as a way of mocking her. Genocide Jack reacted by following the boy to Shikoku and killing him.

In Toko's eighth grade year, a boy from the neighboring class asked her out on a date completely out of the blue. She then spent three days and three nights planning the date. Toko eventually decided to go see an action movie. Halfway through it, her date disappeared. She later discovered that the boy had only asked her out because he lost a bet with his friends, causing her great emotional trauma.

However, the letter Toko wrote for her first love was read by her teacher. The teacher told her she had a way with words, which started Toko's career as a writer. One of her romance novels, 'So Lingers the Ocean', was a huge hit that managed to shoot fishermen to the top of all the "Hottest Men" polls. Despite her young age, Toko won several awards and was constantly on the top-selling list.

Toko used to attend Riverbank Girl's High School and was later invited to Hope's Peak Academy's 78th class as the Ultimate Writing Prodigy.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak 
Toko was seen chatting with Byakuya and Yasuhiro Hagakure when Class 78th were working together to shelter the old school building during the Tragedy.

During The 
Jin Kirigiri, the Headmaster of the Academy, planned to seal the school building and let the students take refuge in the Academy. The class agreed to this plan, and they sealed the building together and lived peacefully inside it for a year, not knowing that the Ultimate Despair members were already in their midst.

Danganronpa: Trigger Happy 
Prologue - Welcome to 
At the start of the Mutual Killing Game of Class 78, Toko loudly accused everyone of persecuting her even though no one had, and then quickly became cooped-up and withdrawn.

Chapter 1 - To 
Toko was being cooped-up and withdrawn until the first trial that more of her personality was laid out in the open, including her perpetual obsession over ham.

Chapter 2 - Boy's Life of 
In Chapter 2, Toko starts to fall in love with Byakuya. However, the attraction is apparently far from mutual, as Byakuya seems utterly indifferent towards her. However, Toko seems blissfully unaware of this fact and always stays by Byakuya's side.

During the trial, Byakuya reveals that Toko has a split personality, which happens to be the infamous serial killer Genocide Jack.

Chapter 4 - All•Star•
In Chapter 4, Sakura sends Toko a message to meet with her at the rec room. Afraid of Sakura, she comes earlier than the meeting time and hides inside a locker. She sees Sakura enter the rec room, followed by Yasuhiro soon after.

Toko is shocked after Yasuhiro suddenly attacks Sakura with a Monokuma Bottle, causing Sakura to faint. Yasuhiro then creates a fake dying message on a magazine, writing Toko's name with Sakura's blood. After Yasuhiro escapes from the rec room, Toko nervously comes out from her hiding place to hide the magazine, but she accidentally places it upside down in her panic.

Joining the Future 
Toko and the others survived together in the apocalyptic world until they were found by the Future Foundation. They decided to join Future Foundation to fight against despair, and the Future Foundation helped them to recover their school memories.

However, Toko wasn't accepted as a full member of the Future Foundation and instead became an intern, since Genocide Jack was considered a threat. Toko, annoyed that Aoi and Yasuhiro became members first, strove to control Genocide Jack and become a full member. She promises Byakuya that she won't let Genocide Jack murder anyone ever again.

Danganronpa Gaiden: Killer 
Chapter 3 - Bessatsu Shounen Zetsubou 
Toko was seen in the explanation of the Tragedy, along with the survivors of the Killing School Life as one of the people integral in stopping the Tragedy's mastermind, Junko Enoshima.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Toko appears as one of the main protagonists in Danganronpa Another Episode, aiding Komaru in her journey to rescue Byakuya.

Chapter 1 - Crying for Love in 
Toko first appears in Chapter 1, after Genocide Jack brings Komaru to a safe point and switches back into Toko. She explains to Komaru that she is an ally, revealing that she can now control Genocide Jack using a stun-gun; Toko can switch with Genocide Jack for as long as the electrical charge lasts.

After Toko and Komaru succeed in getting rid of the Monokuma Units on the rooftop, Toko introduces herself to Komaru. She explains that Genocide Jack has been completely tamed by her stun-gun and would not be committing murder ever again, but that she would only use the stun-gun in an emergency, because using it too many times would fry her brain.

Later, Toko gets mad when she overhears that Komaru was saved by Byakuya, saying she won't let anyone get in her way of love. Toko decides to remain in Towa City to save Byakuya from the Warriors of Hope, a group of kids who murder adults in the name of Monokuma.

Toko and Komaru find two corpses near the shelter, and they arrive at the supply room where the generator is located. When they succeed in opening the shelter, Komaru asks Toko to bring her the Megaphone Hacking Gun, but she refuses, claiming that she is allergic to machines. They encounter more Monokuma Units and a Monokuma Kid standing next to a gift box.

Komaru thinks the Monokuma Kid was the one who she met in the park, but Toko refutes this theory. The Monokuma Kids, as Toko describes it, have been cooperating with Monokuma to kill all adults. Komaru takes the gift box, and the Monokuma Kid runs away from them. They continue their escape, finding many books along the way. Finally, they arrive at the Monitoring Room and discover a game machine (Monoc-Man), which Toko says has been played by the Monokuma Kids.

The machine actually shows the map of the hospital lobby. Toko suggests that Komaru should try not to get discovered by the Monokuma Units and finally they succeed in escaping from the hospital.

After Toko and Komaru succeed in getting out of the hospital, Komaru asks Toko how she recognized her. Toko is caught off guard by this for a few moments, before reluctantly answering that she overheard Byakuya mentioning Komaru's name in the Future Foundation's helicopter. She explains that she is not a formal member because of Jack's existence still being considered as a threat, but that she was still a research assistant. She can only become a formal member until she could controlled Genocide Jack to not kill people again. This explains why she does not wear a Future Foundations uniform. It is also revealed that she didn't have any other clothes except her dark purple sailor uniform. Komaru explains to Toko that her only plan is to escape from the city because if she stayed, she would only be attacked by more Monokuma Units. However, she eventually changes her plan to stick together with Toko to help search and help Byakuya. Komaru, who was very thankful that Toko is sticking with her, hugs her. Komaru then notices that there is a bridge to escape from the city, so the duo heads for Towa Bridge.

On the way to the Towa Bridge, Toko tells Komaru to test her Hacking Gun by trying to move an elite Towa electric car. At this point they are met with many Monokuma Units and Monokuma Kids who had been killing adults. After they work together to climb a big container, they are suddenly attacked by two Bomber Monokuma. Fortunately, Komaru defeats them and the duo arrives at a ruined hotel.

In the second floor of the hotel, Toko and Komaru find two phones that led Komaru to believe that they could contact the police to save them. But Toko states that the internet and cell phones have been disconnected. They also discovered many books in the hotel rooms, which they later discuss.

After that, Toko and Komaru arrive in front of the lifts. Here, they discover a Kill List card. Komaru learns from Toko that she is not the only one who has been targeted by the Warriors of Hope. It is also learned that The Warriors are also the ones who created the cards as a way to more efficiently hunt down their targets. Toko and Komaru, using the lifts, go downstairs and use another game machine as a map. Toko suggests that Komaru try to destroy the Monokuma unit with one blow. Komaru then shoots the bomb packs of a Bomber Monokuma, which explode and take care of the whole Monokuma Unit.

Succeeding in defeating the Monokuma Units, Toko and Komaru is again met by a gifting Monokuma Kid. This one gives Komaru a letter, which reveals a challenge from the Monokuma Kid. They want Toko and Komaru to answer their riddles and deduce the secret password. It's revealed that the secret password was written as "hell" based on the sofa's arrangement. After defeating the Monokuma Kid by cracking the secret password, they finally get out from the hotel and could see the bridge near that area.

Upon arriving on the side of the bridge, Toko feels that something isn't right, questioning why they so easily arrived at the bridge, almost unscathed. Toko reasons that something dangerous might come from the bridge. While they both ponder the dilemma, a boy named Yuta Asahina suddenly approaches them. He then introduces himself, leaving Toko shocked upon hearing his last name.

Toko, Komaru, and Yuta had hoped to cross the bridge in order to escape, but soon find that half of the bridge has been destroyed. This realization sends Yuta into a mental breakdown, before he is reminded by Toko that they must keep moving if they want to survive. Yuta is motivated by her words, to return to the city before the bridge completely collapses.

Though the bridge had completely collapsed, Toko, Komaru, and Yuta manage to escape to safety. Not dismayed by the fallen bridge, Yuta decides that he will swim out of Towa City. Komaru asks him if it is really far to the other shore, before Toko chimes in and warns that there may be some strange creatures living in the sea because of the pollution. Yuta confidently answers that the only thing that he needs to do is to be careful, although he admits that it will be very troublesome.

Toko tried to stop him, but to no avail. While swimming, his bracelet is activated (as a result of being too far from Towa City) and explodes, killing him instantly. Komaru is devastated by what happened to Yuta and bursts into tears, stating that it's impossible to escape. But Toko encourages her to at least die trying to find a way out instead of waiting to die (adding quietly that they were words from Makoto). While encouraging Komaru, she states that she can't hide Yuta's death from Aoi, his big sister. The two then try to use the underground subway station to escape, by returning to the place where they left the hotel first.

On the way, Toko and Komaru meet with a Monokuma Unit lead by a Siren Monokuma, which they easily get rid of. Inside a building called "Koban", they meet with a Monokuma Kid who gives Komaru a new bullet. This Truth Bullet is called "Dance" mode. It is in this building that the duo also find another game machine to use as a map to escape from the building.

After Toko and Komaru succeed in defeating the Monokuma Unit using Komaru's new truth bullet, they meet with an adult who survived the Monokuma Kids attack alone after his parents and son were killed by Monokuma Units. When Komaru invites him to went along, he rejects because his right leg was injured heavily by the Monokuma Unit. Toko responds that it's fine to leave him alone because it would be troublesome to carry him along, and as they leave suggests that hiding is the best way for that man to survive the riots.

Upon arrived at the underground subway station, the gate is seen to be shuttered. Komaru starts to get panicked, but Toko calms her down by telling her that the shutter was locked by someone and that there must be a clue as to who did it somewhere. They look around and eventually come across a key on the corpse of a station worker that was killed by the Monokuma Kids.

As soon as Komaru takes the key, a Monokuma Kid appears, hits her and steals the key. Toko and Komaru then chase the Monokuma Kid until they arrive at the construction site. Inside it, the Monokuma Kid climbs the building, knowing that Toko and Komaru won't climb it as well. Komaru suggests to them that they should go around the building entrances and trap the Monokuma Kid in a "dead end" area. Arriving at the dead end, they find a challenge-letter from the Monokuma Kid to come to the hospital, the place where Toko and Komaru's journey began.

Arriving at the hospital, Toko and Komaru are trapped by the Monokuma Kid inside the operation room where they encounter a Junk Monokuma. Komaru tries to escape, but the door is locked until they defeated the Junk Monokuma. They follow the Monokuma Kid until they finally arrive in the Director Room, where they get another challenge from the Monokuma Kid.

Komaru earns the new Truth Bullet called as "View" bullet. Her task is to uncover the secret of the "four public figures" photo sequence and enter the secret password to get the key of the subway station. After they managed to defeat the Monokuma Kid, which later seen crying and running away, they take the key from the safe and returned to the underground subway station.

In front of the subway station, Toko and Komaru are confronted by a panicked female adult who can't say things clearly and keeps apologizing to Komaru and Toko. After talking with the adult, the duo is finally able to open the shutter and go downstairs. However, the only thing they can see is darkness, until someone suddenly turns on stage lights and fixes them onto the girls.

Finally Toko and Komaru realize that they have been trapped in the center of an arena full of Monokuma Kids, who are being happily overseen by the leader of the Warriors of Hope. This leader is the person in charge of the Hero Class, Masaru Daimon. He explains that he will banish all of the "demons" (adults) from Towa City to make a children-only paradise.

After that, Masaru opens the door below him and many corpses of adults appear. He states that they're the corpses of all the adults that he has killed. As the Monokuma Kids continue to cheer from around the arena, he begins to feel fear; something which he apparently never felt in any of his his previous "demon slaying sessions".

Seeing his left hand trembling, Masaru enters a state of panic, mixed with the resurfacing of his abusive past. He frantically chants to himself over and over that "heroes aren't afraid of anything," then proceeds to beat his own left arm for trembling in fear. Komaru tries to calm him down, but after he is finished panicking, with his arm completely blue with bruises, he only seems more determined to defeat the girls.

However, Toko and Komaru succeed in defeating him, which results in having the Monokuma Kids execute him. Komaru is shocked by this, but Toko remarks that it was too simple (since she was already experienced in witnessing horrific executions back at her school). The two leave, only to see another subway station has been opened. Upon noticing this, the two decide to enter, still hoping to find an exit from this town. Without their knowing, someone has been spying on them this whole time.

Chapter 2 - Legend of the 
Komaru and Toko entered the opened subway station only to found an unmoving train. Feeling down for a moment, Komaru finally decided to walk along the railway. Komaru could sense Toko worried about something, but she kept denying it and repeat herself that she was worried due to the dark. During their explore, an earthquake suddenly struck and made the ceiling collapse. Toko lost consciousness after a large rock hit her, and switched to Genocide Jack, who quickly dashed back to the entrance followed by Komaru. At very last second, Komaru and Jack managed to escaped the destroyed tunnel. Komaru questioned why Toko's personality suddenly changed, and Genocide Jack answered that losing consciousness and sneezing switch her personality state.

After Jack sneezed and switched to Toko again, Komaru became depressed, wondering if she couldn't really escape from Towa City. Just before Toko could rally Komaru again like she did after Yuta's death, two Monokuma Kids approached them with a television monitor. The monitor connected to the Warriors of Hope headquarters, and Jataro Kemuri, one of the Warriors of Hope, appeared on the screen. Jataro introduced himself to the girls before explaining that Komaru, having a wristband, can't leave the city because she is one of the Warriors of Hope's targets. He also explained that there's a limit within the game. Toko guessed that's why Yuta's wristband exploded when he tried to swim away from the island. Jataro replied that it wasn't the Warriors of Hope's fault, and that the wristband is made to explode when the wearer goes outside the town without permission.

Before he left, Jataro presented his masterpiece: a diorama featuring a giant Monokuma behind adults happily dancing together, with the hopes of making the girls hate him. Soon, however, the video changed to reveal the puppet master, a Monokuma, moving the adults' corpses with wire and giant bolts screwed through their wrists. As the television shut off, Komaru cried. Toko once again rallied Komaru to not lose her hope to survive, saying that she was with Komaru to fight beside her, and for her to rely on.

Komaru and Toko later decided to go the back the way they came. On the surface, they were surprised to see hundreds of Monokumas and Monokuma Kids dancing. For their safety, they retreated back down to the subway. Toko, forgetting that she is afraid of the dark, suggested to go back to the underground, to which Komaru agreed, thinking that Toko was showing her how to go forward despite being scared. Annoyed, Toko eventually had no choice, and the two of them traveled back to the underground.

Exploring the district deeper, the two girls then saw someone underneath a white sheet being kicked by Monokumas, crying and begging them to stop. After Komaru destroyed the Monokumas, she went to uncover the white sheet to check if that "someone" was okay. Komaru was surprised after discovering that the someone was a white Monokuma.

Just when Komaru and Toko speculated what and who he was, he then started to speak, surprising the two girls. Even though the bear confessed that he's not a suspicious bear, Toko ordered Komaru to shoot him. He was shocked and told them that he's different than the other Monokumas because he has an AI inside him, introducing himself as Shirokuma. Toko told Komaru to not be fooled by his cuteness, but was eventually fooled herself when he said that he wanted be friends with many pretty ladies. Shirokuma also confessed that he can tell the date and time of someone's first kiss, making Toko further fooled by him.

Once Toko calmed down from her "heated" imagination to uncover those "fraudulent career women's virginity", Shirokuma asked them why Komaru and Toko were in the city. Komaru answered that they had no place to go, so Shirokuma offered them a safe place to hide. Toko didn't trust Shirokuma, thinking he wanted to kidnap them. Shirokuma said that that the safe place is a secret base underground where adults are living in hiding. Komaru thought it a good idea to go there. Toko once again left with no other options, the girls follow Shirokuma to the adults's secret base.

After traveling for a while in the underground subway station, the group decided to take a short break. Toko, who still didn't trust Shirokuma, accused him of lying in wait for them earlier. Shirokuma admitted to this, but claimed that he watched them only so he could save them. Komaru asked Shirokuma why he wanted to save them, and he answered that he "just wants to save people." Komaru was amazed by Shirokuma's dedication and decided to keep relying on him as an ally, but Toko stayed suspicious. Shirokuma then led them down a hole with a ladder to the Towa City Sewers, where the secret base was.

Exploring the sewer, the group eventually found the ladder to the secret base. Shirokuma told the girls to follow him up the ladder, with Toko forcing Komaru to go first because she might die if Komaru saw her panties.

Komaru and Toko were surprised to see many adults in the secret base, which was an old warehouse used to store water tanks that the kids didn't know existed. Komaru questioned why there were so many trailers inside the base and Shirokuma answered that he brought them there to make it a little easier for everyone to live. He then let them meet with some of the other adults around the base before speaking with them further.

Komaru and Toko chatted with several adults until finally they met with a woman a bit different from the others. Komaru was surprised after the woman showed them her Monokuma wristband. The woman was glad to finally meet an "ally" and explained that there are plenty of Hit List Targets hiding throughout the city. If possible, she wanted to save them and bring them to the secret base. She explained that nobody but Shirokuma was allowed to go outside unless they could sneak out, commenting that she has adults sneak outside to bring her cigarettes. She introduced herself as Hiroko Hagakure. Toko, who knew that the women was related to one of her classmates, wondered if she was his older sister or maybe the mother. Hiroko quickly nicknamed the two girls "Koko" and "Fufu."

Shirokuma them invited them to the conference room. Inside, he saw no signs of the leader of the Resistance. Shirokuma wanted introduce him to Komaru and Toko. While they waited, Komaru and Toko read several notebooks inside the room's lockers. Then suddenly the door opened and Haiji Towa, the leader of the Resistance, showed up. Toko, who didn't expect the leader to be a "handsome" guy, quickly introduced herself, followed by Komaru. Komaru stepped in before Toko could ask him nonsense questions and instead asked Haiji if he was related to the Towa Group. Haiji replied that he is the son of Towa Group's chairman, and had lost everything: Towa Group, as well as the entirety of Towa City, because of the kids. Haiji commented that he doesn't know the full details of Towa City's current situation, as the only one who does know is his father who has been missing since the riots.

Komaru became depressed when she suddenly remembered her missing parents and asked Haiji if he knew how to escape the city. He told her that all of the roads to outside the city are completely blocked and Komaru's wristband would explode if she tried to escape. Komaru desperately asked if she could somehow get rid of the Monokuma wristband, but neither Haiji nor Shirokuma knew how. Haiji advised that staying put and keeping quiet is the best move. Toko questioned why the Resistance doesn't try to fight the kids, but Haiji insisted that it would be suicide if they tried. Toko called him a coward, but he claimed that he's only waiting for the opportunity to strike back. When Komaru felt that Toko's harshness had gone too far, Toko confessed that she was also speaking to Komaru and criticized her for only making excuses rather than fighting back.

Toko then guessed that maybe Future Foundation's technology could get rid of the wristband. When Toko revealed herself to be a member of Future Foundation, Haiji angrily ordered Toko and Komaru to get out of the secret base and refused to cooperate with them.

Toko and Komaru decided to leave the secret base, but as they did they saw adults screaming while they watched a monitor. Shirokuma diverted their attention, saying it would be best if they didn't watch, and offered them to stay the night as it wouldn't be safe for the girls to go out at dark. He then led them to a makeshift room, which was actually a prison cell.

Shirokuma asked Toko and Komaru if Future Foundation would really come and save the adults, to which they replied that it's impossible to reach them. Shirokuma then gave the girls a wireless laptop developed by Togami Group that can send audio and video, noting that it wasn't available to the public aside from groups like the police and Future Foundation, and the girls could use it if they got around the jamming radio waves emitted from Towa Hills be climbing to the top of a building called Towa Tower. Toko asked why Shirokuma didn't send other adults for the job if he already knew all this, but he explained they're the only ones he trusts can fight the Monokumas and safely reach Towa Tower. Komaru insisted on going, as she wanted to keep trying to survive and move forward. Toko reluctantly agreed and the two decided to get some rest for the night before heading out the next day. Komaru, who could finally see a ray of hope thanks to Shirokuma, hugged and surprised the white bear.

The next morning, feeling refreshed after a night's sleep, the two were seen off by Shirokuma. Now above ground, Komaru and Toko made their way along the river side shopping district and finally arrived in front of Towa Tower. As they tried going inside, Jataro revealed himself and ordered a large group of Monokumas to attack them from every direction. Once they defeated them, Toko cautioned Komaru that they should be wary of a second ambush by Jataro and that the whole situation could be a setup by Shirokuma.

Once inside, the two tried using the elevator, but it wouldn't open without a key card. Despite Toko's protest, the two defeated the Ball Monokuma blocking the stairs and climbed the tower on foot. On the fourth floor they met a man with glasses who confessed that while hiding from the kids he was trying to program a way on his laptop to remove his wristband. Upon Komaru showing she wore the same wristband, the man regrettably informed her that until they are removed neither of them can leave the city; Komaru denied this, saying they would contact Future Foundation from atop Towa Tower using their laptop's wireless communication. The man understood and offered to try programming around the elevator's card key function. Even though he didn't expect them to want his help as they can't trust someone they just met, the girls gladly accepted.

At the elevator, the man had barely begun hacking around the security system when Junk Monokumas appeared, forcing Komaru and Toko to cover him. Once finished, he thanked Komaru and Toko, saying that because of them he finally started to see a ray of hope and that given a good connection Future Foundation would surely save them. Unfortunately, when the elevator opened, a Beast Monokuma emerged and attacked the man. After the girls defeated the Beast Monokumas, the man apologized for not accompanying them further but assured them that they would be fine. On his dying breath, he told Komaru and Toko that he has a child around their age and his only regret was not being able to see her one last time. Komaru then found the man's handbook nearby, and inside discovered a picture of him and his child; she hoped that the child was all right, while Toko was silent due to knowing the child's fate and recommended they move forward.

The two then entered the elevator, but just before Toko wanted to talk with Komaru about Future Foundation, the elevator suddenly stopped. The girls forced the elevator's door open to find themselves in a dungeon where Jataro and the audience of Monokuma Kids waited for them. Toko asked Jataro why he wore his mask and told him to take it off, but Jataro refused, telling them that "if they look at his face, their eyeballs are gonna rot off" and asked aloud why else his mother forced him to wear the mask everyday unless he was ugly. Komaru replied angrily that the kids' doing is unforgivable, no matter their reasons. The Monokuma Kids then boo at Jataro, making him more ecstatic due to being hated by even them. He summoned his robot, saying the only one who liked him was "Big Sis Junko." Komaru and Toko defeat Jataro's Priest robot, which destroys itself with a misfired final homing bomb shot, causing the Momokuma Kids to pull off Jataro's mask and 'punish' him.

Feeling no remorse for Jataro, Komaru told Toko to go with her. Toko tried to warn Komaru about Future Foundation one final time but but forgot what she was going to say, instead proceeding to enter the code on the laptop so Komaru can speak with Future Foundation. It seemed unable to connect, but just as Toko said they should give up, Makoto Naegi from Future Foundation 14th Division appeared on the screen.

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's 
Makoto explained that he joined the Future Foundation and also reveals that Toko went to rescue Byakuya without orders from Future Foundation. Komaru realized that Makoto and Toko already knew each other and wondered why Toko didn't tell her, to which Makoto responded "that's Toko for you." Toko then told Makoto that Byakuya had been captured by the kids, which led Makoto to explain that he, Toko, and Byakuya survived after being trapped inside Hope's Peak Academy with their classmates and were forced to kill each other. The mastermind broadcasted the Killing Game so she could show the world the students of Hope's Peak Academy, the symbols of hope, falling to despair and death, thus furthering The Tragedy. The survivors resolved to join Future Foundation and fight against the Remnants of Despair, who were trying to spread despair to the entire world. Toko suddenly cried after remembering the suffering of The Tragedy, while Komaru commented that she had no idea any of that happened due to her imprisonment.

Komaru begged for Makoto to remove her wristband and save her, but Toko interjected, saying that she would refuse to let this happen as it would put Master Byakuya in danger. She went as far as threatening to kill Komaru, but by this point, the wireless connection had cut off. Having found the girls, the Monokuma Kids shuttered the windows and plunged the top floor into pure darkness. Luckily a Monokuma Kid dropped a glow stick and tracked paint across the floor, leading Komaru and Toko to an emergency staircase. This was a trap, however, as the door exploded and briefly knocked the girls unconscious. Once they both awakened, Komaru shot a Bomber Monokuma, destroying a cracked window allowing them to escape to Towa Tower's second floor via ladder. They then cleared a handful more of Monokuma Kid challenges before finally exiting Towa Tower. Once outside, Komaru asked Toko whether she was serious about killing her, to which Toko responded that she was certainly willing to kill a friend if it meant Byakuya's safety. This led to a short-term rift in the twos' friendship but they ultimately returned to the adults' secret base together, with Toko tailing Komaru for her own "reason."

Upon their arrival at the secret base, the girls were greeted by adults giving them the cold shoulder. Shirokuma then appeared and brought them to the conference room to speak with Haiji, who brought up a plan to reason with the kids, which was immediately refused by the other adults. Komaru tried to support his idea but Toko reminded them that the children had no mercy whatsoever. In response, Haiji further insisted to lie in wait for a better opportunity to strike. Toko once again accused Haiji of being a weak leader, but Komaru sided with him, arguing that Toko did not understand the feelings of the weak.

Before the situation escalated further, an adult broke in the conference room and announced that Monokumas had found their base and were already massacring adults. In response to Shirokuma's plea, Toko and Komaru succeed expelling a large group of Monokumas from the base. Despite their efforts, however, Haiji had the two girls imprisoned as he believed they led the Monokumas back to the base to begin with.

After Komaru kidnapped by Kotoko, Toko decided to save her and infiltrated Kotoko's personal train. She finally encountered the fighter and while speaking to her, Toko used Kotoko's trigger word "gentle," causing her to lose her composure and call on her robot to fight the two girls. Upon the robot's defeat, the Monokuma Kids attempted to 'punish' Kotoko for losing, but Genocide Jack was instead able to save her for interrogation purposes.

Suddenly, Nagisa appeared and requested that Toko and Komaru leave the city. Already prepared to persuade Monaca, Nagisa insisted upon letting them escape in order for the Warriors of Hope's Children's Paradise to succeed.

Chapter 4 - The Way We 
Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair 
Epilogue - The Changing World We 
After defeating Big Bang Monokuma, the two girls obtained the keys to the storeroom that imprisoned Byakuya. They ended up having an argument right outside the storeroom because of Komaru's wish to try to save both the enraged adults and the brainwashed children; Toko was extremely frustrated that after Komaru had so desperately wanted to get out of Towa City, she ended up wanting to protect the denizens of Towa City.

After freeing Byakuya from captivity, Toko decided to remain behind in Towa City with Komaru instead of going back to the Future Foundation, mainly for Komaru's sake as a friend, but also in order to cover for Byakuya's escape and to stay the Future Foundation's hands on the city, preventing them from discovering the dark secrets of the Towa Group.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Toko doesn't appear in this game, having remained in Towa city with Komaru after the events of Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls. Kyoko mentioned her, telling Byakuya that someone is waiting for him to return. Byakuya then told her not to remind him of "something so horrifying".

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 06 - No Man is an Island 
Komaru is trying to force Toko to take a bath when they got a call from Byakuya, who presumably informed them of Monaca's involvement in the Final Killing Game that was taking place at the Future Foundation's headquarters. Toko got her taser ready as Komaru grabbed her Megaphone Hacking Gun to hunt down Monaca who is hiding somewhere in Towa City.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair 
Toko is running alongside Komaru as they battle through Monokuma's and make their way to Monaca's base. Toko got tired of running, and used her taser to turn into Genocide Jack, attacking some Monokumas. She turned back into Toko after they clear away the Monokumas.

As they make their way to Monaca's base, they encountered more Monokumas. Toko said she can't lose this battle as Byakuya wanted her help. Toko then has a fantasy about her and Byakuya being together with eighteenth sons and a "mini-Komaru" that is Toko's friend and servant. Byakuya insults mini-Komaru, and says that Toko is more beautiful. As the two of them reached Monaca's surprisingly "stood out" hideout, Toko turned back into Genocide Jack to fight Monokumas, but they are overpowered, and escape into a room with a bunch of robots. The lights turn on, and a giant curtain reveals a large tv screen that Monaca appears on. Monaca welcomed them, and the robots turned on and move. Monaca talked about how she will destroy everyone's hope. Toko said she did behind everything, and Monaca declared herself as "Junko Enoshima II", and that she will bring Makoto to despair. Toko pushed Komaru out of the way as one of the robots fires a rocket. The robots close in on Toko and Komaru, and Monaca suddenly says she surrendered, declaring hope will win, and detonated the robots, blowing up the top half of her fortress.

Toko and Komaru saw a van and see that Monaca is in it. Toko asked if Monaca wanted to be the Ultimate Despair. Monaca answered that she found the whole hope and despair thing embarrassing, and wants to forget it. Toko demand she tell them everything. Toko and Komaru learned that Monaca wasn't the mastermind, killed the real Miaya Gekkogahara, and knew that a survivor from the Killing School Life might die because of Makoto. Monaca said she knows who, but refuse to tell them. Toko turned into Genocide Jack, but Monaca escapes. Toko and Komaru take control of the fake Miaya Gekkogahara to tell Makoto. Toko contacts Byakuya and also tells him what Monaca said.

Episode 08 - Who Killed Cock Robin 
After contacting Byakuya, Toko joins Komaru, who is currently talking to Makoto. Hearing Komaru support her brother, Toko comments that all their brother-sister talk was giving her goosebumps.

Episode 12 - It is Always Darkest 
Toko and Komaru are seen watching Ryota Mitarai's hope brainwashing video on their laptop back at the hotel.

Side: Hope - The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
Several months after the Final Killing Game, Makoto became the principal of a newly built Hope's Peak Academy and is working alongside Kyoko. Toko and Aoi both helped move boxes of materials, although Toko became exhausted. Komaru offered each of them a drink, Toko responded in thanks and began to drink swiftly.


First Kiss Prank: Toko is thrown into complete darkness. In the distance, Byakuya can be seen, so she begins to run towards him. Suddenly, a huge roller appears between the two of them. Though Toko tries desperately to escape, the roller catches up with her and presses her paper-thin, killing her. This execution is only described in the Danganronpa Visual Fanbook.


Alternate Identities:
Genocide 
Toko dislikes Jack because they share the same body, and she could be accused for Jack's murderous actions. She blames Jack for her isolation from her peers and their uncleanness. She will do anything to keep Jack concealed to prevent her from getting out and killing people. The two share certain traits, such as their obsession with Byakuya and dislike of Yasuhiro and Aoi.

Family:

Kameko was Toko's pet stink bug, and was the one she cared about most, which is shown when she became her Captive. Toko was also the only one who could stand Kameko's stench.

When Kameko's "Hit List" entry is discussed with Hiroko, Toko gets unusually emotional, showing just how strongly she cared for the bug. She is offended when Kameko is called a bug and she calls Kameko her dear insect friend, "a friendsect". She believes that Kameko is a special insect that can understand her feelings, but Hiroko and Komaru make her realize that Kameko is just a normal bug. Nevertheless, Toko misses her pet dearly and wishes to see her again.

Partners:
Komaru 
Toko appears and helps Komaru through the Demon Hunting game. She constantly calls her "Omaru" instead of her real name. During an interview with the crew behind Danganronpa Another Episode, Kodaka states that the game is about "the deepening friendship between Komaru and Toko."

Komaru respects Toko and admires her as a strong, skilled and amazing person, and doesn't even seem to mind her serial killer split personality as she considers her "just a bit strange, that's all", though Toko strongly disagrees and says that she is nothing like that. At first, Toko finds Komaru and her occasional slow-wittedness and gullible nature irritating, along with her tendency to call herself "normal girl" and breaking down crying when things get bad. However, she also gives Komaru support and encourages her to improve during such tough situations. When Toko "officially" agrees to assist Komaru, she hugs Toko in happiness, which makes Toko uncomfortable due to her not being used to physical contact. Toko is also noted to make most of the decisions, due to Komaru being too unsure to do that. She also remains rather silent about many topics, even if she is actually familiar with them. She is also strongly annoyed by Komaru's love for manga, because she hates them.

In Chapter 2, Toko is shown to be suspicious of Shirokuma and appears slightly protective of Komaru due to her gullible nature. After they enter the Resistance's secret base, Toko and Komaru sleep the night in the same bed, though Toko feels cold because Komaru stole her blanket while sleeping. Komaru agrees to assist Shirokuma and the Resistance with newfound confidence, surprising Toko and making her uncomfortable, because she does not want to contact the Future Foundation.

Later, when the two manage to contact Makoto in Chapter 3, Toko even threatens Komaru's life in order to protect Byakuya who is currently the enemy's hostage. After getting out of the building and the danger, the two have a big argument over this, as Toko claims she is serious about her threat if needed. Komaru is shocked that Toko would kill her friends, but Toko just seems to assume that Komaru is only trying to manipulate her with nice words such as "friends". Saddened, Komaru tries to tell Toko that she truly does trust her, and Toko appears to feel slightly bad but stays silent. When Toko accuses Komaru of doing nothing on her own, but Komaru thinks that is way too mean to say, because she has done some things too. Toko asks if Komaru is expecting her to thank her or something and claims she has never done that to anyone. In the heat of the moment, Komaru shouts that is the reason why Toko doesn't have any friends. Toko is shocked and hurt by this, and then tries to claim that she wants to be alone and would rather die alone than be with a coward like Komaru. However, she still continues to follow Komaru to the Resistance's base, claiming that she has to. However, the two remain mostly silent during the whole way back.

When Toko accuses Haiji of cowardice back in the Resistance, Komaru surprisingly speaks back to her, sympathizing with the Resistance's weak people. This seems to shock Toko a bit, as she assumed Komaru would be on her side. Komaru accuses Toko of not understanding the weak and blaming them for it, but Toko says that she simply blames them for using their weakness as an excuse. Toko is angered and offended when Komaru says that she doesn't understand weak people, stating that she is obviously very weak too, but has stopped using it as an excuse and tries to survive. A bit later, after Genocide Jack saves Komaru from Kotoko, Komaru breaks down crying and apologizes for saying horrible things like that Toko doesn't have any friends. The two then make up and work together again.

In Chapter 4, after Nagisa decides to help the two escape, Toko hesitantly seems to be willing to let Komaru go and leave the city. However, the Servant appears and it's revealed that Toko was forced to assist Komaru and bring her to the children's base, so that she can be exchanged with Byakuya. Komaru is shocked to hear that Toko has lied to her the whole time, with Toko obviously feeling very guilty. However, she then continues to speak mean words and even attacks Komaru with the aid of Genocide Jack, but Komaru realizes she isn't being serious and wants to give Komaru a chance to escape and make her own decision. Genocide Jack and Toko then decide to turn against the Servant, claiming that they wish to protect Komaru and Byakuya. In turn, Komaru decides not to hold the supposed betrayal against Toko, as she was forced to do it, and decides to stay with Toko because they are friends. Toko is immensely happy by this and blushes shyly, because she has never had a real friend before. Afterwards, she thanks Komaru very genuinely for the first time and begins to call her Komaru instead of the somewhat insulting nickname Omaru. After this, the two become real friends, with Komaru trying to teach Toko about friendship, with the two still a bit comically bickering at times. Toko begins to be more nice towards Komaru and genuinely considers her an extremely important person to her, rivaling her love for Byakuya. In Chapter 5, Toko has also shyly claimed while blushing that Komaru has made her happy and it's indicated that Komaru has helped Toko's mental state greatly.

In Chapter 5, Toko snaps Komaru out of it in the time of despair, and swears to help Komaru whenever she can't do something on her own just like Komaru would do for her. Toko gives Komaru a very warm, genuine smile and hugs her, which is extremely notable coming from Toko who normally hates hugs and being touched. After defeating Monaca and rescuing Byakuya, the two stay in Towa City to help its people and wait for Makoto. They also keep sleeping in the same bed, though Toko claims that she does that only because of her fear of ghosts.

Komaru and Toko are seen still together in Towa City in Danganronpa 3, with Komaru somewhat unsuccessfully trying to get Toko used to bathing which she fears. They have a mission to defeat Monaca, but it ends in Monaca's surrender and Komaru saving the two of them from falling. Many months later, they are seen building the new Hope's Peak Academy building along with everyone, and Toko gives a very genuine happy smile when Komaru offers her a drink after the hard work.

Komaru is mentioned by Toko in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, when she has to pick her "best friend" for scavenger hunt during Summer's sport festival, and she laments that she can't pick someone who's not there. She then decides to pick Makoto, because their "surnames match", indicating that Komaru is her best friend in this alternative universe as well and that they just obviously don't go to the same school. However, this is translated incorrectly in the official English version, with Toko inaccurately stating she has no best friend and with no mention of the matching surnames.

Class 78th:
Byakuya 
Toko has a one way obsession with Byakuya. Byakuya does not reciprocate her feelings and is annoyed by her behavior. He often commands Toko to do a variety of tasks, which she blindly carries out. She entrusted her secret of Genocide Jack with Byakuya, who traitorously revealed her secret to the rest of the students during the school trial for Chihiro's murder. Despite this, she remained madly in love with him. She defends him if she feels that anyone is insulting him, even when that is obviously not the case.

Even after Byakuya becomes slightly nicer after the Killing School Life, he continues to treat Toko harshly, as she continues to give him unwanted attention. Toko begins to visualize Byakuya being shirtless and imagines her fantasy of being with him as a couple which Byakuya sensed it and feels grossed out. However, he is grateful after she and Komaru rescued him in Another Episode and trusts them to defeat Monaca in Danganronpa 3.

In the Danganronpa V3 bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, her attraction to him is so psychotic, she, very openly, stated that was turned on by the thought of being his doormat.

Aoi 
Toko would usually direct cruel remarks toward Aoi, calling her "stupid swimmer" and "brainless mermaid". Toko was very furious when Aoi slapped Byakuya and began to argue with her the next day about Sakura. She also made many sexual and degrading jabs about her appearance. In spite of this, when her younger brother Yuta dies, Toko is reluctant to deliver the bad news to Aoi, for fear of upsetting her.

Yasuhiro 
Toko considers Yasuhiro an idiot, calling him names like "shitty occult fortunetelling bastard" and "occult idiot". Toko is somewhat jealous that Yasuhiro and Aoi became full members of the Future Foundation before her.

Makoto 
A fellow survivor of the Killing School Life. Toko dislikes Makoto, openly expressing her disapproval of him to Komaru. She accuses him of boasting about his title (Ultimate Hope) which Makoto continually denies. However, Toko sometimes thinks of Makoto as reliable.

Hifumi 
Hifumi appears to think his writing is better than Toko's, making her feel insulted. The two are competitive and often argue over whose writing is better.

Kyoko 
Fellow survivor of the Killing School Life and member of the Future Foundation. Unlike the other survivors of the killing game Toko and Kyoko have no notable opinion of each other.

Warriors of Hope:
Kotoko 
Originally enemies, Genocide Jack saves Kotoko from the hands of the Monokuma kids. During their confrontation with Monaca, Kotoko defends Toko from Haiji, who was attacking her.

Towa City Residents:

Toko first finds Shirokuma after saving him from other Monokuma Units. When she first saw Shirokuma she thought he was just like all the other Monokumas. Toko doesn't seem to trust Shirokuma very much due to him being a Monokuma Unit. Shirokuma is very kind to her and always tries to be gentle and help her. Despite being very nice to her, she is very mean to Shirokuma calling him by names and treating him like all the other Monokumas. She gets carried away when ever Shirokuma says something that she is interested about.

Hiroko 
Hiroko and Toko appear to be friends to some extent, Hiroko calling Toko "Fufu" ("Fukawachi" in the Japanese version). Unlike with Komaru, Hiroko uses her last name; when Toko asks for an explanation, Hiroko brushes it off by saying that either name works.

Yuta 
Toko travels with Yuta for a short time. Noticing that he shared the same surname as Aoi, Toko was able to quickly identify him as Aoi's younger brother, and makes jabs at him that were similar to the ones she made of Aoi. However, Toko appears worried about Yuta while he is swimming past the limits, watching him fearfully.

Haiji 
Toko faked a sexual attraction to Haiji, hoping her "female charm" would convince him to disclose more information about the Warriors of Hope and the situation in Towa City, though it's also implied that it may have been partially genuine. However, she soon found out that he's a coward and was openly disrespectful towards him, calling him "a mole man" for hiding underground. After Komaru mentioned her intentions to contact Future Foundations and noted that Toko was a member, Haiji immediately became sour towards Komaru and Toko.

At one point, Haiji mentioned that he doesn't have sexual interest in Toko, as she isn't his type (she is older and "noisy"). After this information was revealed, Toko suspects that Haiji might try to harass Komaru and is protective of her.

The two continue to nag at each other thorough the later game, with Haiji always referring to Toko as "Four Eyes" and often appearing willing to ignore or even leave her behind. He later physically attacks Toko and threatens to hurt her more in order to get the Monokumas' controller.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Toko Fukawa & School Mode/Toko Fukawa
During Free Time, Makoto can choose to talk to Toko in order to learn more about her. If he gives Toko a present that she likes, and chooses the correct response during their conversation, their friendship level will increase and Toko will disclose something about herself. Each successful Free Time conversation adds a page to Toko's Report Card in the e-Handbook menu, and grants either a skill that will give Makoto an advantage during class trial battles, or an increase in Skill Points.

1Chap. 223456
Toko Fukawa Report Card Page 1

Most Effective Conversation Prompts
Young adult	Non-fiction	Romance
A scenic drive	Window shopping	A movie
Bildungsroman	I-Don't-Know	I-Novel
Preferred MonoMono Machine Presents:
DR1 Present 17 Everlasting Bracelet DR1 Present 25 Glasses DR1 Present 46 Rose in Vitro DR1 Present 47 Cherry Blossom Bouquet DR1 Present 59 Old Antique Doll DR1 Present 71 Maiden's Handbag DR1 Present 84 Novelist's Fountain Pen


Becoming friends with students grants Makoto special skills which can aid him during Class Trials. Becoming close with Toko grants the following skills:

Vocabulary	Increases damage when a statement is destroyed.
Effective during the Bullet Time Battle.	3 SP
Dorm 
Dorm Room Toko FukawaMakoto is able to see inside Toko's dorm room during Free Time events. Her room is covered in huge stacks of books. She has covered her bolted windows with pages of her manuscripts. She has two vases of flowers and a flower shaped doily on her table.

DR1ExtraDRAEDR3
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc (English)

Prologue:

"N-Not that you'll remember my n-name anyway, but... I'm T-Toko... Toko Fukawa."
"Wh-What? I-It's not polite to stare, you know. Stop staring at me like I'm some filthy creature!"
"I-I know what you "just" thought...! You just thought you've n-never seen such an ugly woman. You just th-thought it was sooo funny...!"
"Don't bother trying to l-lie to me! I know it's true. Otherwise, you... I know you can't stand looking at me! Wh-Whatever, I don't really care. I'm used to it..."
Chapter 1:

"Your mind is as th-thin as your body. You m-make me sick to my s-stomach..."
"Haven't you b-been listening!? Looking around was a t-total waste of t-time! We d-din't find a way out, didn't f-find out who's behind this. We still have no idea what's g-going on!"
"Me hanging ouut w-with two people who have muscles where th-their brains should be is not by ch-choice!"
"S-Stop trying to drag me farther into y-your meat dimension!"
"Everyone says they'll work together, but in our hearts we're all afraid someone might betray us..."
"I h-hate romantic comedies like this. I don't care what h-happens to her, personally..."
"Wh-What? Is it s-so awful to be l-late?"
"Being s-so insistent, even though you obviously k-killed her... Very i-impressive..."
"Why d-do you say that? Is it b-because you think I'm u-ugly...?"
"P-Plus...she *was* the Ultimate Pop Sensation... A t-toally forgettable kid, o-or a national superstar... Who are you m-more likely to believe?"
"Of course we can't cut f-free of the outside world! Being trapped in this insane p-place...!"
Chapter 2:

"Plus, most "fanfic" is j-just porn drawn by a bunch of a-amateurs..."
"And w-with a face like yours, anyone can tell n-nothing you do is worthwhile."
"Stop trying to one-up e-everyone..." (to Kiyotaka)
"S-Something might've happened, right? Being alone r-right now might not be safe... As long as I'm w-with the sports idiot... ...if something d-does happen, I'm sure she'd jump in without th-thinking and take the fall..."
"Well, it's n-not like anyone would care even if I w-was gone, right...? Actually, I bet you all *w-want* me gone! You all think I'm d-disgusting! You think I d-don't know, but I do... You want me g-gone! And I'm s-sure...the rest of you want the same th-thing, don't you!?"
"W-Well I already know I'm annoying. I came here kn-knowing that, so...that makes it o-okay..."
"Hey, um...Byakuya? Remember how you said, "Don't be a woman who dominates w-weak men. Be a woman dominated by a s-strong man"?"
"That's t-true. There's really no w-way to know... But the distance between u-us doesn't change our love...! Because as soon as you realize your feelings, the love is born. That's h-how love works! There m-might come a day when y-you understand. Maybe. S-Someday."
"The world has a front and a back, a top inning and a bottom, a sea of truth and a web of lies!"
"I...! I won't let Genocide Jack have control ever again!"
"Don't go assigning adjectives to my t-tone without permission..." (to Kiyotaka)
Chapter 3:

"Why does e-everyone keep making fun of me...? I hope you all win the l-lottery and get hit by a b-bus..."
"How rude... A maggot like you has no right to speak that way to our heaven-sent Master...!"
Chapter 4:

"If it's wh-what Master wants, I'd do anything h-he asks."
"Byakuya said he...l-likes a girl to have some meat o-on her bones, so... I'm g-gonna start eating! I'm gonna force it d-down into my stomach! I'm gonna eat till I d-drop!"
"Ah! It's a-amazing! Indecent ideas are c-coming to me one after another!"
"Sorry sorry sorry sorry! Don't hit me don't hit me don't hit me don't hit me! If you w-wanna hit someone, hit Master. Please h-hit him. Oh, please *please* let me w-watch you hit him!"
"Wh-Wh-Wh-Why are you all ganging up on me! You're all nothing but v-v-v-vermin!"
Chapter 5:

"I'll follow you a-anywhere, Master! To all ends of the E-Earth!"
"Oh. Then...I don't mind b-breathing in the carbon dioxide you exhale. That's enough for m-me to live..."
"Master told you h-he trusts you? MASTER t-told you that! Well d-don't let it go to your head!"
"Now do you u-understand, you useless insect!? You're banned from t-talking to Master ever again!"
"Master's g-going around all this stuff... It's like an all-you-can-watch buffet..."
"Y-YOU'RE weird...! Weird in every p-possible. And not j-just weird... Super weird!"
"If you're l-lying, you'll die a cruel and unusual d-death...!"
"Usually, when there's a s-scene where an important character dies, it has a lot m-more detail..." (About Mukuro)
"By d-denying the sprinkler....are you trying to deny my e-entire existence!?"
"I'd love to s-scoop out that nasty brain of yours, throw it on the g-ground, and spit on it!"
"Talking back to Master... You have no r-right!"
"It's similar to Aesop's fable about the bundle of sticks... One stick is weak, but put them together, and they become strong. It's meant to teach cooperation."
Chapter 6:

"Ugh, you s-stink...! Are you rotten!? Rotten ph-physically, mentally, every way you can b-be rotten!"
"Without Master, the r-rest of you are like... ...coffee with cream w-without the cream! Or c-coffee! You're totally useless!"
"Am I so d-disgusting you want me out of y-your sight?"
"I don't want that! I'm sick of a-always being looked down! Why w-won't anyone accept me...?"
"I'm not weird, okay!? At least l-listen to what I have to say b-before you deny me!"
"It's not like y-you're an endangered species or somethinG! How l-long do you plan to keep hiding?"
"Yeah! Master's way more p-perfect! Cuz on top of everything else, he's got that n-noble blood!" (To Junko)
"Are y-you telling me to swap places...w-with HER!? N-No! Absolutely not! That'd be like f-forfeiting my entire identity!"
Epilogue:

"I-I'll go with you! I'll follow you anywhere you w-want to go!"
"I d-don't know why, but...I have a b-burning desire to start writing...! I might b-be able to pull it off... A story about M-Master and me! A-And the others, I guess..."
Bullet Time Battle:

"It's a l-lie!"
"I admit n-nothing!"
"I h-hate you!"
"I curse you!"
"Shut up...!"
"N-No no no!"
"I d-don't know anything!"
"That's en-nough!"
"A-are you trying to blame me?!"
"I'm r-right about this!"
"Hold on...!"
"Hiding i-in the rec room? Don't be r-r-ridiculous!" (Final Argument, Fourth trial)
"H-how can you say it wasn't the s-sprinkler?!" (Final Argument, Fifth trial)
Creation and 
Toko Fukawa Beta Designs 1.2 Reload Artbook
According to the series' creator, Kazutaka Kodaka, Toko represents the games' worldview the most.
Probably the character most different from the first impression players get, she's based on the literary girl the creators had since the first planning stages, who turned into such an intense character in the end.

Together with Genocide Jack, she has the most facial expressions in the first game. The process for deciding on facial expressions in the game involved first making rough designs for expressions requested by Kodaka, and then, after reading the actual script, adding more expressions in case there aren't enough. There isn't a single character who ended up with less expressions than was originally requested. "In other words, I just ignored the project's schedule by adding more expressions for every character", the character designer Rui Komatsuzaki states, "I felt the pressure most in Toko's case - she had a lot of expressions to begin with but I still thought there weren't enough".

Toko is Rui Komatsuzaki's favorite character in the first game.


Toko's last name (腐川 Fukawa) consists of the characters for "rotten" and "river". 腐 fu is also the first character in the word Fujoshi (腐女子; a girl who enjoys reading manga featuring male homoerotic relationships), a term Genocide Jack used to describe herself.
"Toko" (冬子) consists of 冬 - "winter" and 子 - "child".
Toko's birthday, March 3, coincides with Japan's Girl's Day.
Toko suffers from a pathological fear of the dark, blood, and ghosts.
Toko had one father and two mothers that she lived with before the events of the first game.
It can be assumed about Toko's two mothers that one is Japanese while the other might be from a western country. Evidence of that can be found during School Mode: when asking Toko about which breakfast she prefers, "Japanese or western", she'll mention one of her mothers liked Japanese while the other liked Western.
The most common cause for Dissociative identity disorder (abbreviated 'DID') is severe psychological trauma or stress experienced during early childhood.
The reason for her fear of the dark, which she reveals to Komaru in the Ultra Despair Girls, strongly insinuates she was maltreated as a child.
In one of her free time events, she made a reference to a famous Japanese filmmaker, Seijun Suzuki and his three masterpieces: Tokyo Drifter, Fighting Elegy and Branded to Kill.
It is implied that Toko does not take showers often. In Danganronpa 3, she even appears to be afraid of bathing. Her pet stink bug obviously doesn't help the matter.
It's revealed during Toko's free time events that after Makoto suggested to her to write a novel "from her heart", she immediately finished it as an I-Novel. According to Makoto, Toko's I-Novel is the best writing he has ever read, and it will be a shocking masterpiece because of its super dark story that will change the face of I-Novel.
04-22
Toko in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent.

In Danganronpa Another Episode, Toko's "terrified" sprite is surprisingly similar to that of Kazuichi Soda from Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair.
Toko is the only character so far to be a major character in two games.
Toko appears as a guest character in Chain Chronicle: Brave New Continent. Her Max ATK is 7240 while her Max HP is 5740. Her weapon is "the fountain pen of the literary master" and its ability is doubled attack power. Her deathblow is called "Delusion Dream". It recovers the allies' HP a bit and cures debilitating conditions.
Toko is the only surviving member of the Killing School Life not to be granted full membership to the Future Foundation and is instead an intern (研究生 Research Student)

Jataro is an elementary school-aged boy. He wears a stitched together leather mask that may double as a gas mask, evidence being the breathing tube hanging below his chin. He has gray eyes, with a scalpel pattern as the iris. When his mask is removed, it is revealed that he has a beautiful face and light brown hair.

He wears a baggy brown dress shirt with a red tie, orange-brown shorts and a brown apron; the apron has the silver Warriors of Hope badge pinned to the breast and his various tools attached to it. He also carries a white randoseru decorated with a flame motif and filled with more tools. His apron, tool set and randoseru are branded with the emblem of the "Priest" class.

According to the creators, Jataro's character image and color design is supposed to look "dirty", which is the complete opposite of a priest that focuses on "cleanliness".


Jataro has an incredible talent for anything seen as creative, such as drawing, painting and sculpting. He is also shown to be quiet, shy and scatter-brained. The official artbook describes him as "curious, crafty, and fascinated by dark and disturbing things".

Jataro is acknowledged by both himself and those around him for being hated, and he seems content with that fact. He has a tendency to blame himself for things that have nothing to do with him, as well as repeatedly apologizing and putting himself down. He believes that his face is horribly ugly and he panics if anyone wants to see it, claiming that seeing his face would make people's eyeballs explode.

Jataro's thoughts are disorganized and off-topic, some being innocent and some not, and he often has difficulties following conversations. He is shown to have some sort of mental or emotional instability, which becomes evident when he lapses into his episodes of rambling. He describes these ramblings as "yawns", things that come out of his mouth involuntarily and nobody can understand them, not even him. He calls them just "killing of time" and "distraction from the horrors around you".

Jataro's presence is often largely ignored, though he states later to Komaru and Toko that being ignored is something that he doesn't like. After Nagisa Shingetsu becomes impatient during his introduction and interrupts him, Jataro becomes visibly distraught and mumbles how his skin was 'beginning to crawl and itch' and how he wished to 'tear it all off.'

Despite the constant self-deprecation, Jataro is self-described as being a cheerful kid (though he admits that he may not understand what "cheerful" means), helpful to his friends and willing to comply with whatever they ask of him while remaining relatively upbeat.

It's later revealed that Jataro's acceptance of hate is a coping mechanism he developed against the constant abuse in his home life. He also believes that it's easier to be hated, because it leaves him free to do what he wants without worrying about pleasing people.


Li'l Ultimate 
Jataro is very skilled in the arts and is also very creative. He can create many amazing sculptures and can draw and paint as well. During his introduction, he is shown to be surrounded with sculptures and paintings, referencing his talent. He carries around chisels, scalpels, and knives as his sculpturing tools.

In other 
Jataro's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Another Episode.

Li'l Ultimate Art
Title	English Translation
日本語超小学生級の「図工の時間」	Super Elementary School Level Drawing Period
한국어초 초등학생 급 공작 시간	Super Elementary Class Work Time
‪中文(台灣)‬超小學生級的美勞課	Super Elementary Students' Level Art & Labor Class

Prior to the Tragedy 
Jataro was born and raised in Towa City. He was a child prodigy and had an incredible talent for anything seen as creative, such as drawing, painting and sculpting.

Jataro is described by Kotoko Utsugi as a latchkey kid. Jataro's parents weren't around much and when they were, there was constant verbal abuse.

Jataro's mother regretted giving birth to him, because there were several things she wanted to do in life (like obtaining qualifications and licenses, take lessons and work more), but couldn't after having her son. She was bitter, because she felt her life had become nothing more than a platform for his life. Every night, she wished her son would be dead in the next morning, and she sighed from disappointment because he wasn't. She wished he would stop being healthy and disappear. She also hated the fact that Jataro's face was beautiful, as if it was some reason to take care of him, and would've preferred him to be ugly. Jataro was forced to wear a mask and his mother was ashamed to show him to anyone, telling him that he doesn't look like other kids. This caused Jataro to believe that he truly is very ugly.

Jataro started to accept hate so readily because he had adapted his "peaceful place" in order to cope with the constant abuse in his home life. He made himself believe that being hated makes him have a peace of mind, so he can always be at peace even when he is abused. He believed that it was necessary, because he knew his home life wasn't going to get better.

Jataro was also part of Hope's Peak Elementary School. He was on the class of troublemakers along with Monaca, Nagisa Shingetsu, Kotoko Utsugi and Masaru Daimon.

Although Jataro was on the verge of committing suicide along with the other four kids, Junko Enoshima appeared and convinced the children that the adults were wrong and that they should create a paradise for children. Jataro murdered his parents shortly after, and did not regret it.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Prologue - The Warriors of Hope 
Jataro is first seen in the news reporting room, where he messes around with the newscaster's corpse along with Masaru Daimon and Kotoko Utsugi. He questions if zombies really growl like Masaru had done, but is quickly shut up by him. He proceeds to join in their game by helping push the 'zombie' along in its chair to chase after Kotoko and Nagisa who tries to stop them by told them that the broadcast is important to announce about the Warriors of Hope commencement at first. After Monaca began her speech, Jataro moved behind the camera to shoot Monaca.

He is later seen with the other Warriors of Hope in the main hall, talking about his status as "Li'l Ultimate Art". When Monaca arrives, he moved out of the way for her to greet Komaru. Not long after Servant arrives, Jataro and the other Warriors of Hope opens a trap door, resulting in Komaru falling through and back down into Towa City. Excluding Monaca, the Warriors of Hope each discuss the 'game' and claiming that they will be the winner. Jataro mutters how the 'game' and real life were two seperate things so 'maybe someone as hated as me could win.' Kotoko shows disgust at his 'rare motivation'.

Chapter 2 - Legend of the 
After Masaru's supposed death, he is seen alongside Kotoko and Monaca in mourning. During the time Masaru fought against Komaru and Toko, he stated that Masaru had locked him in the bathroom, and Jataro was useless for that reason, for not being able to sacrifice himself in Masaru's place. Jataro later teases Nagisa alongside Kotoko after he admits to Monaca that he has feelings for her.

Following Masaru's death, he is seen through a television monitor in order to give Komaru and Toko some advice. He warns Komaru about how, as long as she's wearing the wristband, she won't be able to leave the city—then proceeds to show them what he does with the Demons he kills. Later, he finds Komaru and Toko when they attempt to enter Towa Tower and ambushes them with Monokuma. Then, he challenged Toko and Komaru officially in an arena match. After being beaten, like Masaru, the Monokuma Kids grabbed and pulled him in. In his execution, his mask is removed, and soon after, he is supposedly beaten to death. In the end, all that is left is his mask.

It is stated after Jataro's own 'death' that Jataro personally built the mourning shrine for Masaru; Monaca then uses this as an excuse to not build Jataro a mourning shrine.


An image during the s called "Children After The Story" shows that Jataro, Nagisa, Kotoko and Masaru are all alive and together.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
Jataro and the other Warriors of Hope members excluding Monaca were briefly shown at the beginning of the episode as the Servant surrendered himself to the Warriors of Hope.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair 
Jataro and the other Warriors of Hope are seen hiding in a hotel. Nagisa is on the phone, telling Toko and Komaru how to find Monaca while Jataro and the others watch in silence.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Jataro appears as a cameo in the OVA, shown having fun with the other members of Warriors of Hope.


Main Article: Punishment of the Priest

Warriors of Hope:

Kurokuma was Jataro's advisor. However, there was no direct in-game interaction between the two.


Like everyone else, Jataro respected Monaca. He refers to her as a princess. Monaca, however, clearly disliked him and often pretended to forget Jataro's name or even who he is. She had a habit of ignoring his presence completely. During his boss fight, he states that his motivation for winning is so Monaca will be even further disgusted by him.

After Jataro's supposed death, Monaca and Kotoko both admit that neither cared for his death, and that they mutually hated him.

It's later revealed that Jataro, along with Masaru, Nagisa and Kotoko, were used as pawns by Monaca, who is revealed to not care about any of them.

Nagisa 
Though Nagisa largely ignores Jataro and is annoyed by his ramblings, he doesn't seem to harbor the same sort of hate for him that the others do and he truly cared about him, just like he cared about all the Warriors.

A bonus CG towards the very end of the game reveals a maskless Jataro holding tightly to Nagisa's arm. This may imply that Jataro sees Nagisa as a comforting figure, which would make sense, as Nagisa is the nicest towards him.

In the official artbook, Nagisa tells Jataro that he should fight only in the Demon Hunting game, not with himself. This appears to be genuine advice and expression of concern.

Masaru 
Masaru doesn't seem to be verbally mean to Jataro and largely ignores him. However, he sometimes seems to enjoy bossing him around, telling him to do things like buying him a Cola (as mentioned in the official artbook).

It seems Masaru also liked to play pranks on Jataro, as he once locked him in the bathroom.

Despite his treatment, Jataro seemed to genuinely respect and admire Masaru and even wanted to make an altar for him. After Masaru's supposed death, Jataro seemed truly saddened and wished he would've died instead.

Kotoko 
Kotoko is arguably the cruelest to Jataro, insulting him at every chance she gets and having a lot of fun while doing it. After Jataro's supposed death, Kotoko and Monaca both admit that neither cared for his death, and that they mutually hated him.

Ultimate Despair Members:
Junko 
Jataro, like the other four, have a special respect and love for Junko. She stopped their joint-suicide by means of jumping off the elementary school's roof and convinced them to not only kill the source of their despair, their parents, but to create a paradise for children by murdering all adults. He addressees her as 'Big Sister Junko'.

Jataro later confesses to Komaru and Toko that Junko was the only person who had ever shown him affection and love, which gives him a motive against the Future Foundation and adults such as them.

It's implied that Jataro has a childlike crush on Junko, going by the art display of him as the Frog Prince and her as the princess, and the painting of her he has in his room.

Quotes 
"Ah—wait... can I practice my introduction beforehand? You know how when you stare into moving bicycle spokes, you get all scared? Like, for some reason, you imagine how painful it would be to put your hand in...Oh, um, my name is Jataro Kemuri. And bird skin isn't yummy no matter how you cook it. I was really good at arts and crafts, so they called me Li'l Ultimate Art. If it's arts and crafts, leave it to me. I can remove nails, and varnish, and things...I do the Priest thing for the Warriors of Hope...Oh, and also, I wonder if aliens exist."
"We're a party of heroes that hunt down Demons... But nobody really wants me in the group..."
"I should have been the one to die. Might as well. That's how it feels... Like you're trying to hide that you actually think I should have died, cuz no one likes me ...But I agree with you. It would be much better for the hated one to die instead of the leader of the Warriors of Hope..."
"O Heaven, change my words to life, give mercy to the lost soul! Haaaiyaaa!"
"Ahhh, oh no! This is such a bother... What if my good image is soiled by this? What if people avoid me all the time, and I can split them like Moses? ...Oh. That actually sounds pretty good..."
"Yeah... I should remember to just focus on hunting Demons. And also to always brush my teeth."
"Huh? Gross? I dunno, I think I'm a cheerful kid... Oh, maybe I... I just don't understand what "cheerful" is? Then I apologize. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. From the bottom of my heart, I'm so sorry. I beg you, forgive me, I'm sorry."
"...Huh? You don't forgive me? If you don't forgive me, does that mean... You hate me? Well, maybe not. Maybe you're just teasing me, like boys who tease the girls they like... I mean, if you guys are little boy lovers and just wanna love me till you go crazy..."
"This whole thing is just killing time. Just a distraction from the horrors around you. You guys must be pretty laid back if you're actually interested in what I'm saying ...As expected of Demons."
""Some things are better left unknown"... Adults say that all the time. It would be better for Mr. Pig if he didn't find out he was about to be bacon... It doesn't change the fact that Mr. Pig is gonna die. So isn't it better not to tell him?"
"That's right, just keep hating me. All you have to do is hate me. I'm from the Hate Planet, where being hated makes you feel good. And it's easier to just be hated."
"It doesn't really matter... After all, I have so much fun now compared to before. I should thank Mr. and Mrs. Demons. I want to say, "Thank you for teaching me that I'm nothing but ugly, nasty, worthless filth." I live like filth, surrounded by filth! Inside this paradise, where no adults can get in the way!"
"N-No, you can't see! Anything but that! If you see my face, your eyeballs are gonna rot off! It's the truth! They're really gonna burn right off! I-If they don't, then... Then why did she force me to wear this mask? Why was I forced to wear this stuffy mask every single day!? I'm just that horrible... I'm just so ugly and hated... More than anyone else on Earth. I bet my head just got really twisted cuz the doctor pulled too hard when I was born... And then, my skin pores got all crushed, and my hair got ripped, and my face got pulled... And my ears are just barely sticking to my face, like meatloaf thrown up onto a wall... And my lips are inside-out, and my gums are dry and rotten and brown... And my nose is just a shriveled little lump of meat... It must be horrible! That's why she was ashamed to show me to people! "You don't look like other kids." That must be what she was talking about... If you see such an awful face, your eyeballs are gonna get crushed and you'll faint!"
"I'm so happy! If I'm hated this much, then there's no point in faking friendships and trying to be liked... I'm free... to do anything I want."
Battle phrases:

"Serial Killer Bomb Punishment!"
"Killing Spree Bomb Punishment!"
"Stalker Bomb Punishment."
"Ultimate attack! Mass Murder Bomb Punishment!"
"Dirty Demons get sterilized!"
"Even cut up into pieces, you'd make such a pretty work of art!"
"Th-There's no way the Warriors of Hope... Will lose to a Demon..."
"That's it, hate me! Hate me more! Abuse me with your dirty words..."
"If *I* win the "Demon Hunting"... I think Monaca would be pretty disappointed... Ah, I want to drink day-old cocoa, and have Monaca look at me like a piece of filth..."
"A gun? How did you get that? That doesn't seem very nice, a Demon using a gun like that..."

"Jataro" (蛇太郎) is composed of the kanji 蛇 - "snake", 太 - "plump" (figuratively used in names as "healthy") and 郎 -"son". The name could refer to Jataro's patchy mask which is somewhat reminiscent of reptile scales. The name "Kemuri" (煙) used here as a surname is also a noun meaning "smoke" or "fumes" - matching both Jataro's color scheme and his title; since some artistic crafts involve the risk of exposure to toxic fumes.
After his "death", Kotoko and Monaca refer to Jataro as 'Snake-chan'; though, due to their mutual hate of him, it is most likely an insult.
It's implied that Jataro has experience with both building and repairing things, like broken chairs and a funeral shrine.
Jataro stated in the Prologue he would like to drive a train one day.
Jataro shares his English voice actress, Michelle Ruff, with Yuta Asahina.

↑ 1.0 1.1 Danganronpa Wiki: DRAE Korean/Chinese Language Translation Project Thread. Translated by User:加藤 恵 & User:St4r dust.

 [show] v • e
GAME CHARACTERS
 [show] v • e
ANIME CHARACTERS
Categories:
Maintenance:Article Stubs Characters Danganronpa Another Episode Characters Danganronpa 3 Characters Super Danganronpa 2.5 Characters Former Warriors of Hope Former Antagonists Killers Male Alive Survived Execution Killing Game Survivors Maintenance: Article Revamp Add category
Languages:
Español  Français  Polski  Русский
Recent Wiki Activity
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Monokuma
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Leon Kuwata
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Celestia Ludenberg
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Chiaki Nanami
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago








	Being adorbs isn't always a good thing. Cute girls go through terrible things... And if you're adorable too, you have to protect yourself. On your own. If you can't, you have to take whatever they give you. It's a shitty rule, but I didn't make it. Adults did... So be prepared for that life.

— Danganronpa Another Episode
"
Kotoko Utsugi (空木 言子 Utsugi Kotoko), leads the "Fighter" Class as a member of the Warriors of Hope and is one of the instigators of Demon Hunting featured in Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls. Her title is Li'l Ultimate Drama (超小学生級の「学芸会の時間」chō shōgakusei kyū no "gakugeikai no jikan" lit. Super Elementary School Level Arts Festival Period).

Contents[hide]
Appearance
Personality
Skills and Abilities
Li'l Ultimate Drama
In other languages
History
Prior to the Tragedy
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls
Prologue - The Warriors of Hope
Chapter 2 - Legend of the Revolution
Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's Battlefield
Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl
Aftermath
Ultra Despair Hagakure
Chapter 3
Chapter 5
Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc
Episode 01 - Third Time's the Charm
Episode 07 - Ultra Despair Girls
Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no Hakaimono
Execution
Relationships
Kurokuma
Monaca
Jataro Kemuri
Masaru Daimon
Nagisa Shingetsu
Junko Enoshima
Toko Fukawa/Genocide Jack
Kanon Nakajima
Quotes
Trivia
References
Navigation

Kotoko is most likely an 11-12 year old girl.

She has very long pink hair tied into pigtails and matching pink eyes with speech bubbles acting as the irises. She wears a pink hairband with horns, which is branded with the emblem of the "Fighter" class.

She wears a frilled white shirt with a matching black jacket and skirt which both have pink accents. The jacket has the silver Warriors of Hope badge. She also wears mismatched pink thigh-high socks, and boots.

The creators have mentioned that she has unusual proportions and quite long limbs, which makes her more adult-like.


Kotoko is a hot-headed girl who loves "adorbs" things. She collects them and seems even slightly obsessed with the concept.

Kotoko also has an odd speech pattern as she often starts to list off-topic facts she finds interesting in the middle of conversation. Sometimes they're vaguely related to the topic (for example, if the topic is too long speeches, she starts to talk about how things like elephant's nose and giraffe necks are also too long). Even still, her speech is clear and focused, unlike in the case of Jataro Kemuri.

Kotoko acts cheerful, polite and happy. However, she is mentioned to have a bullying nature and she can be very mean and cruel. She is very mean to Jataro, even more than the others are, and she likes to tease Nagisa Shingetsu. However, she constantly tries to stay on Monaca's good side and praises her a lot.

Kotoko seemingly loved her stage life, but she doesn't like to talk about it and considers it a thing far in the past. She was pampered a lot and now has quite strict, demanding personality. She also has a habit of curtsying and being rather dramatic, which also hints at her past as an actress. It's actually heavily implied that a lot of Kotoko's behavior is just an act and, being the former Li'l Ultimate Drama, she is very skilled at acting. The official artbook implies that her "cutesy" personality might be a front created as a coping mechanism and she herself mentions that she has to keep acting or else she becomes miserable.

Kotoko is one of the more intelligent members of the group, capable of acting cunning and understanding things a bit faster than some other kids. She was able to trick Monaca with her acting and began to act more independently after Monaca was revealed to be a traitor. Still, even though she never really liked Monaca, she was manipulated by Junko to the point that she truly believed she cared about her and the others.

Due to her trauma caused by sexual abuse, Kotoko has a trigger for the word "gentle" (優しい yasashii), as the men who abused her had said they would be "gentle". When she hears this word, she becomes neurotic, and begins crying and screaming in fear, unable to calm herself down except when somebody tells her that they will not be gentle with her. Supposedly because of Junko's teachings, she wants to make other "adorbs" girls suffer what she went through, exclusively the older ones she considers Demons. She is bitter because nobody helped her in the past and thus very paranoid of adults, believing they're all pedophiles.

Skills and 
Li'l Ultimate 
Kotoko was an extremely talented child actress who was very popular due to her cuteness. She also performed in plays as well. During her introduction, she is shown to perform as a lead character in a play.

Kotoko has very good acting skills, as she was able to deceive Monaca into thinking that she liked her, when in reality Kotoko hated Monaca.

In other 
Kotoko's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Another Episode.

Li'l Ultimate Drama
Title	English Translation
日本語超小学生級の「学芸会の時間」	Super Elementary School Level Arts Festival Period
한국어초 초등학생 급 학예회 시간	Super Elementary Class Play Time
‪中文(台灣)‬超小學生級的學藝會	Super Elementary Students' Level Drama Club

Prior to the Tragedy 
Kotoko was born and raised in Towa City. She was a child prodigy and a famous child actor whose father was a dentist.

When she was about 10 years old, her parents prostituted her to producers where she was repeatedly raped by them. Her mother did it out of a twisted form of parental love and prostituted herself alongside Kotoko as a "mother and daughter set", believing that this was in her daughter's best interests and that it would help further Kotoko's career, make her "sparkle forever" and have the spotlight. Kotoko's mother saw youth as a great, horrifying power, a one that should be used in your advantage when you still could. She didn't care if Kotoko and the society would hate her, as she believed that her actions were completely right. As a result of the trauma, she ended up developing a breakdown trigger to the word "gentle", a euphemism the producers had used to describe their rape.

Kotoko wanted to be a normal child and didn't want to "sparkle", but she endured it all and didn't complain for the sake of her mother, because making her mother cry would've hurt Kotoko the most. Kotoko's father, on the other hand, used the money they gained for his own benefit, was cheating on his wife with his dental hygienist and overall didn't seem to care about his family at all.

Kotoko was also part of Hope's Peak Elementary School and she was put on the class of troublemakers along with Monaca Towa, Nagisa Shingetsu, Jataro Kemuri and Masaru Daimon.

Although Kotoko was on the verge of committing suicide along with the others, Junko Enoshima appeared and convinced the children that the adults were wrong and that they should create a paradise for children. Shortly afterward, she murdered her parents. She tells Komaru that she does not regret it, and that they should have died more times.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Prologue - The Warriors of Hope 
Kotoko was first seen in the news reporting room, where she messes around with the dead newscaster's corpse along with Jataro and Masaru. She pretended to be scared by running around screaming. Monaca, one of the Warriors of Hope, appeared and makes a speech to the cameras while Kotoko watches from the side.

Kotoko is later seen with the other Warriors of Hope in the main hall, explaining her status as "Li'l Ultimate Drama." When Monaca arrives, she moved out of the way for her to greet Komaru. Not long after Servant arrives and set the Monokuma Bracelet to Komaru, Kotoko and the other Warriors of Hope opens a trap door, resulting in Komaru falling through and back down into Towa City. She expresses her interest in winning the Demon Hunting game, and insults Jataro when he expresses wanting to win as well.

Chapter 2 - Legend of the Revolution 
Along with Monaca and Jataro, they made a shrine for him and mourned Masaru's death. When Monaca begins to cry, Kotoko mimics her. When Nagisa begins to question Monaca, Kotoko shows her unwavering support by challenging him alongside her and Jataro. She then teases him alongside Jataro when he reveals his feelings to Monaca.

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's Battlefield 
Kotoko is seen with Monaca in Kurokuma's hall. She wonders if they should hold another funeral, but without Jataro to build a shrine and neither of them liking Jataro, they decide not to. Possibly influenced by Nagisa's previous outburst, she wonders aloud if Jataro really had died, because there is no body to confirm. Rather than manipulate Kotoko like Monaka had done with Nagisa, she knowingly triggers Kotoko into a panic attack using her "NG word" against her. She then psyches her up again, refueling her rage for adults.

Kotoko goes to the adult's resistance base and breaks Komaru out of her cell, tricking her into thinking that she would be let go. She kidnaps Komaru and plans to "exploit" her in the same way that she had been, but Genocide Jack appears shortly after to save her. Kotoko then challenges the two girls in an arena, a battle in which she loses, but before the Monokuma Kids take her away, Jack saves her.

Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl 
Later, Kotoko is seen being stranded hanging on a pole while Beast Monokumas surround her below. After Komaru and Toko save her, she thanks them and runs away. She then appears when Komaru is making the decision to break the Monokuma controller, saying that she should not. When Toko stops Komaru from breaking the controller and Haiji Towa attacks Toko, Kotoko steps in to save her savior. After the building collapses, Kotoko walks past an injured Monaca, whom she leaves after chiding.


An image during the s called "Children After The Story" shows that Kotoko, Nagisa, Masaru and Jataro are all alive and together.

Ultra Despair 
Chapter 3
Kotoko found Yasuhiro Hagakure and Kanon Nakajima near the destroyed bridge with her Fighter robot, who attempts to attack them. However, Kanon is very strong and immediately subjugates Kotoko, throws away her controller and ties her hands with her knee-socks. She tries to get information out of Kotoko and she tells them that Towa Group is responsible for kidnapping the Captives, but the Group also betrayed Junko at the worst possible time. Suddenly, Masaru comes to help Kotoko with his Hero robot. Hiro would like to run, but Kanon decides to fight as she wants more answers. Unfortunately, Kanon is out of ammo, so the two escape by running.

Chapter 5
Kotoko appears with her robot inside the tunnel and she knocks Kanon off of Hiro. Kanon avoids the robot's hits at first, but her right leg gets badly injured. Hiro is very afraid, but his conscience tells him to help Kanon before she ends up killed. He tells his own fortune again and sees himself, fallen into despair as he stands over Kanon's body. Soon, Kanon appears to be unable to move, and Kotoko steps off of her robot to taunt her. She calls Kanon adorbs and starts to molest her with her "portable motivation machine". Meanwhile, Hiro starts up an electric train and it moves towards Kanon and Kotoko at great speed. Kotoko flattens herself up against the wall and tries to stop the train with her robot. Hiro picks Kanon up and starts to carry her to safety. Kanon wonders why he's helping her and he answers that he's a member of Future Foundation and he can't be the helpless student forever. Kanon tears up and feels guilt about what she did.

Kotoko's robot throws the train off the tracks and she chases after Hiro and Kanon. Hiro starts to regret his attempt at being a hero and he is prepared to die. His crystal ball falls, and Kanon picks it up and throws it at Kotoko with all her strength. For the first time, she managed to throw just how she wanted. The ball hits Kotoko's face, making her drop her controller and stop the robot. Hiro tries to get to the controller before Kotoko does, but Masaru shows up again with his robot. Hiro is forced to run back to Kanon, pick her up and keep escaping. Kotoko and Masaru argue at first, but then decide to work together and chase after the two. Kanon tells Hiro to drop her so he can escape, but he tells her that it's going to be all right. Suddenly, part of the tunnel collapses just as Hiro predicted and prevents the children from following them.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
Kotoko and the other Warriors of Hope members excluding Monaca were briefly shown at the beginning of the episode in the scene where the Servant surrendered himself to the Warriors of Hope.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair 
Kotoko and the other Warriors of Hope are seen hiding in a hotel. Nagisa is on the phone, telling Toko and Komaru how to find Monaca while Kotoko and the others watch in silence.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Kotoko appears as a cameo in the OVA, was shown having fun with members of Warriors of Hope.


Main Article: Punishment of the Fighter

Warriors of Hope:

Kurokuma was Kotoko's advisor. However, she disliked him for his constant talking and suggested that the Warriors of Hope should get rid of him. Kurokuma appears to be humored by her, as in the artbook he states his chest feels like it's going to burst.


At first, Kotoko seemed to have a special attachment to Monaca - often stating things such as 'Monaca's favorite things, I also love!', praising her quite often and calling her "adorbs". Kotoko also states that she likes Monaca's cookies. It's eventually implied that she's actually afraid of Monaca and just tries to stay on her good side. In the end, it's revealed that she hates Monaca and was just acting the whole time.

Jataro 
Kotoko is arguably the most cruel to Jataro, insulting him at every chance she gets and having a lot of fun while doing it, while the other Warriors mostly just ignore him.

After Jataro's supposed death, Kotoko and Monaca both admit that neither cared for his death, and that they mutually hated him.

Masaru 
After Masaru's supposed death, Kotoko mentioned that he always acted all big and was "a perverted idiot, but a pretty good person". It's heavily implied that she's just acting sad and she attempts to fake cry along with Monaca.

Kotoko portrayed the role of Cinderella in a school play, Masaru played her prince.

Nagisa 
Kotoko seemed to have some admiration for Nagisa, who is "so pure" and thinks about others. However, she was a bit frustrated by his strictness.

She is very aware of Nagisa's shy crush on Monaca and often teases him for it.

Later in the game, Nagisa personally steps in to intervene when he sees Komaru and Toko "ganging up on her". When Kotoko attempts to follow him on his mission to escort the two girls, he stops her - ultimately trying to protect her from Monaca's wrath.

One line in the official artbook implies that Nagisa thought Kotoko and Monaca were like best friends, clearly not aware of the true nature of their relationship, and he respected her for giving Monaca company.

Ultimate Despair Members:
Junko 
Kotoko, like the other four, have a special respect and love for Junko. She stopped their joint-suicide by means of jumping off the elementary school's roof and convinced them to not only kill the source of their despair, their parents, but to create a paradise for children by murdering all adults.

Allies:
Toko Fukawa/Genocide 
Genocide Jack/Toko saved Kotoko from the hands of the Monokuma kids, because she wanted information from her. Because of this, Kotoko appears to like both Toko and Genocide Jack, as seen when she saves Toko by leaping onto Haiji who was hitting Toko.

Towa City Resident:
Kanon 
Kanon is Kotoko's Demon target. Kotoko constantly tries to find and kill Kanon with her robot. Her first attempt at doing so ends in failure, with Kanon easily subjugating Kotoko and tying her up with her own knee socks. This led Kotoko to develop a grudge against Kanon, and she tries to kill Kanon again in the subway. She managed to injure Kanon, and uses a similar device to the one she used on Komaru to grope her. However, her attempt at murdering Kanon ends in failure.


"Oh, sorry for the late introduction! My name's Kotoko Utsugi, and I play the role of Fighter. I was called Li'l Ultimate Drama, but that was a long time ago, so I'll leave that part out. My favorite food is peeled chestnuts. My least favorite food is unpeeled chestnuts. Kyahaa! Aren't you surprised? They're both chestnuts! And hey, did you know!? Kangaroos can jump backwards! And, and! And believe it or not, snakes have ears! Ewww!"
"The Warriors of Hope are heroes who save the world from Demons. Isn't that amazing?"
"Since our paradise is for children only, there won't be any more pedophiles, either!"
"He always acted all big, and was a perverted idiot, but...he was a pretty good person. I remember the time he fixed the air conditioner, and even the chairs and tables, too... Anyway, he was a good person. Oh Lord, why do the good ones always die first!?" (mourning Masaru Daimon)
"Demons...are filthy, smelly, ugly chunks of meat, more worthless than dirt... And disgusting, filthy Demons... deserve a disgusting, filthy death. They should all choke on their own poop and suffocate! They should just hold it in, and hold it, and hold it until their intestines explode!"
"Woohoo! Sorry for the intrusion, tank you veddy much! Phew, I reached waaay back for that reference! I had to deal with baby boomers all the time, so my gags are kinda dated. And speaking of old ...Aw, I can't think of any follow-up! I must be nervous! *sigh* My heart is racing faster than 16 shots a second! Master Takahashi would be proud!"
"Ah, by the way, my dad was a dentist. And also, Papa was always cheating with his dental assistant. But I guess he had an inferiority complex 'cause he always role-played as a brain surgeon. Yes, a great daddy indeed... Neglecting his business and making me earn money instead... A perfect Papa who I could kill over and over and over and it still wouldn't have been enough..."
"Being adorbs isn't always a good thing. Cute girls go through terrible things... And if you're adorable too, you have to protect yourself. On your own. If you can't, you have to take whatever they give you. It's a shitty rule, but I didn't make it. Adults did... So be prepared for that life."
"I'm not a bad girl. This is just payback for what happened to me. If you think this is wrong, then what the adults did to me is wrong too, right?"
"All I wanted was to be the same as everyone else. A normal kid who didn't stand out. But she used me to get *her* dream, even if it meant going to "market" with me... Well, the guys who wanted that are to blame too... Business with a mother and daughter set? How perverted can adults be!?"
"G-Gentle? Gentle... Please...*sob* Stop with the gentle... Wh-When they're...gentle, I... I get all flinchy... N-No! *sob* I don't want gentle, I don't... Please stop...*sob* A-Anything but gentle! *sob* Please, no, stop with the gentle! *sob* No, I don't want gentle! I don't want any more gentle!"
"I didn't know breaking the controller would also end the brainwashing... That would be bad. If it's just the Monokumas, that's fine, but the kids... We'd lose all the friends we made... If that happens... I'm gonna be all alone! But even then... I don't wanna be alone! Please, pretty please don't take my friends away!"
Battle Phrases:

"Mega Attack!"
"Mega Piston!"
"Mega Typhoon!"
"Mega Tornado!"
"Special attack! Mega Splaaash!"
"You want to be gentle with me!? I'll kill you! I'll kill you!"
"Turning, turning, a swiftly tilting world... Even without a magic circle, spinny spinny..."
"Filthy Demons get grinded, grated, flushed down the toilet!"
"Why...? Am I about to lose to a Demon? Kids...can't win against adults...?"
"With the Demon Hunting prize money, I'm gonna buy a stork so Monaca and I can have a kid!"

Her given name is composed of the kanji 言, meaning "word" or "say", and 子 - "child".
Kotoko's last name, "Utsugi" (空木), literally means "empty tree", and is actually the Japanese name for a genus of shrub scientifically known as Deutzia.
She likes sweets and dislikes salty things.
She appears to like strawberries, as both her underwear and bed sheets have a strawberry pattern.
Kotoko robot's name is a direct reference a famous real-life figure, Alexander the Great.
In the English dub, when Kotoko was inferred to be naked, she said "I mean, I'm actually 18, but, this is really too much!". This is a lie, as her real age is around 11-12.
This statement is actually a humorous reference to Japanese "adult video games", which usually begin with a disclaimer saying something along the lines of "all characters in this work are 18 and older", especially when they feature petite female characters involved in adult situations.

Originally, Masaru was going to be high school age as well as a Warrior of Hope, but this concept was abandoned as it resulted in loud laughter.Unlike in the series so far, Masaru was instead a major character from elementary school, and thus him being a child was taken into consideration while his design and behavior were created.

As the Hero type, Masaru as a character is based on stereotypical young boy protagonists and was inspired by the ones the creators saw in magazines—red head with bandages, shorts, etc and possessing a hot-headed hero type personality and a protagonist vibe. This also inspired his Ultimate talent and with him being the Li'l Ultimate P.E., he was given a scene with the 3D model in which he introduces himself by doing acrobatic flips. Furthermore, he was made to be a "bratty boss who is also an idiot", which influenced his design as well. For the origin of his name, it was intented to be an earnest leader, for a child. Megumi Han was thought to be fitting for the character with remarks and she was called upon to do the voice work.

At first, Masaru was a stereotype of a character, but his bandages and scratches hint at his background back at home. In the early concept, all the Warriors of Hope worn headphones, but Masaru became the only one to do so to represent him as a strong standing character.


Masaru is an elementary school-aged boy, around 12-year-old. He is tan-skinned and covered in small bruises and cuts. He has red hair, bushy eyebrows, and blue eyes with a flame pattern iris.

He sports white headphones and wears a white tank top that has the emblem of the "Hero" class and the silver Warriors of Hope badge on the front, and a big number 10 on the back.

Underneath, he wears a red and black striped shirt that matches both his armband and socks, blue shorts, and sneakers. He also has a small bandage located right above his left knee, and another under his left eye.


Masaru is a cheerful, hot-headed showoff and seems to be the one who has a more goofy outlook on life. He is extremely energetic and constantly brags about his role as the Hero and leader of the Warriors of Hope, despite the circumstances of how he became "leader" (by winning in Rock, Paper, Scissors).

He loves praise and fame. He refers to himself using orecchi, a form of the Japanese pronoun ore, which can be rude depending on its context but is often used when a speaker wants to assert a feeling of superiority. He also calls himself "Lord Masaru Daimon".

He is also very playful, naughty and mischievous in nature. He likes to boss around others due to his role as the leader and seems to enjoy pranks. For example, he once locked Jataro Kemuri in the bathroom. However, he is always very considerate and respectful towards Monaca.

Masaru has been described as "bratty" and an "idiot". He seems to have a childish "boys are better than girls" way of thinking, as he thinks that girls are stupid and cowardly. Both Monaca and Kotoko call him perverted, though a line in Ultra Despair Hagakure implies that he's still very naive and doesn't really understand sexual things. He is one of the more child-like and less intelligent members of the group, enjoying very childish jokes and being completely unaware of what is truly going on. He also seems to have a habit of remembering certain words incorrectly.

Although Masaru is childish and arrogant, and very focused on becoming the ruler of Towa City and children's paradise, he is shown to genuinely care about the people he leads. He wants to make sure that the kids won't need to feel afraid anymore and he forces himself to be brave for them. He takes his role as the "Hero" very seriously and works hard to live up to certain hero tropes, like being fearless and never losing.

Though he usually appears very cheerful, he can get very upset and break down crying if he is reminded of his abusive past.


Li'l Ultimate P.E.
Masaru is very athletic. He is a very good runner and all-around athlete. During his introduction, he is shown to be standing on top of a human pyramid, most likely as a way of showing that he is #1 in sports. Masaru calls himself the "P.E. King" who can do every single exercise. He also claims that running is as easy as pie.

In other 
Masaru's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Another Episode.

Li'l Ultimate P.E.
Title	English Translation
日本語超小学生級の「体育の時間」	Super Elementary School Level P.E. Period
한국어초 초등학생 급 체육 시간	Super Elementary Class P.E. Time
‪中文(台灣)‬超小學生級的體育課	Super Elementary Students' Level P.E. Class

Prior to the Tragedy 
Masaru was born and raised in Towa City. He was a child prodigy known as a sports legend, and his strong point was any physical activity. He could run a 365-day race in only 24 hours (as stated by himself).

Masaru also lived with his alcoholic father, who was verbally and physically abusive towards him for the smallest of reasons (for example, if Masaru coughed while the father smoked) and constantly forced his son to help supply his drinking habit. Masaru, of course, couldn't buy anything due to his age and he would repeatedly have to steal in order to do this. This made his father even angrier because it humiliated him and made him look bad in the eyes of the police.

According to the father, the physical abuse was "teaching of manners". Every time he was physically abused, Masaru forced a smile so his father wouldn't hate him. However, the father hated the smiling and considered his son abnormal and defective for it. Due to his upbringing, Masaru believed that everything was his fault because he couldn't do things properly like his father wanted and he was sorry for making his father look like "the bad guy". He was really afraid that his father would abandon him and stop being his dad.

Masaru was also a part of Hope's Peak Elementary School. He was in the class of troublemakers along with Monaca, Jataro, Kotoko, and Nagisa Shingetsu.

Although Masaru was on the verge of committing suicide along with the other four kids, Junko Enoshima appeared and convinced the children that the adults were wrong and that they should create a paradise for children. Masaru murdered his parents shortly after and did not regret it.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls 
Prologue - The Warriors of Hope 
Masaru was first seen in the news reporting room, where he messes around with the dead reporter's corpse along with Jataro and Kotoko. Nagisa tries to scold them, however, Masaru manages to rope him into their game as well. He was also shown in the background of Monaca's speech, striking poses.

Masaru is later seen with the other Warriors of Hope in the main hall, boasting about his status as "Li'l Ultimate P.E." as well as being the "leader" of the Warriors of Hope, which Kotoko responds to, saying he only got the position from winning in Janken (Rock, Paper, Scissors) against the others. When Monaca arrives, he moves out of the way for her to greet Komaru Naegi.

Masaru then explains to Komaru that they will play a game called "Demon's Hunting", the game where the Warriors of Hope release Demons into Towa City as targets. The Warriors then would compete to see who could hunt it down first. Not long after the Servant arrives and sets the Monokuma Bracelet on Komaru, Masaru and the other Warriors of Hope open a trap door, resulting in Komaru falling through it and back down into Towa City.

Chapter 1 - Crying for Love in 
Toko and Komaru later meet Masaru in an arena full of the Monokuma Kids in the audience. Masaru then challenges them to a battle, with the loser dying at the hands of the Monokuma Kids. He then reveals the bodies of the previous contestants below him, frightening Komaru and Toko.

As the Monokuma Kids continue to cheer from around the arena, Masaru begins to feel fear; something which he apparently never felt in any of his previous "demon slaying sessions". Seeing his left hand trembling, Masaru enters a state of panic, mixed with the resurfacing of his abusive past. He frantically chants to himself over and over about how "heroes aren't afraid of anything," then proceeds to beat his own left arm for trembling in fear. Komaru tries to calm him down, but after he is finished panicking, his arm now completely blue with bruises, he only seems more determined to defeat the girls.

After being defeated by Toko and Komaru, Masaru is seen recovering from the explosion, until the Monokuma Kids grab him and apparently tear him to shreds, leaving behind his headphones. This makes him the first member of the Warriors of Hope to supposedly die. Monaca, Jataro and Kotoko are so saddened by his death that they create a shrine for him.


After Masaru's defeat, Nagisa replaces him as the leader of the Warriors of Hope.

An image during the s called "Children After The Story" shows that Masaru, Nagisa, Kotoko, and Jataro are all alive and together.

Ultra Despair 
Chapter 3
Masaru Daimon comes to help Kotoko who being tied and interrogated by Kanon Nakajima and Yasuhiro Hagakure with his Hero robot. Hiro would like to run, but Kanon decides to fight as she wants more answers. Unfortunately, Kanon is out of ammo, so the two escape by running.

Chapter 5
Hiro tries to get to the Kotoko's fallen controller before Kotoko does, but Masaru shows up again with his robot. Hiro is forced to run back to Kanon, pick her up and keep escaping. Kotoko and Masaru argue at first, but then decide to work together and chase after the two. Kanon tells Hiro to drop her so he can escape, but he tells her that it's going to be all right. Suddenly, part of the tunnel collapses just as Hiro predicted and prevents the children from following them.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
Masaru and the other Warriors of Hope members excluding Monaca were briefly shown at the beginning of the episode as the Servant surrendered himself to the Warriors of Hope.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair 
Masaru and the other Warriors of Hope are seen hiding in a hotel. Nagisa is on the phone, telling Toko and Komaru how to find Monaca while Masaru and the others watch in silence.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Masaru appears as a cameo in the OVA, was shown having fun with members of Warriors of Hope.


Main Article: Punishment of the Hero

Warriors of Hope:

Kurokuma was Masaru's adviser. However, there was no in-game interaction between the two. In the official relationship chart, Kurokuma seems surprised that being noisy isn't cool in Masaru's book.


Like everyone else, Masaru respected Monaca, and when Komaru made her sad, he was the one to yell at her for being so mean and making Monaca cry. When Masaru later listed his goals, having Monaca to himself was among them, which implies that he had feelings for Monaca.

After Masaru's supposed death, Monaca and Kotoko mourn him, but it seems they were mostly just acting.

It's later revealed that Masaru, along with Jataro, Nagisa and Kotoko, were used as pawns by Monaca, who is revealed to not care about them at all.

Nagisa 
Nagisa and Masaru are complete opposites of each other, personality-wise, and therefore don't get along. Nagisa was often frustrated with Masaru's arrogance and childishness, especially as a true leader should be more humble and dignified; Masaru, in turn, didn't like Nagisa's bossy attitude and inability to cut loose and have fun with the others.

One line in the official artbook implies that in the past, Masaru had a habit to ask Nagisa to do his homework for him. It also seems that Masaru and Nagisa were rivals for Monaca's affection.

After Masaru's supposed death, Nagisa was the only one adamant that Masaru may not have died, and that they should attempt a rescue mission to make sure, proving that Nagisa truly cared about Masaru.

Kotoko 
Kotoko and Masaru are seen to joke and play together. Though Kotoko calls him perverted and idiotic, she admits that he's a good person. After Masaru's defeat, Kotoko and Monaca mourn him, but it seems they were mostly just acting. Kotoko portrayed the role of Cinderella in a school play and Masaru played her prince.

Jataro 
Masaru, unlike many other Warriors, doesn't seem to be verbally mean to Jataro and mostly just ignores him. However, he seems to enjoy bossing him around, telling him to do things like buying him a Cola (as mentioned in the official artbook).

Masaru also liked to play pranks on Jataro, as he once locked him in the bathroom.

Despite his treatment, Jataro seemed to genuinely respect and admire Masaru and even wanted to make an altar for him. After Masaru's supposed death, Jataro seemed truly saddened and wished he would've died instead.

Ultimate Despair Members:
Junko 
Masaru, like the other four Warriors, has a special respect and love for Junko. She stopped their joint-suicide, which would be committed by means of jumping off the elementary school's roof, and convinced them to not only kill the source of their despair, their parents, but to create a paradise for children by murdering all the adults.

Quotes 
"I'm the super duper leader that unites the Warriors of Hope with a bang! Masaru Daimon! My special subject was P.E., so they called me Li'l Ultimate P.E.! I'm the P.E. King who can do every exercise ever! Running nonstop 24/7/365 is easy as pie! Oh, I almost forgot! My job in the Warriors of Hope is the Hero! And as Hero and the leader, I'm gonna be the new ruler of this town!"
"We're gonna kill all the adults in this town and make a paradise just for kids! Isn't it awesome!? No school or homework in paradise, woo hoo!"
"Hey! No talking without the leader's permission! You're just a servant! Next time you talk without getting the okay from me, I'm gluing your mouth shut!" (to The Servant)
"One of them!? Don't treat me like some chump, I'm the leader of the Warriors of Hope! I'm not like those adults who call themselves leaders but hide like cowards! The best leaders are the ones that stand bravely on the front lines! That's a true Hero, Lord Masaru Daimon! Ehe... Ehehehehe! That was cool, right? I looked totally cool right then, right?"
"Hey, didja freak out when the leader of the whole group just popped up like that!? Scary, right!? Pathetic! Just like I always say, stupid little girls with no wieners are total cowards!"
"Alriiight! Brace yourselves, Demons! Even if you show your tummy like a dog and beg for mercy, you're gonna get it now!
"Yeah, that's right... You adults are Demons... You are our enemies... Enemies of kids... That's why me and the Warriors of Hope are gonna hunt down every last one of you! And then make a peaceful paradise just for children in this town!"
"Just because they gave birth to us and raised us, they thought they could control us all! As Hero, I hunted them down and let everyone go free! Ehehe... Now now, don't praise me *too* much... I just did what any good leader would do..."
"I won't become an adult! I made a promise with the Warriors of Hope! I made a promise with Monaca... If I'm gonna turn into a dirty, mean, ugly, smelly Demon, I'd rather die as a kid!"
"If I...hunt down every single Demon... Then nobody has to be afraid anymore! Th-They won't have to be afraid of the violence, and the pain! W-Won't have to... Afraid... I-I won't...be...afraid... I'm not...scared...at all... I don't hafta be scared of the... The dark and the pain and the alcohol smell... Not anymore... Not anymore, not anymore! No matter how much you beat me, I won't be afraid anymore! You hear me!? Not going...be afr...aid..."
Battle 
"Take this! Super Piercing Drill Puuunch!"
"Special move! Mega Drive Drill!"
"Diiie! Demons must die!"
"Demons need punishment!"
"I-I'm the Hero... Heroes never lose!"
"Once I kill you and get the high score, I'm gonna be the "Demon Hunting" champ! And then, paradise, Monaca... It all belongs to the Hero!"
"Ora, ora!"

If read using their Chinese-influenced readings, the kanji making up Masaru's name - 大門大 - can be read as dai-mondai. This pronunciation is the same as that of 大問題, meaning "big problem"- which would reference his naughty personality.
Masaru shares his full name with the Digimon Savers main protagonist, Masaru Daimon (called Marcus Damon in the English dub), and both use the same kanji. Both of them shares a similar "heroic" attitude as well.
Masaru's movements in his execution during the part where many Monokuma Kids pull him into their mob before beating him are very similar to the movements of Leon Kuwata in the beginning of his execution.
Masaru's cry of "Ora, ora!" during the battle with him is a reference to the cry of Star Platinum from JoJo's Bizarre Adventure.
Masaru robot's name directly referenced to a famous American action-adventure television series, MacGyver.

Monaca was designed to be a character the players would loathe. In the past, many dangerous characters in the series were cool and likable in a way, so Monaca was developed to be a dangerous character that one would loathe. The creators stated that a rather unpopular character would feel nice.

She was established as being charismatic due to her talent as the Li'l Ultimate Homeroom, though the creators were conscious about giving her that talent, but not so much about the Mage status. She was given a "cute yet frightening" appearance, with her eyes having a sharp lateral expression to them and a split between strangeness and cuteness. The creators wanted to give her eyes symbols that would make her different from all the other characters. Furthermore, the spine embroidery on her dress from a glimpse can be seen as very neat and clean for a girl, but as a matter of fact the back of it is very strange indeed.

In early development, Monaca did not have a wheelchair, but once the idea came up it was adopted by majority. Yōichirō Koizumi was the one that suggested the scenario for Monaca to be in a wheelchair, and for her to have a "standing up" scene.

It was decided that Haiji and Monaca would be blood relatives, but not in a way that would be easily noticed. At first, they were going to have the same hair color as siblings, but instead their hair colors were kept separate to establish that both of them have nothing in common.

Appearance 
Monaca is an elementary school-aged girl. She has short green hair tied with a red ribbon and matching eyes with a distinct manji pattern as the iris. She wears a knee-length black dress with a decal of a pelvis and spine on its back. Monaca wears the silver Warriors of Hope badge on the collar of her dress.

Her legs are incapacitated, so she uses an electric wheelchair - though, it is later revealed that she was only faking it and she can actually walk. The footrest bears the emblem of the "Mage" class. She also wears black knee highs and white shoes.

In Danganronpa 3 - Future Arc, she is slightly older and dressed just like Junko. She is seen using a wheelchair and it's possible that her legs were incapacitated for real, due to the damage sustained at the end of Danganronpa Another Episode. This is further implied in Future Arc #07, as she is never seen standing, not even while having a seemingly important speech - she is only seen sitting and lying down.

Personality 
Monaca is seemingly very amiable and caring. She appears very cheerful and has a childish way of talking, sometimes meowing and almost exclusively referring to herself in the third person.

Because of her charming personality, all of the Warriors love her and try their best to keep her happy and go along with what she wants. However, it's slowly revealed that she is much more manipulative and cunning than she lets on. Her 'true' personality resembles that of Junko's. She is also mentioned to be very intelligent for her age and very skilled with robots.

When things are not going her way, Monaca will manipulate the situation by any means necessary, such as throwing fits or causing the Warriors to turn on each other. She ultimately has very little regard for their well-being, knowingly using their traumatic pasts against them and not feeling any sympathy nor sorrow for them nor anyone else. She greatly admires Junko, who seems to be the only person she ever cared about, and she hates the idea of Junko being disappointed in her.

Despite her cheerful front, Monaca has suffered from suicidal thoughts in her past and present, though she claims it's all just a joke.

According to Monaca's voice actress, Aya Hirano, "Monaca-chan, just based on appearance, gives you the feeling that she has some special circumstance about her, but in reality, it is not at that level… She is a terrible little girl. She can be angelic, and she can also be a demon." Hirano also commented that Monaca's outer skin crumbles away to reveal her true character as the various mysteries in the game become clear. "She is truly villainous."

In Danganronpa 3, Monaca has the same manipulative and somewhat childish personality. She considers Makoto a loser, because he needs the help of friends, especially since he is a boy and the said friends are girls. In the end, it's revealed that The Servant's constant ramblings about hope and despair made her feel bored and embarrassed about the whole thing. She claims she became an adult in a sense, as she turned more cynical, lazy and apathetic, not really caring about anything. She gives up on despair, knowing that it's all too complicated for her and hope would win in the end, seemingly ending her villainous days.

Skills and Abilities 
Li'l Ultimate Homeroom 
Monaca has a strong ability to manipulate and deceive others, often by exploiting their own character flaws or past traumas. Her guise of childish innocence is strong enough to fool even her fellow Warriors of Hope except for Kotoko.

In other 
Monaca's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Another Episode.

Li'l Ultimate Homeroom
Title	English Translation
日本語超小学生級の「学活の時間」	Super Elementary School Level Homeroom Period
한국어초 초등학생 급 HR 시간	Super Elementary Class Homeroom Time
‪中文(台灣)‬超小學生級的班級活動	Super Elementary Students' Level Class Activity
Robotics Expert 
Monaca is extremely talented at developing and programming robots, allowing her to take charge of the Towa Group's Robotics Branch, despite her young age. Some of her biggest successes include the Monokuma Units and Miaya Gekkogahara's robotic doppelganger, but it is also implied that she built the mecha used by the Warriors of Hope themselves.

Mage Robot: Black Suspirian 
Monaca's main weapon in a direct fight is her personal mecha, a large machine with six arms, four spider-like legs, and a face resembling Monokuma's own. Five of its arms carry weapons from the mecha used by the other Warriors of Hope; Masaru Daimon's drills, Jataro Kemuri's missile launcher, Kotoko Utsugi's ax, and Nagisa Shingetsu's rifle. The sixth arm holds a large staff, with a built-in chair for Monaca to sit in as she controls the mecha with the same control box that her fellow Warriors used.

Unlike the other four mecha, Black Suspirian apparently requires Kurokuma's assistance to operate, which he does by entering a secondary cockpit on the robot's lower body. As powerful as it is, the mecha can malfunction if certain weak spots on its joints are targeted, forcing it to temporarily eject Kurokuma and leave itself vulnerable.

History 
Prior to the Tragedy 
Monaca was born an unwanted child by both her father, the president of the Towa Group and her mother, his lover out of wedlock. Monaca's mother was supposed to take care of her but instead abandoned the child soon after her birth. Because of all her actions, Monaca saw her mother as a completely selfish and pathetic person.

Monaca's father thought of giving her to an orphanage but instead took her into his family. However, Monaca was always unwanted and everyone else felt uncomfortable around her. Every time Monaca smiled or joked, the others looked at her coldly, as if she didn't deserve to laugh. Every time she spoke, the others turned silent. Her older half-brother thought of her as an alien, not part of the family. Everything Monaca did made Haiji feel sick. He had a bad feeling about her and he was quite sure that Monaca would end up destroying his family.

Though Monaca was happy and childish on the outside, she felt like dying. It's implied that she was physically abused, too, and one time she pretended to be badly wounded as a result. She started to pretend to be paraplegic because she was finally treated with some kindness and she could have more control over people. Believing that they caused it, her father and brother felt pity for her.

Even though Monaca was disliked in the family, she had a genius intellect and became a chief executive of Towa Group robotics branch, even surpassing Haiji.

Monaca also attended Hope's Peak Elementary School and was part of the "trouble-makers class" along with Nagisa, Masaru, Jataro, and Kotoko. She loved homeroom period where she would share and exchange opinions. Along with her fellow abused classmates, she planned a group suicide; however, Monaca never had any plans to commit suicide in the first place and was planning to let the others die as a prank. The group suicide was stopped by Junko, who took the kids in and manipulated them by treating them with kindness and love.

Monaca then helped Junko (knowing fully well that Junko was trying to use her) mass produce Monokumas for the Tragedy by using her position as a representative of the Towa Group. She lied to her father and the other adults in order to produce the Monokumas, telling them that she wanted to create futuristic robots that could be domestic helpers and emergency aid workers. Due to her separation from the family and her genius, her family decided to give her leg room to do what she wanted as long as she brought in profits to the company, and didn't delve too deeply into her plans.

During the Tragedy 
The Monokuma Units created by the Towa Group were used as killing machines during the Tragedy. Monaca also began manufacturing Monokuma-themed helmets that could brainwash their wearers into obedient slaves for her plans - by giving these to various children, she created the Monokuma Kids.

When her father learned of the Monokumas' true use, he tried to stop production. However, Monaca blackmailed him to let her continue, warning that if he stopped her, she would tell Junko to spread the fact that the ones who made the murderous Monokumas was, in fact, the Towa Group.

Monaca also gave her father the idea to make both Monokumas and weapons against them. As a result, Towa Group made even more money and looked like heroes to the public, but was forced to work together with Ultimate Despair. Towa Group gained money, honor, and protection from their alliance with Ultimate Despair, and in the end, Tokuichi Towa was corrupted and became a big supporter of Junko Enoshima, Ultimate Despair, and the Tragedy.

After the death of Junko, her influence grew weaker and weaker and Future Foundation became more powerful. Tokuichi simply said that it's all over, gave up and ended his alliance with Ultimate Despair. He was later murdered by a group of Monokumas and his throat was torn out at the command of his daughter, to prevent him from interfering with her plans. The murder was witnessed by Haiji, who escaped and decided to destroy all Monokumas to avenge his father.

Nagisa, Masaru, Jataro, and Kotoko didn't know what to do after Junko's death. Junko had taught them that they should create a peaceful paradise for children and kill all the adults - "the Demons". Monaca told them that they shouldn't give up on hope and they should continue fulfilling Junko's wishes. She manipulated them even further, telling them that the dirty Demons killed their "big sis Junko".

However, Monaca's true goal was neither paradise nor revenge. She planned to create a successor to her idol ("Junko Enoshima II") and cause a huge war, an idea she originally seemed to get from Kurokuma. Monaca was also the one who came up with the idea of the massacre game known as the Demon Hunting. The whole thing was just a game for the kids, who started to call themselves the Warriors of Hope.

When the Warriors of Hope captured and forced Nagito Komaeda to be their slave, Monaca decided to work with him despite their different goals. She asked Nagito (now operating under the name "Servant") to guide Komaru through their Demon Hunting game and bring her to their secret stronghold, a building called Towa Hills - Monaca found a certain amusing irony in making Makoto Naegi's sister the next Junko Enoshima. The Servant then made a deal with Toko, promising to release the captured Byakuya Togami if she escorts Komaru safely to the stronghold.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls 
Prologue - The Warriors of Hope 
Monaca first appears in the news reporting room with the other Warriors of Hope warning any survivors that they intend to kill all adults and that they should remember them. She then says goodbye and cuts the news report.

Monaca appeared again as the Warriors of Hope welcomed and introduced themselves to Komaru Naegi in their airship, the Excalibur. She cheerfully explains her status as "L'il Ultimate Homeroom" and self-proclaimed "life of the party" of the group. She reveals the Warriors' plan to make "a paradise of children, for children, by children". Not long after the Servant arrives and set the Monokuma Bracelet to Komaru, Monaca and the other Warriors of Hope open a trap door, resulting in Komaru falling through and back down into Towa City.

Chapter 2 - Legend of the Revolution 
After Masaru had been supposedly killed, Monaca, Kotoko, and Jataro made a shrine for him and mourn his death. However, Monaca was only fake crying.

Nagisa didn't mourn Masaru's death because his current fate was still unknown. Monaca turned angry until Nagisa agreed with her and manipulated him, using both his trauma and his crush on her against him. Monaca then decided to elevate Nagisa from vice-leader to the Warriors' new leader in place of Masaru, and later left the other Warriors of Hope because she had "some business to take care of".

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's Battlefield 
After the supposed death of Jataro, Monaca manipulated Kotoko as well, cruelly using her trauma to punish her for disagreeing with her.

Chapter 4 - The Way We Live 
Monaca reveals her true goal to horrify Nagisa. She then kisses him in order to enforce the authority she knows she has over him, then degrades him by implying he is a pervert. Monaca implies she will do more 'favors' for him in exchange for a now scarred Nagisa's cooperation. Once literally backed into a corner, he slaps her repeatedly and screams for her to stop but she continues to mentally wear him down. She tells Nagisa that she has never expected a thing from him to begin with because he is just a child who isn't worth placing any expectations on, which clashes with everything he has been told his entire life. In his mental distress, she kisses him and throws him into despair.

Before the end, Monaca appeared and expected that Nagisa should have been defeated already by Komaru and Toko. Then, she began to finish her preparations for the climax.

Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl 
Komaru, Toko, and Haiji confront Monaca in the airship Excalibur. After revealing that her legs were not disabled as previously thought, Monaca and Kurokuma summoned their battle robot, which appeared to be a combination of the robots used by the other Warriors of Hope. Komaru and Toko were able to defeat them, leading to Kurokuma having his head sent flying off his body, through the window, and falling down to the ground.

Monaca then gave Komaru the Monokuma controller, which controlled all the Monokumas, for her to destroy and shut them down. However, Kotoko appeared and warned them not to break the controller, saying that it would blow up the helmets of the Monokuma Kids, killing them all. Komaru wasn't sure what to do, and Monaca showed her a video of Komaru's parents dead, in a torture room. Komaru was in complete despair, and Monaca then revealed that her true goal was to turn Komaru into "Junko Enoshima II" by despairing her and making her kill all the Monokuma Kids. The killing of the Monokuma Kids would also cause a war between Future Foundation and Towa City.

Suddenly, Toko took the controller from Komaru to prevent her from breaking it. Monaca questioned why she did that, saying it's her duty to Byakuya and the Future Foundation to eliminate all despair. Toko agreed but added that she also doesn't want to let despair spread to Komaru, the Monokuma Kids, or anywhere else. Haiji then got angry at her for refusing to destroy the controller to save the adults, even if it means killing all the kids (since they were the ones trying to kill them). But Kotoko attacked Haiji in order to help Toko.

The giant Big Bang Monokuma then began attacking the ship. Monaca claimed that it is being controlled by someone (being Shirokuma) to try and kill them all. In a panic, Haiji, Kotoko, and Toko (who dragged the despaired Komaru with her) escaped the crumbling room. Monaca, however, remained in the room and smiled insanely as the Big Bang Monokuma attacked her.

In the end, Monaca was trapped under rubble, and everyone mostly ignored her and left. Monaca was frustrated at the ending which is neither hope nor despair and she felt great despair as the ceiling started to crumble more.

Epilogue - The Changing World We Made 
After her plans failed and she was trapped, Monaca was rescued and carried away by the Servant. The Servant suggests that Monaca herself should become Junko Enoshima II and he offers his help for some amount of time, deciding to raise Monaca to be Junko's copy and even better than the original Junko.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc 
Episode 04 - Who is a Liar 
After Juzo Sakakura attacked Miaya, she fell to the ground unresponsive, cutting to a scene showing Monaca trying to reboot "it", revealing that she is controlling a robot doppelganger of Miaya.

Episode 05 - Dreams of Distant Days 
After successfully recovering Miaya from Juzo's attack and catching up to Makoto and Aoi Asahina, Monaca is seen using a joystick to control Miaya's actions. Using Miaya she knocked out Seiko Kimura with her wheelchair's missiles.

Episode 06 - No Man is an Island 
Seeing Makoto in a state of despair, Monaca (who was eating some sweets behind the screen) decided to use Miaya to give a rousing speech to Makoto and Aoi about not giving up. She then claims how much of a loser Makoto is for letting the girls help him with his situation. She finds it unbelievable how someone with an empty head like him could've beaten Junko.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair Girls 
At the beginning of the episode, Monaca is seen crying about how hope keeps beating despair in front of several Monokumas. However, she tells them she will continue to show the world how wonderful despair is.

It was later revealed that she is based near the outskirts of Towa City. Monaca was then seen watching Komaru and Toko, who were tasked by Byakuya to locate her whereabouts, enter her base claiming how friendship and hope disgust her, wondering how people risk their lives on those ideas. After seeing the actions of the two girls she begins wondering whether or not the world is rejecting her claiming her only choice is to run away from the Earth or destroy the world and has already made her decision in regards to it.

Komaru and Toko later found a room filled with the mechas they previously fought. Monaca greeted the two, appearing on a screen, and tells them that despair will beat hope and activates the robots along with some Monokuma before immediately giving up; blowing up her base of operations in the process.

Lying in the ruins, Komaru and Toko find a van where Monaca is staying in; living in a very cluttered situation. She tells the two that she isn't the mastermind of the Final Killing Game and only intended to join to observe Makoto up close. She also confirmed the fact that she indeed killed Miaya. She also states that due to her old pranking habits, she was the one who faked Aoi's death (even acknowledging the fact the prank didn't land well).

She claimed that she has given up trying side with either hope or despair claiming that the Servant's attempt at making her the second Junko Enoshima made her instead give up on it.

When asked who is the real mastermind, Monaca claimed she doesn't know, but told the two that a survivor of the Killing School Life will most certainly die because of Makoto's actions, and she decided to keep it a secret. She then called for four Monokumas, using their rockets, to blast her van up to space and tells Komaru and Toko that she has decided to become a NEET in space.

While blasting off into space, Monaca decided that she will finally stop thinking about hope and despair.

Episode 09 - You are My Reason to Die 
Monaca's prophecy became "true" as Kyoko Kirigiri was poisoned after violating her own NG Code, 'Passing the 4th time Limit with Makoto Naegi Alive'. Monaca was able to predict her imminent fate since her her robot Miaya contained a PDA that showed every player's NG Code.

Episode 12 - It is Always Darkest 
Monaca is seen watching Ryota Mitarai's hope brainwashing video, from her TV screen within her van in space.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair 
After Ryota canceled his brainwashing video, Monaca returned to her normal self and continues to live in space.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Monaca appears as a cameo in the OVA, was shown having fun with members of Warriors of Hope.

Relationships 
Family:
Haiji 
Haiji always hated his half-sister, even when she was still very, very young. He never wanted Monaca to be part of his family, and only viewed her as an "alien" and "mistake". He hated when Monaca called him her big brother and everything she did made him feel sick. From the start, he had a bad feeling about her and he was quite sure that Monaca would end up destroying his family.

Because of the way she was treated, Monaca began to have suicidal thoughts. It's heavily implied that Haiji used to be physically abusive towards Monaca, but he felt at least some pity for her when he thought he had permanently paralyzed her by accident.

Ultimate Despair Members:
Junko 
Monaca sees Junko as her savior and idol. Junko appears to be the only person Monaca genuinely cared about. She was the only Warrior of Hope who knew that Junko was just using them and didn't really care about them, but she didn't care, as she was so grateful for Junko for "shining light into her boring world".

Monaca also has many pictures of Junko in her secret room. One main photo depicts her with a younger looking Junko holding onto her wheelchair. Despite their closeness, Monaca didn't seem to fully trust Junko as even she didn't seem to know that Monaca was only faking her disability, seen in the way her AI appears genuinely surprised to learn this fact.

Not wanting Junko's legacy to end, Monaca's main goal was to create a second-generation Junko Enoshima. She planned to become her successor herself based on the Servant's advice but ended up giving up on this goal after she realized that she didn't want to become like him, completely obsessed with hope and despair.

The Servant 
When Nagito Komaeda was captured by the Warriors of Hope and became their Servant, Monaca seemed to be the only one aware of his true identity. Secretly, they became allies despite their different goals, and the Servant aided Monaca with her own goals. However, Monaca didn't share all of her information with him, as she didn't trust him completely.

Monaca was amused by the Servant's strange behavior and contradicting beliefs and appeared to be somewhat annoyed with him at the times, as she once ordered the other Warriors of Hope to draw on his face. Even she was confused by his motives at times, not being sure which side he is on. She also found his strange conflicting obsession with Junko disgusting. However, the two appeared to at least seemingly respect each other in some way, as they treated each other somewhat formally as allies.

The Servant planned on leaving and Monaca let him, believing that they will never see each other again. However, after Monaca was trapped under rubble, he appeared again and rescued her because he was disappointed with the situation's outcome and the neutral ending. He told her to become Junko Enoshima's successor and that he could raise her to become more like her than even she herself was. Monaca seemed to agree with this goal, but the Servant's constant rambling about hope and despair made Monaca bored and feel embarrassed about the whole thing. She claims he made her adult in a way, as she turned more adult in a mental sense and became more cynical and apathetic, not really caring about anything.

In the end, Monaca found Nagito creepy and annoying, but she also appeared to get closer to him during their time together—while originally calling him just "Mister Servant", she later refers to him as "Big Bro" in Danganronpa 3.

Warriors of Hope Members:

Kurokuma was Monaca's Advisor and they shared secret plans together.

Kurokuma was the one who gave Monaca the idea of Junko Enoshima II. He also assisted her in her final battle with Komaru and Toko, using his AI to help her control their complicated battle robot.

Monaca, at least, seemed to like Kurokuma, but also found his constant talking a little annoying at times. She sometimes ordered him to enter "silent mode" when his ranting got out of hand.

Fellow 
The Warriors of Hope are extremely fond of Monaca, always caring for her well-being and hurrying to calm her down whenever she enters one of her pouting fits. The others often even called her their "princess". Monaca appears to use her delicious cookies as an incentive for her comrades to work harder.

Although the care the other kids express for her seems genuine, the treatment Monaca receives is also due to practical reasons, since it is her "magic" which allows the Warriors to control the Monokuma robots.

Ultimately, Monaca is revealed to not actually care about her fellow members, she is shown to sexually assault, badmouth, and even blackmail her fellow members into doing what she says. She isn't truly saddened by their supposed deaths and often pretends to forget their names, even when allegedly "avenging" them in her battle with Komaru.

Enemies:
Komaru 
Monaca appears to take joy in watching Komaru, even giving her the title Onee-chan (Big Sister).

At the game's climax, it is revealed that Monaca's plan to create Junko Enoshima II involves not herself, but Komaru - Monaca herself claims that she chose Komaru because her brother was responsible for Junko's defeat and execution. To do this, she attempted to drive Komaru into despair by forcing her to choose between the lives of the brainwashed children and the increasingly-savage Adult Resistance, nearly succeeding before Toko Fukawa's intervention.

Toko 
While Monaca hasn't directly interacted with Toko, she appears to enjoy blackmailing her, as seen towards the end of the game, and she appears bored by Toko's speech about friendship. Toko in return sees Monaca as the worst brat of them all and ultimately foils her plan by taking the Monokuma controller away from Komaru before she could break it in a fit of despair.

Future Foundation Members:
Aoi 
Under the guise of "Miaya", she and Aoi were barely interacting. After Aoi escaped with Makoto, Miaya helps the two escape, but when Aoi tried to pat Miaya on the head, she flinches away. However, Aoi stated that she was worried about Miaya before she flinched away. After being barricaded in the room by Great Gozu, Miaya, and Aoi grew closer as Miaya (through Usami) freaked out over Aoi's supposed death.

When Makoto, Aoi and Miaya leave the room, Aoi agreed with Miaya when she called them "Soul Mates" and both her and Miaya run ahead so Makoto could easily reach the Monitoring Room. The two later hide together from Seiko.

As Miaya is actually Monaca, she doesn't really feel any friendship with Aoi.

Makoto 
Under the guise of "Miaya", she was one of the few people in Future Foundation to be neutral on whether Makoto should be executed or not. After Makoto is selected as the attacker, Monaca, through the Miaya-puppet, helps him escape, along with Great Gozu and Aoi. After they escape, Miaya hides in the room with everyone.

After they revealed their NG Codes to each other, Miaya, via Usami, states that Makoto, Aoi and her were now like soul mates and Miaya helps Makoto with his plan. However, Miaya lied about her own NG Code.

As Miaya is actually Monaca, she doesn't really feel any friendship with Makoto. Instead, she was just there to be able to observe him, and bring despair upon Makoto if possible; to that end, she pranked Makoto and Aoi by faking Aoi's death. After seeing his performance, she wondered how he is able to bring down Junko, believing him to be an airhead.

Quotes 
DRAEDR3
"Monaca is called Monaca! Monaca's a Mage in the Warriors of Hope. I was known as Li'l Ultimate Homeroom while I was in elementary school. You might think there are no Ultimates and Commons in a class like Homeroom, but there are! For me, my skill isn't really about uniting people, it's about getting them all to help me. Believe it or not, I bring together a lot of wonderful people... It would be nice if you could be a wonderful person for Monaca, too..."
"It! Doesn't! Have to! Make! Any! Sense! That's! All! If! Monaca! Wants! It! It! Happens! That's! How! It! Is!"
"Hm, of course an *adult* sees us as abnormal. But! Who! Cares! What! Adults! Say!"
"Komaru Naegi... In your current situation, you don't have the right to say a thing. You cannot choose your path. Because this place you're in? It isn't a path at all. You are not on a path, you are falling into an abyss. A darkness gaping open beneath your feet. You are just going to fall and fall... Can't you feel the pull of gravity?"
"It's! Gonna! Be! Useless! Masaru! Is! Dead! A prince! Who became! A star! What! Is essential! Is! Invisible! To! The! Eye!" ("mourning" Masaru Daimon)
"Rest in peace, our hero Masaru... You were a grand leader. You worked your hardest, like a real hero should, though you were a coward." (after Masaru Daimon's "death")
"Taro probably got himself killed... Cut, ground down, crushed and stretched, squashed into paste, burned and eaten! Poor little Taro... Even though I hated him." (after Jataro Kemuri's "death")
"Spinny spin spin... The world is spinning, and Monaca is at the center..."
"You hit a girl... How uncool. But... Monaca loves how uncool and worthless you are, Nagisa! Monaca loves you most in the whole wide world." (to Nagisa Shingetsu)
"Let's open the gates of Hell with Monaca... You too, Mom and Dad. The climax is gonna start soon... Your child will be born again as The Successor to Junko Enoshima."
"Pitiful children are the most powerful, don't you think? Monaca's home life was terrible... She didn't feel like she belonged there. But Monaca was more brilliant than her brother or her father, and they hated her for it... But then, I thought of a way I could counter their neglect and cruelty... All I had to do was become a pitiful figure... Then, I would have the whole world's sympathy. The wheelchair was inconvenient, of course, but thanks to the act, I acquired much... I even acquired the Warriors of Hope..."
"When Monaca talks, everyone freezes... When Monaca smiles, everyone stops smiling... For Monaca, the outsider, the eyesore, to survive in that house, she did what she had to do."
"Thank you, Big Sis! Thank you so much for not breaking Monaca's special controller! It would be such a bummer if the end s started rolling before all the cast was here..." (if Komaru does not break the controller)
"The moment Monaca saw her... Monaca understood. Big Sis Junko is light itself that will shine down on Monaca's boring little world. It's a miracle! Thank you, God! At least, at the time I thought it was a miracle. But later I learned it was inevitable. She came into my life just to take advantage of me." (about Junko Enoshima)
"You know hope isn't always a good thing. At times, hope can be a terrible burden... It can be a drive to hurt others. Just like now. What did you think would happen if you gave people who watched their loved ones die hope? They will turn into Demons. Demons who live for revenge."
"She wrote the names of her children before she died. You have such loving parents, I'm jealous. Family love... It sounds so nice. Something I've never felt my whole life."
"Monaca tried to imitate Big Sis Junko, you tried to imitate your brother... But in the end we both failed. Neither of us could live up to expectations."
Battle Quotes:

"This is for the sake of... I forgot his name, um... That "Hero" guy who got bullied by adults!"
"This is for the sake of... I forget his name, the "Priest" guy the adults all hated!"
"This is for the sake of... What's her name? Um... The "Fighter" who fell victim to the male gaze!"
"This is for the sake of... The "Sage" guy... The one who got crushed by his heavy burdens!"
"You sure try hard. Do you really want to save the adults that badly? Do you really want the burden of hope on your shoulders?"
"Huh...? Is Monaca... about to lose? No... that can't be..."
"Towa" (塔和) means "broad harmony".
"Monaca" (最中) is a type of Japanese sweet made of azuki bean jam filling between two thin wafers made of mochi, like a cookie. Her name can also be read as 最中 saichuu, which literally means "in the midst of."
It should be noted that unlike the rest of the Warriors of Hope and despite sounding Japanese, Monaca's name is written in katakana - which is almost never used to write Japanese names and words. The main purposes of katakana are to write foreign names, terms, and loanwords, as well as made up names (e.g. Monokuma). The creators have confirmed that they did this to make her name sound cuter.
Monaca's birthday, April 1, coincides with April Fools Day.
Other characters who also speak in the third person within the series besides Monaca are Ibuki Mioda, Gonta Gokuhara, Angie Yonaga, and Tenko Chabashira (the latter two in Japanese only).
Ironically, given that Monaca faked her disability to get attention and sympathy, her legs are crushed by rubble after the final face-off.
In Danganronpa 3, she is seen with a wheelchair, so it is possible that she became disabled for real. This is further implied by the fact that she's never seen standing, only sitting and lying down.

Nagisa is an elementary school-aged boy. He has short blue hair with cowlicks that are in the shape of cat ears. His eyes are a lighter blue and have diamonds representing the irises.

He wears a light grey plaid jacket over a blue shirt, and shorts that match the jacket. He also wears a brown-orange scarf and a bowtie underneath it. The scarf has the silver Warriors of Hope badge keeping it pinned to his jacket.

He also wears blue socks adorned with the emblem of the "Sage" class.


Nagisa is the most serious member of the Warriors. He is calm, intelligent and level-headed. Because of this, he considers himself the babysitter of the other Warriors, often acting as the voice of reason and calming the others down when needed. He has an aversion to things he considers childish and, though he refers to himself as a child, doesn't like to be underestimated on the basis of age.

He is a perfectionist and suffers from a fear of abandonment as a result of his traumatic childhood. His prime goal in life has always been to exceed the expectations of the people around him in order to prove worth to both his parents and himself. As a result, placing any sort of expectations on him is somewhat of a "trigger". It propels him to try his best to exceed those expectations set for him, even at the expense of his own well-being and overall health.

He is loyal, humble, compassionate and protective of his friends and fellow children. Despite the cruel nature of his abusive home life, he often downplays it as "not as bad" as that of his fellow Warriors, putting more emphasis on their struggles than his own. He states that he cares about them "more than anybody", and is determined to create Paradise to ensure that no one has to endure the pain any longer.

In his memoir, it's revealed that Nagisa felt a lot of guilt in what he and the other Warriors were doing. He knew on a moral level it was wrong, but it had to be done. He also felt guilt over killing his parents. Despite his treatment, he still feels that he is in debt to his parents for raising him. He hates it, but he can't stop feeling that he still owes them affection and respect.

Regardless of how wise Nagisa is among the Warriors, the creators have mentioned that he is actually the most child-like with his personality. This may refer to how easily he was manipulated by Monaca, whom he had a crush on. He repeatedly loses his composure when Monaca does simple things such as compliment him and becomes defensive when teased about his feelings. He also seemed to be so blinded by his affection that he ignored her negative traits until she revealed her true character.

Skills and 
Li'l Ultimate Social 
Nagisa is very intelligent due to constant studying. During his introduction to Komaru, he says that social studies is only one of the many subjects he is good at. It is implied that he is good at other academic subjects as well.

In other 
Nagisa's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa: Another Episode.

Li'l Ultimate Social Studies
Title	English Translation
日本語小学生級の「社会の時間」	Super Elementary School Level Social Studies Period
한국어초 초등학생 급 사회 시간	Super Elementary Class Society Time
‪中文(台灣)‬超小學生級的社會課	Super Elementary Students' Level Society Class

Prior to the Tragedy 
Nagisa was born and raised in Towa City. He was a child prodigy and raised to be a perfect child and one of the society's elites. His father was a teacher at Hope's Peak Academy's Elementary School division which Nagisa attended and as a result, he expected his son to be the best. He was in the class of troublemakers along with Monaca, Jataro Kemuri, Kotoko Utsugi and Masaru Daimon, though he resented being labeled as a "troublemaker". Supposedly, he developed a crush on Monaca at this point, due to her seemingly kind nature.

Nagisa's parents' mindset on raising him is similar to playing a game. In order for Nagisa to "gain EXP and level up", he had to study for unhealthy lengths of time. He would be connected to an IV with energy supplements to "restore HP" when it looked as if he would pass out from exhaustion. He was also constantly observed with cameras.

Nagisa's father forced his son to study non-stop for days. He would do things such as shine bright lights into his son's eyes if he looked as if he were becoming tired at any time other than the short periods he was permitted to sleep. He was also threatened with weapons and other physical abuse. In one of the in-game CG, a knife can be seen on the corner of Nagisa's desk as well as several drops of blood, implying its use. Nagisa's participation in all of this was in the name of an experiment that would try to determine just how much mental and physical stress a child could take before reaching their breaking point.

As Nagisa's father didn't get the experiment results he was hoping for, he didn't see wrong in his way of doing things and instead started to consider his son a failure as a test subject. It's also implied that the parents were considering having another child and restarting the experiment with a fresh test subject.

When Nagisa found out that he was falling short of his father's expectations, he felt such strong self-loathing and guilt that he wanted to die. He felt that he hadn't done anything right, even when there were such high hopes for him. He questioned why he was the way he was, why he wasn't born better and why he wasn't the child his father wanted. Because "only hopeless idiots fritter away their lives with self-hatred", Nagisa decided to just ignore the pain he felt and worked even harder and harder, no matter how high the expectations would be. He didn't want to disappoint his father ever again.

Although Nagisa was on the verge of committing suicide along with the other Warriors, Junko Enoshima appeared and convinced the children that the adults were wrong and that they should create a paradise for children. Nagisa murdered his parents shortly after and did not regret it.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Prologue - The Warriors of Hope 
Nagisa first appears once the Warriors of Hope take over a news networks studio, as they begin playing with the body of the dead reporter. He scolds the others for their childishness and demanding them to take the broadcast seriously. However, his efforts aren't listened to and he runs away from the 'zombie' along with Kotoko when Masaru and Jataro start to chase them, until he trips. He is then seen off to the side with his arms crossed as Monaca addresses the camera.

He is later seen with the other Warriors of Hope in the main hall, mentioning his status of "Li'l Ultimate Social Studies" and admonishing Masaru for bragging about his status as the leader. When Monaca arrives, he moved out of the way for her to greet Komaru. He rushes the group to introduce themselves and shows an immediate reaction to Komaru referring to him as a child. He tells her that age does not matter, so long as you have power. He comforts Monaca when Komaru upsets her and explains that she will be the target of their next game of Demon's Hunting. He tells that he was originally against the game as there was a lot more to be done to establish their child's paradise, but decided to help on the request of Monaca. Not long after Servant arrived and set the Monokuma bracelet to Komaru, Nagisa and the other Warriors open a trap door, and Komaru falls back down into Towa City.

Chapter 2 - Legend of the Revolution 
After Masaru's defeat, he attempts to question if he was really is dead or not—stating that the Monokuma Kids' report only told him that he was 'captured' by the adults. The situation is turned around on him when Monaca begins to compare Nagisa's behavior to an adult's, and his teammates side with her. He is then talked down by Monaca, who manipulates him into confessing his feelings, which leaves him too embarrassed to continue. Monaca then decides to elevate Nagisa from vice-leader to the Warriors' new leader in place of Masaru.

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's Battlefield 
Following Komaru and Toko's attempt to contact Future Foundation from the top of Towa Tower, Nagisa sends several Monokuma Kids on a mission in order to discover where the adults are hiding out, then concocts a plan to get rid of them in one fell swoop so that they can truly start to built Paradise. He reveals his plan to Monaca, Kotoko, and Kurokuma during their meeting and later sends a hoard of Monokuma to take out the resistance base.

When Kotoko is defeated, Nagisa arrives after she is saved by Komaru and Toko. He begins by explaining to the two about the Warriors' collective fear of adults, and the reason behind their hatred. He sees that, as long as both girls remain in Towa City, his vision of Paradise will never be met, which leads to his decision to let them go. He reveals his plan to help the two escape, proving his seriousness by removing Komaru's bracelet. However, a Monokuma Kid records all of this and sends the video to Servant. When Kotoko attempts to follow him, Nagisa stops her, wanting to shield her from any of Monaca's anger towards his interference in the game.

Chapter 4 - The Way We Live 
Nagisa leads the girls to the other side of Towa while recounting to them the reason behind their formation of the Warriors of Hope. Servant catches up with them and scares Nagisa into rethinking his "betrayal" in order to not be seen as a traitor. After the defeat of Servant, Nagisa appears with his robot to take him back to the base.

While under the impression that it was all the Servant's doing that the plan wasn't going accordingly, he angrily shouts and assaults him. Kurokuma mocks him, which fuels his anger and he kicks Kurokuma away as well. Monaca reveals her betrayal and Nagisa is horrified. After failing to convince him otherwise, Monaca then kisses him in order to enforce the power she knows she has over him. While he attempts to get away from her, she then turns violent by degrading him by implying he is a pervert. Monaca implies she will do more 'favors' for him in exchange for a now scarred Nagisa's cooperation. Once literally backed into a corner, he slaps her repeatedly and screams for her to stop but she continues to mentally wear him down. She tells Nagisa that she has never expected a thing from him to begin with because he is just a child who isn't worth placing any expectations on, which clashes with everything he has been told his entire life. In his mental distress, she kisses him and throws him into despair.

Later, Nagisa appears in the underground base where he fights Komaru and Toko with his robot. He apologizes and cries how he wants people to expect more from him and be proud of him, so he wouldn't be a disappointment any longer. After his defeat, his robot falls apart, with an arm seemingly crushing Nagisa before it explodes.


An image during the s called "Children After The Story" shows that Nagisa, Kotoko, Masaru, and Jataro are all alive and together.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 01 - Third Time's the 
Nagisa and the other Warriors of Hope members excluding Monaca were briefly shown at the beginning of the episode in the scene where the Servant surrendered himself to the Warriors of Hope.

Episode 07 - Ultra Despair 
Nagisa and the other Warriors of Hope are seen in a hotel room. Nagisa is on the phone, telling Toko and Komaru where Monaca is hiding out. Nagisa asks them not to hurt Monaca because she was once a friend.

Super Danganronpa 2.5: Komaeda Nagito to Sekai no 
Nagisa appears as a cameo in the OVA, was shown having fun with members of Warriors of Hope.


Main Article: Punishment of the Sage

Warriors of Hope:

Kurokuma was Nagisa's advisor. Nagisa respects Kurokuma the least, beating him up the most out of the Warriors of Hope. Kurokuma also teases Nagisa the most and refers to him as Naggy-sa (Shingetsu-boy in the Japanese version, which is most likely a play on the insult OB or old boy, which is a slang term for retirees).


Nagisa, like the others, respected Monaca - though, he perhaps had the strongest feelings for her. In his memoir, he mentions that Monaca is much more precious to him than his own life. He had a strong romantic interest in her and was often shy and flustered when she would praise or compliment him. In his profile, it is stated that one of the things he likes most is Monaca.

Nagisa was blinded by his affection for Monaca and he believed in her goodness. Supposedly, he originally developed his crush due to Monaca's seemingly kind nature. Later, when he discovered that she had manipulated him in order to further her own goal, he had a hard time accepting her true nature and she broke him mentally by using his past trauma against him.

Despite all Monaca had done, Nagisa still sees her as a former friend, asking Komaru not to hurt her too much because of this fact.

Masaru 
Because of their opposing personalities, they seem to fight the most out of the Warriors. Because of their shared affection for Monaca, they may have competed for her approval as well. Nagisa was often frustrated with Masaru's arrogance and childishness, especially as a true leader should be more humble and dignified.

One line in the official artbook implies that in the past, Masaru had a habit to ask Nagisa to do his homework for him.

After Masaru's defeat, Nagisa refused to accept his death as fact and tried to persuade the others to send out a rescue for him, implying that he may acknowledge him as a friend.

Jataro 
Though Nagisa largely ignores Jataro and is annoyed by his ramblings, he doesn't seem to harbor the same sort of hate for him that the others do and he truly cared about him, just like he cared about all the Warriors. A bonus CG towards the very end of the game reveals a maskless Jataro holding tightly to Nagisa's arm. This may imply that Jataro sees Nagisa as a comforting figure.

In the official artbook, Nagisa tells Jataro that he should fight only in the Demon Hunting game, not with himself. This appears to be genuine advice and expression of concern.

Kotoko 
Kotoko seemed to have some admiration for Nagisa, who is "so pure" and thinks about others. However, she was a bit frustrated by his strictness.

She is very aware of Nagisa's shy crush on Monaca and often teases him about it.

Later in the game, Nagisa personally steps in to intervene when he sees Komaru and Toko "ganging up on her". When Kotoko attempts to follow him on his mission to escort the two girls, he stops her - ultimately trying to protect her from Monaca's wrath.

One line in the official artbook implies that Nagisa thought Kotoko and Monaca were like best friends, clearly not aware of the true nature of their relationship, and he respected her for giving Monaca company.

Ultimate Despair:

Junko 
Nagisa, like the other four, has a special respect and love for Junko. She stopped their joint-suicide by means of jumping off the elementary school's roof and convinced them to not only kill the source of their despair, their parents, but to create a paradise for children by murdering all adults. He refers to her as big sister Junko.

Nagisa openly refers to himself as Junko's "property", and states that he doesn't care whether she used him or not because Junko had finally given him a reason to live.

Quotes 
DRAEDR3
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls (English)

"My name is Nagisa Shingetsu. In the Warriors of Hope, I act as the vice leader and Sage. When I attended elementary school, I was known as Li'l Ultimate Social Studies. Of course, Social Studies is but one area of my expertise. I excel at all scholarly pursuits. I was labeled Li'l Ultimate Social Studies because I was raised to be among society's elite. And... I suppose I am a babysitter of sorts for the Warriors of Hope... Monaca excluded."
"You've seen what we've accomplished so far. This is no joke. For an adult, you sure are dense... Searching for meaning in the meaningless is for adults. Children are untainted by such futility."
"D-Don't be stupid! That's not true! I'll be a kid until I die! I would rather die right now than become an adult! Don't you believe me?"
"If we ambush the place they believed to be safe, they will panic and be flushed out. Like ants who've lost their nest, they will wander aimlessly above ground. And in that weakened state, we crush every last one of them. The Resistance dies with them."
"Ganging up and abusing a child. It's like a special skill all you adults have. All we want is a peaceful paradise... Where children can live without fear. There is no other choice. We must kill them. If we allow them to live, our paradise will be undone. And if that happens, we will be forced to endure our pain once more. Nothing will change. We can never be at peace until we have wiped out every single one of them. So we have to kill the Demons! To protect our world!"
"Yeah, you're probably right... We've all gone mad. Masaru, Jataro, Kotoko, Monaca... We're probably all insane...broken. But whose fault is that!? The adults are the ones who broke us! You want to hear the truth? ...We're scared. We're all terrified of the adults... Hearing their footsteps... Sensing their presence... We can't help but feel scared... Completely terrified. As long as adults exist, we cannot rest... We cannot live in peace. At this point, the damage is irreversible."
"We Warriors of Hope were classmates in the Hope's Peak elementary program. We were in the classroom where they put all the troublemakers. But I resented being called a "troublemaker." It makes it sound as if we ourselves were the cause of the trouble. But that's not right. Our troubles were created by adults. By our parents. They say kids can't pick their parents... Well, we were the unluckiest ones of all."
"My parents were, without exaggeration, the worst... Like Demons. My parents raised me like they were leveling me up in some game... They didn't treat me like a person. They probably even forgot I was their child. From morning till night, study, study, study... When I got sleepy, analeptics. Even if I faint, "HP" is fully restored with a handy I.V. in my arm... three to four days straight. And if I showed even the slightest resistance, they'd use "items" to neuter my spirit. And by doing so, as long as they steadily racked up "XP," I'd level up to their expectations. And it wasn't just at home. I received the same expectations at school as well. My father was a teacher at our school. He was a researcher of children's talent. He used his own son to research the growth of a child's talent. He wanted to see what the growth curve would be like if he pushed a child to the breaking point. ...Isn't that funny? I was the subject of such an amusing experiment. But even with all that, I was still better off than the others."
"Because we had talent, because we were superior, we were treated like we were in Hell. But during it all, we didn't hold a grudge against our parents. We accepted how we were treated. Because we weren't aware that it was okay to hate our parents. We trusted the "common knowledge" that kids must love their parents, so we didn't fight it. Instead, we bonded over our struggle. And those discussions led us to the same conclusion. We had to escape from the horrifying world that made us suffer. We were desperate to run away from our scary parents, scary adults, the whole scary world... And we thought there was only one way out."
"Big Sis Junko showered her possessions with love and affection. She gave us not only love, but a dream as well. The dream of creating a "children's paradise," where the children can live peacefully. We also learned from Big Sis Junko the beliefs required to build that dream. The belief that adults are Demons. It was as if we saw the light... Thanks to her, we finally realized... The common knowledge we had known up until then were lies adults created for their own benefit. Children cannot defy their parents, everyone must get along, violence can never bring peace... To destroy the world based on such lies, we decided to fight against the adults."
"Say what you like. Big Sis Junko... gave us hope. That's the truth. And because of that hope, we were able to defeat the Demon Boss... Our parents."
"We, the survivors, will fulfill the dream, and prove how amazing Big Sis Junko is. We would leave lies like education and love for family in the past, and create paradise. That is our hope! Justice and evil, these are beliefs that *adults* have defined, are they not? First off, pure evil simply does not exist. In all evil there is something good. And in the same way, "justice" always hurts someone. There is no pure justice, either."
"Again with that nonsense, after all this? We are well aware that we are killing innocents. This is war. When you're burning the enemy's country to the ground, do you stop to spare the "good" people?"

"Nagisa" (渚) means "shore" or "water's edge". The family name "Shingetsu" (新月) means "new moon" or "crescent moon", possibly a reference to the shape of his hair.
Nagisa has a copy of one of Toko's books, Blue Thread from the Scarred Mountain, in his bedroom.
On Nagisa's desk, he wrote both Monaca's and his own name under a "love-love umbrella", which is the Japanese equivalent of writing "[NAME] + [NAME]" inside a heart.
There is an issue of an Ero Ero or "erotic" magazine on Nagisa's desk.
Nagisa robot's name is directly referenced to the notorious man-eater serial killer, Hannibal Lecter.
Nagisa's English voice actress, Erica Mendez, also voices Maki Harukawa.

Haiji has long, disheveled black hair and lavender eyes. He wears a buttoned-up shirt adorned with a detailed red rose pattern, a heavy black and red hooded jacket with beige fur trimming, and ripped black jeans. Haiji's right forearm and palm are completely covered with an orthopedic cast, presumably from injuries suffered during the battle against the Monokuma army.


Haiji is deliberate and calculating, although others might call him cowardly. He is very paranoid about the Resistance's hideout, not allowing anyone to leave the place. He claims he isn't hiding, but simply waiting for the right opportunity, although he later admits that he was just being a coward and states that he probably isn't a very good leader.

He is rather serious, the one time he tries to joke around being an awkward and tone-deaf joke about Nagisa's trauma a moment after the child's supposed death. It's also implied that he was an abusive older brother towards his half-sister. Due to his strong hatred of children, he does not care for their safety, believing that they will just cause more destruction if left alive.

While he has a strong hatred of children, he is also a self-proclaimed lolicon who prefers young, quiet girls to loud, older girls. He mentions that he prefers girls to be as young as possible and in the art book it's implied that he would find Kotoko Utsugi sexually attractive if her personality was better. He seems to try to use this fact to prove to Komaru and Toko that he wouldn't do anything to them, as they're a bit too old for him.

He has a strong grudge against the Warriors of Hope, particularly their leader, Monaca Towa, for causing the chaos in the city. He also strongly dislikes the Future Foundation and anything associated with it. He does appear to be somewhat regretful of the Towa Group's unethical actions in the wake of the Tragedy, but mostly because of the problems they caused to himself and his father. Both he and his father seem to mostly blame Monaca and Junko instead of taking responsibility for their actions.

As the story progresses, Haiji becomes increasingly fanatical and obsessed with defeating the Warriors of Hope, no matter the cost. He puts all of his faith in the Big Bang Monokuma, hoping that he can turn the tide of the war in his favor. He turns increasingly aggressive and even violent, wishing to kill the children even if they were brainwashed. He also physically attacks Toko and is willing to hurt her more, though he gets stopped.

In the end, he seems to break mentally and becomes apathetic, emotionlessly stating that he does not care about hope nor despair anymore.

History 
Prior to the Tragedy 
Haiji was the first born child of Tokuichi Towa and his mother. He was the next in line to run Towa City.

Monaca, Haiji's younger half-sister, was born an unwanted child. Monaca's mother abandoned the child soon after her birth. Tokuichi thought of giving her to an orphanage, but instead took her into his family.

However, Monaca was always unwanted and everyone else felt uncomfortable around her. Every time Monaca smiled or joked, the others looked at her coldly, as if she didn't deserve to laugh. Every time she spoke, the others turned silent. Haiji thought of her only as an alien and his father's mistake, not part of the family. Everything Monaca did made Haiji feel sick, and he hated when Monaca called him her big brother. He had a bad feeling about her and he was quite sure that Monaca would end up destroying his family.

It's implied that Monaca was physically abused by her family, and one time she pretended to be badly wounded as a result. She started to pretend to be paraplegic, because she was finally treated with some kindness and could have more control over people. Believing that they caused it, her father and brother felt pity for her.

Nevertheless, Monaca became a chief executive of Towa Group robotics branch thanks to her genius intelligence, surpassing Haiji. Haiji was most likely very bitter about it.

Monaca was later influenced by and helped Junko Enoshima to mass-produce Monokuma units by using her position as a representative of the Towa Group. She lied to her father, brother and the other adults in order to produce the Monokumas, telling them that she wanted to create futuristic robots that could be domestic helpers and emergency aid workers. Due to her separation from the family and her genius, her family decided to give her space to do what she wanted as long as she brought profit to the company, and didn't delve too deeply into her plans.

During the Tragedy 
The Monokumas were used as killing machines during the Tragedy.

Later, Tokuichi was blackmailed by Monaca into mass-producing the Monokumas. In the end, the Towa Group ended up working for both sides - they secretly build the Monokumas and sold weapons against them. Haiji's father became corrupt and enthusiastically supported Junko Enoshima, Ultimate Despair and the Tragedy due to the money, honor and protection he gained as a result.

Haiji appeared to be unaware of his father's change and felt that the Towa Group didn't have any other choice but to obey. He feared that his family line would be shunned and go extinct if the truth was revealed. He feared that Towa Group would end up becoming enemies with both Ultimate Despair and Future Foundation.

After the death of Junko, Tokuichi ended his alliance with Ultimate Despair and was beaten to death by a group of Monokumas under Monacas command. This happened right before Haiji's eyes and he barely managed to escape. Traumatized and angered, he decided to destroy all the Monokumas.

After the children's revolution started, Haiji lost his arm to a Monokuma and became the leader of the adults' Resistance, which hid underground in the sewers from the Warriors of Hope. He had lost everything, including Towa Group and even Towa City because of the kids. He claimed that he was waiting for an opportunity to fight, but in truth he was simply giving up and had no hope for their survival. He became increasingly paranoid and made sure that no one would leave the base. He had respect for Shirokuma, an all-white Monokuma, who rescued and brought adults to him.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls 
Chapter 2 - Legend of the Revolution 
Haiji met with Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa inside the Conference Room in the Adults' secret base, claiming that he didn't really know about Towa City's current situation.

Komaru grew upset when she suddenly remembered her missing parents, and asked Haiji if he knew how to escape the city. Haiji told her that all of the roads to outside are completely blocked and Komaru's wristband would explode if she ever tried to leave the city. Komaru desperately asked if she could somehow get rid of the wristband, but not even Haiji and Shirokuma knew how to do it. Haiji advised that staying put and keeping quiet is the best move.

Toko questioned why the Resistance didn't try to fight the kids, but Haiji insisted that it would be suicide if they tried. Toko then called him a coward, but he claimed that he was only waiting for the opportunity to strike back. When Komaru felt that Toko's harshness was going too far, Toko confessed that she was also speaking to Komaru and started criticzing her for only making excuses instead of fighting back.

Later, Toko guessed that maybe Future Foundation's technology could get rid of the wristband. When Toko was revealed to be a member of Future Foundation, Haiji suddenly got angry and ordered Komaru and Toko to get out from the secret base because he refused to cooperate with the organization. Haiji then left the girls and Shirokuma.

Although he's hostile at first, he had gained some hope after meeting Komaru and Toko.

Chapter 3 - Cute Girl's Battlefield 
Haiji appeared again in chapter 3, where he and the other adults were at a meeting held inside the Conference Room of the Resistance secret base. Shirokuma brought Komaru and Toko who had returned from Towa Tower after communicating with Future Foundation.

Haiji was surprised and became irritated by the appearance of Komaru and Toko, but Shirokuma told him that they have to work together in times like these. Shirokuma said that he brought up a plan to reason with the kids, which is immediately refused by the adults. Komaru tried to support Shirokuma but Toko reminded him that the children didn't have mercy, even towards their own family as they learned from their fight against Masaru. Haiji insisted that they wait for a good opportunity to strike. Toko, who once again was against his ideal of being a leader argued with him. Komaru also agreed with Haiji, saying that Toko didn't understand the feeling, claiming herself as being a weak person.

Before things heated up, an adult broke into the conference room and announced that Monokuma units had already begun attacking the secret base and murdering the adults. When Toko and Komaru followed Haiji and others to escape, Shirokuma begged them to protected everyone.

Komaru and Toko agreed to take action and succeeded in destroying the Monokuma units. Haiji approached them afterwards, blaming them as the cause of this massacre. He then commanded the adults to apprehend Komaru and Toko and put them in two separate cells.

Chapter 4 - The Way We Live 
In order to release the Future Foundation's hostage Byakuya Togami, Komaru and Toko who previously escaped from their cells, planned to return to the adults secret base to persuade Shirokuma, Haiji and the adults to support them in stopping the riot caused by the Warriors of Hope.

Haiji approached Komaru and Toko once they regained their consciousness after seeing Shirokuma's sacrifice by exploding himself to block Monokumas's path to the secret base. Haiji acknowledged that Komaru and Toko's efforts proved that they were not spies. The adults reported to Haiji that they were on verge of death due to Monokumas who were going to massacre them from the front entrance. Komaru, with a new spirit after witnessing Shirokuma's sacrifice, steps up on to the radio truck and made her *brave heart* speech to rally the adults.

Some of the adults were inspired by Komaru's speech and one of them brought Shirokuma's remaining head, who was surprisingly congratulating Komaru and Toko. He explained that his AI chip is inside his head so he would live. Haiji, who had already prepared everything, told Komaru and Toko to get out of the Resistance secret base and to go to a certain place where his "trump card" was hidden. Haiji ordered Komaru to prepare herself because they're going to ride a motorcycle to the place where Haiji's trump card is hidden.

The three of them took an elaborate elevator down to the hidden place which is Towa Group's secret factory where entrance was restricted to top executives only. Haiji had hesitated to come to this place at first because they using Monokumas to guard the secret factory. The control office couldn't be contacted since the Tragedy and Haiji thought that the Monokumas inside had their control functions broken so that they would attack him. The trump card was hidden deep inside the secret factory and the three of them needed to take the elevator to the bottom floor.

Upon arriving at the third base floor, the three found that the elevator couldn't be approached due to the constant lasers. Komaru, Toko and Haiji moved to the management room to insert the password and turn off the lasers, but inside the room, the worker who knew the password had been killed by a Guard Monokuma. After cracking the password, the three finally arrived at the bottom floor.

The trump card was revealed as a Big Bang Monokuma, who was an oversized Monokuma, the secret weapon built by Towa Group to defend the city. Toko freaked out, asking why Towa Group were producing Monokumas in their secret factory. Haiji explained that Monokumas were actually first introduced as a Maid Robot.

During their conversation, Nagisa Shingetsu's robot suddenly broke in to destroy the Big Bang Monokuma. Eventually, Komaru and Toko were able heavily damage the robot, making its parts bend one by one until the left arm fell and crushed Nagisa.

Haiji was finally able to activate Big Bang Monokuma, and began his counterattack on the kids.

Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl 
At the climax of the conflict, he personally piloted the Big Bang Monokuma as the spearhead of the Resistance's strike against the Warriors of Hope. Once they reached Towa Tower, however, Haiji abandoned the machine and began roaming the tower in search of his little sister. Along the way, he encountered Komaru and Toko, and told them that they needed to use his dead father to pass the biometric lock barring their path.

After Monaca was defeated in battle with the heroines, Haiji arrived and encouraged Komaru to destroy the Monokuma controller, which would disable all of the remaining Monokuma units. He quickly became agitated when Komaru repeatedly hesitated, violently forcing Monaca to reveal her role in setting off the Tragedy and aiding Ultimate Despair by producing armies of Monokuma Units. When Komaru remained uncertain, Haiji switched tactics and pleaded with her, calling her the spark that had motivated the Resistance to take a stand against their enemies. Unfortunately, this only furthered Komaru's doubts, as she had reservations about the increasingly brutal lengths the adults were willing to go to in their fight for Towa City. He initially dismissed Monaca's claim that destroying the controller would kill the Monokuma Kids by detonating their helmets, insisting that the leader of the Warriors of Hope was just trying to preserve her forces, but eventually admitted that he no longer cared if the children died if it meant that the war would end.

Ultimately, Haiji's needling helped drive Komaru over the edge, forcing Toko to intervene before she smashed Monaca's controller in a fit of despair. Haiji furiously assaulted Toko, hoping to break the controller himself, only to be attacked in turn by Kotoko Utsugi, who had turned against Monaca after the revelation of her true plan. The scuffle was broken up when the Big Bang Monokuma arrived, having been hijacked by Shirokuma to destroy Towa Tower entirely. Despite his horror and bewilderment as to how his ultimate weapon had been commandeered, Haiji fled with everyone else (excluding Monaca) and took cover while Komaru and Toko battled the machine.


Following the destruction of the Big Bang Monokuma, Haiji was left stunned and despairing. He remained in this state as the war for the city continued, but it is unclear if he retained his position as the leader of the Resistance.


Family:
Monaca 
Haiji always hated his half-sister, even when she was still very, very young. He never wanted Monaca to be part of his family, and only viewed her as an "alien" and "mistake". He hated when Monaca called him her big brother and everything she did made him feel sick. From the start, he had a bad feeling about her and he was quite sure that Monaca would end up destroying his family.

It's heavily implied that Haiji used to be physically abusive towards Monaca, but he felt at least some pity for her when he thought he had permanently paralyzed her by accident.

Allies:
Shirokuma 
Both of them are best friends and the founders of The Resistance. Haiji and Shirokuma have been working together in saving the adults from the Warriors of Hope and travel Towa City. Shirokuma always tries to help Haiji when ever he is stressed or angry and tries to calm him down. Haiji always thanks Shirokuma for everything that he has done to him and for always helping him when ever he needs him.

Shirokuma later betrayed Haiji and took control of Big Bang Monokuma to end him and the rest of the people. However, Haiji wasn't aware of this.

Future Foundation's Allies:
Toko Fukawa 
Haiji and Toko do not get along. Although Toko found Haiji attractive at first, though she was potentially just manipulating him for information, she soon found out that he's a coward and was openly disrespectful towards him, calling him "a mole man" for hiding underground.

At one point, Haiji mentioned that he doesn't have sexual interest in Toko, as she isn't his type (she is older and "noisy"). After this information was revealed, Toko suspects that Haiji might try to harass Komaru and is protective of her.

The two continue to nag at each other thorough the later game, with Haiji always referring to Toko as "Four Eyes" and often appearing willing to ignore or even leave her behind. He later physically attacks Toko and threatens to hurt her more in order to get the Monokumas' controller.

Komaru Naegi 
Komaru has some trust in Haiji, because they have the same goal of defeating the rioting children. She respectfully refers to him as "mister Haiji".

In general, Haiji likes Komaru much more than Toko, because she is slightly younger and nicer in personality. However, he states that he isn't into her "particularly", probably because she is getting a bit too old for his taste. Due to her naivety, Komaru doesn't seem that bothered and thinks it's nice that Haiji is honest about himself, which makes Toko very paranoid of her safety in his company.

After Komaru's grand speech and help with finding the Big Bang Monokuma, Haiji believes she is the adults' hope, causing him to put lots of pressure on her. He turns increasingly more aggressive towards her when she refuses to kill the brainwashed children, at the end even appearing willing to force her.

Quotes 
"I don't have status or money or anything. Those kids took it. Thanks to them, I lost everything. Towa Group, and even the whole damn Towa City..."
"See this arm? Yeah. Got crushed, crumpled up like paper. The whole thing only took a split second. Those brats were...laughing. Like it was fun to them. While I was screaming, bleeding... They're not kids... Not anymore. They're devils! Well, the bright side is, even my nerve endings were crushed, so I don't even feel the pain. Of course that just means it'll never fully heal."
"What's the point of fighting back, knowing that you'd die!? It's all for nothing if you're dead!"
"Rushing forward at full speed with no hope of success isn't courage, it's stupidity."
"I have everyone's lives in my hands. There's no way I'd put you all in danger. I'm completely against a suicide attack, even for those who are prepared to die. My principle is to not waste lives. As a leader, I cannot accept a plan that defies that."
"I am the leader of this Resistance. I have to think about the lives of *everyone* here."
"I remember an old folk tale, about a war between birds and beasts. By using the face of both bird and beast, the bat played both sides. But because he couldn't get too close to either, in the end, the bat ends up alone. Bird or beast... I wonder which side you're on." (to Komaru and Toko)
"Um, no. That's not what I was thinking at all. Especially not with *you*. I...I like 'em younger. As young as possible." (when Toko suggests Haiji wants to sexually assault her)
"The Monokumas that are built here were supposed to be introduced to the world as Maid Robots. They were developed to assist daily life and also to help with dangerous labor tasks. But...those kids ended up taking over..." (to Komaru and Toko at the Factory)
"I gotta apologize to you guys. The reason I was always down in that base wasn't because I was waiting for an opportunity... That was just an excuse. Really, I was just scared shitless by those kids. Heh... Makes me a pretty bad leader. But then someone snapped me out of it. Those two girls over there, neither kids nor adults... Thanks to them, I've finally woken up. No matter how scared you are, if you want a hopeful future, sometimes you gotta fight for one. So never again! Never are we gonna hide and cower and lose what we care about! Now it's time to stand up! With our hands, we're gonna take back this city!" (a speech to The Resistance about Komaru and Toko)
"We don't have to be afraid anymore! We might lose our lives, we might take lives, but either way, we will *not* be afraid anymore! Today, we make the memorial of our victory! We make the memorial of the kids' defeat!" (a speech to The Resistance)
"Stop calling me that! You're not my sister! You're just the old man's mistake... I didn't want you around! I never thought of you as family! You're no child! You're a brat who never learned her place and now it's biting you in the ass!" (to his sister, Monaca Towa)
"Even *if* they all die, they had it coming! You've seen what they did to us! They deserve it! Not even the harshest revenge is enough to make me forget what I've been through! Listen! Listen, outside! The screams of the adults, the ones who lost everything! Our loved ones were butchered by those little brats... They took everything from us..." (after learning breaking the controller will kill the Monokuma Kids)
"You can't think of them as children, they're not anymore! They're the ones who are Demons!"
"Ha, world domination... Sounds swell. If we could completely control all the brats in the world *and* the adults... That'd be nice."

The name "Towa" (塔和) means "broad harmony".
"Haiji" (灰慈) means something along the lines of "mercy of the ashes (i.e. of a deceased's)" - somewhat matching his color scheme.
His name also fits how his motive in creating The Resistance was to avenge the death of his father.
In the original plotline for Danganronpa Another Episode, Haiji was to assume the role of a secondary protagonist very much like Toko, with Kanon Nakajima being the main lead. He was also planned to be able to enter an "offence mode" like how Toko is capable of calling forth Genocide Jack - not by using a taser but by breaking off his cast.

 [show] v • e
GAME CHARACTERS
Categories:
Characters Danganronpa Another Episode Characters Male Alive Maintenance: Article Revamp Add category
Languages:
Español  Polski  Русский
Recent Wiki Activity
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Monokuma
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Leon Kuwata
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Celestia Ludenberg
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Chiaki Nanami
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago








Search

LogicalShark
1
START A WIKI
 ダンガンロンパ
ダンガンロンパ
1,164
PAGES
ADD
COMMUNITY
FORUM
in:
Characters, Danganronpa Another Episode Characters, Hit List Targets, and 4 more
Hiroko Hagakure
English

 
SHARE
Hiroko Hagakure	Gallery	Sprites	
Hiroko Hagakure
3D Model Sprite
 3D Model
Name
Characteristics
Gender
Female Female
Height
171cm (JP)
5'6" (ENG)
Weight
52 kg (115 lbs)
Birth Date
♋ July 5
Chest Size
89 cm (35")
Blood Type
A
Likes
• Cigarettes
• Alcohol
Dislikes
• Her mother-in-law
• Men with no balls
Killing Game Status
Personal Status
Debuts
Portrayals

"	If you're gonna be down, you should go as far as you'd like. The more down you are, the easier it is to stand up a little.

— Danganronpa Another Episode
"
Hiroko Hagakure (葉隠 浩子 Hagakure Hiroko), is a participant of Demon Hunting featured in Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls due to her being the closest person to her child Yasuhiro Hagakure. Because she is considered a "Demon" by the Warriors of Hope, she is given the name Hironosaurus (ヒロノザウルス).

Contents[hide]
Appearance
Personality
History
Prior to the Tragedy
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls
Chapter 2 - Legend of the Revolution
Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl
Epilogue - The Changing World We Made
Relationships
Yasuhiro Hagakure
Shirokuma
Komaru Naegi
Toko Fukawa
Warriors of Hope
Quotes
Trivia
Navigation
Appearance 
Hiroko is a fair-skinned woman with light pink hair that reaches her waist. She has brown eyes, much like Hiro, and a beauty mark beneath her lips. She wears a white bead necklace, a white tank top, and a blue stadium jacket with an unknown symbol on the right side. She also wears black ripped jeans held up by a salmon colored belt and sky blue sneakers.

Hiroko is often depicted as having a cigarette in the corner of her mouth that she sometimes uses to puff smoke.

Hiroko is older than she looks like and keeps her age a secret. Though she has a young looking appearance of a college student, she might be up in her late 30s' or early 40s'.

Personality 
Hiroko is a street smart, relaxed and open-minded lady with a 'you do your thing, and I'll do mine- live and let live' personality.

Hiroko values human lives a lot. Cruelty and killing, especially senseless killing, makes her absolutely furious. She convinces men to act as her envoys and venture out to rescue survivors on her orders through her "woman's special charm".

Hiroko also appears to be rather childish at times, referring to her close friends in playful banter. In the English version, she calls Komaru Naegi "Koko" and Toko Fukawa "Fufu".

Hiroko is a former delinquent, and when she is angry, that former attitude comes out, with her using a speech pattern similar to her son's.

Hiroko is very protective of her son and loves him more than anyone else in the world. She is very proud of him and seems to ignore the damage of his flaws, for the most part.

History 
Prior to the Tragedy 
Hiroko was a delinquent when she was younger.

Hiroko mentions that she once did something she shouldn't have and let it go on too long because she wanted to be with her husband no matter what. However, she was found out and they broke up. In the end, she was relieved, because she was finally free from her "sin".

Hiroko is now divorced and a skilled nurse. She lives with her only child, Hiro, who she loves more than anyone in the world.

At some point, she was captured by the Ultimate Despair and became a Captive for Monokuma's first motive in the Mutual Killing incident of Class 78. She was apparently enclosed in an apartment just like the other Captives.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls 
At an unknown time, Hiroko was apparently freed, only to become one of the people targeted by the Warriors of Hope, who refer to her using the "Demon name" of 'Hironosaurus'. Fortunately, they do not know where she is hiding.

Chapter 2 - Legend of the Revolution 
Hiroko first appeared in Chapter 2 inside The Resistance's secret base.

She is part of The Resistance and is one of the few members who actively works to make things better. Even though the Resistance members aren't allowed to leave the base, she convinces men to act as her envoys and venture out to rescue survivors on her orders through her "woman's special charm".

While progressing through Towa City, Komaru and Toko would come across entries from the Warriors of Hope's "Hit List" - a list of adults whom they target specifically, labeling them as Demons. Upon bringing these collectible entries to Hiroko, she would fill them in about her knowledge of whichever person they show her and send people to help the Targets if their location is known.

Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl 
Hiroko appeared in the adults' meeting point in the city, having brought Shirokuma's still-functioning head to Komaru, suggesting to Komaru and Toko to invade Towa Hills while the Big Bang Monokuma continued causing chaos; she reasoned that the Big Bang Monokuma would keep the regular Monokumas busy enough such that Towa Hills would be vulnerable.

Epilogue - The Changing World We Made 
During the end of the game, it's mentioned that many of the Targets were rescued thanks to Hiroko.

Relationships 
Family:
Yasuhiro Hagakure 
Hiroko loves her son more than anyone else and is very protective of him. She mentions that she is very proud of him and calls him successful, sharp, handsome, tall and kind. She calls him perfect, but "teeny, eentsy bit clumsy with money", a thing which bugs her a little bit. She also admits that he's had big problems with school and women, but she finds his flaws rather cute in a way.

Hiro, in turn, loves his mother just as much as she loves him, which leads to her becoming a Captive.

She is mentioned by Yasuhiro in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, when Tenko Chabashira tells him to appreciate all the women in his life.

The Resistance
Despite Hiroko being a part of the Resistance, she seems to hate how they do nothing, but hide. She holds this hatred down and states that there is nothing else they can do.

Shirokuma 
Although they don't talk to each other that much, both of them are members of the Resistance and work together to save people from Towa City. In Chapter 5, Hiroko is seen carrying Shirokuma's head.

Komaru Naegi 
Hiroko and Komaru appear to be friends to some extent, Hiroko calling Komaru "Koko" ("Komarucchi" in the Japanese version). Hiroko calls Komaru by her first name, meaning she is very playful with her.

Toko Fukawa 
Hiroko and Toko appear to be friends to some extent, Hiroko calling Toko "Fufu" ("Fukawacchi" in the Japanese version). Unlike with Komaru, Hiroko uses her last name, showing some ounce of respect for Toko.

Enemies:
Warriors of Hope 
Hiroko is a Target for the Warriors of Hope. They see her as a Demon target and will do anything to kill her. They describe her as using her status as a nurse to eat hospitalized patients.

Quotes 
"The name's Hiroko Hagakure. I'm once-divorced and currently single. My age is a secret."
"Okay, noted. You're Koko and Fufu." (Nicknaming Komaru and Toko)
"Little older than you two. Proud of him, a very successful boy. He's a sharp boy. Handsome, tall, kind... If he didn't come out of me, I wouldn't believe he was my own kid! But even if my son *is* perfect, something has been bugging me... It's just a small thing, but... He's just a teeny, eentsy bit clumsy with money. He's in debt. Oh, and he also repeated middle and high school about 4 times. Oh yeah, and he's also just terrible with women... Well, those flaws are kinda cute too, in a way." (on her son, Yasuhiro.)
"Who cares? Worrying over little details is bad for the skin, hun."
"Yo, Koko and Fufu. Heard you went outside. Well, I figured you would. How should I put it...? There's something different about you two, compared to these people. How can I say it...? The air around you, it's different. You two are always facing forward. But in here, the air is getting heavier and heavier. Everyone's stressed. Stuck in a dark and moldy place like this, how could you not be...?" (to Komaru and Toko)
"...Dude, that's just...unforgiveable! An innocent kid losing his life to some crazy-ass kids... No matter what you think, it shouldn't be allowed! They might be kids, but they're gonna get their just deserts! It will cost them at least a finger! Ooops... My past self came through a little bit there..." (on the Warriors of Hope)
"Hey, it's fine. If you're gonna be down, you should go as far as you'd like. The more down you are, the easier it is to stand up a little."
"High school boys are like that. They can live a whole month on nothing more than porn, fried chicken, and manga."
"I was one of those criminals. The cops couldn't count on two hands how many windows I broke in the day."
"Didn't I tell you? I might not look like it, but I used to work day and night in that uniform. I had a reputation in the hospital that my blood-drawing skills never missed a vein." (on being a nurse)
"God DAMMIT! Those little shits have no right! No, not just the kids... No one has any God damn right to kill anyone! I gotta rake those brats over the friggin' coals!" (on the Warriors of Hope)
"The world is a kinder place than you think."
"Hiroko" (浩子) can be translated as "abundant child" or "vigorous child", while her last name "Hagakure" (葉隠) translates as "concealed among the leaves/blades/spears" (based on which meaning of 葉 ha is chosen).
Hiroko has the habit of nicknaming people she is on friendly terms with, typically by doubling up a syllable of their name, such as Koko (Komaru) and Fufu (Toko). In the Japanese version of the game, Hiroko nicknames people using the "-cchi" suffix.
Despite the fact that she says in-game her age is a secret, a page in the artbook showing Hiroko's beta designs states that she is "approximately 36" years old. Considering her son's age, that means he was born to Hiroko when she was only around 14 years old.

 [show] v • e
GAME CHARACTERS
Categories:
Characters Danganronpa Another Episode Characters Hit List Targets Female Alive Killing Game Survivors Maintenance: Article Revamp Add category
Languages:
Español  Français  Polski  Русский
Recent Wiki Activity
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Monokuma
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Leon Kuwata
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Celestia Ludenberg
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Chiaki Nanami
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago








Search

LogicalShark
1
START A WIKI
 ダンガンロンパ
ダンガンロンパ
1,164
PAGES
ADD
COMMUNITY
FORUM
in:
Characters, Danganronpa 2 Characters, Danganronpa Another Episode Characters, and 10 more
Izuru Kamukura
English

 
SHARE
Hajime Hinata	Izuru Kamukura	World Destroyer	Gallery	Sprites	
Izuru Kamukura
Illustration DR2 DR3 - D DR3 - H DRV3
 Illustration
Name
Aliases & Titles
Talent
Characteristics
Gender
Male Male
Height
179cm (JP)
5'8" (ENG)
Weight
67 kg (147 lbs)
Chest Size
91 cm
Blood Type
A
Likes
None
Dislikes
None
Killing Game Status
Personal Status
Debuts
Portrayals

"	For me...a person who is loved by talent... Detecting regularities among irregularities won't be that difficult. ...Ah, how boring.

— Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair
"
Izuru Kamukura (カムクラ イズル Kamukura Izuru), also known as Izuru 1.0, is one of the two main antagonists of Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, and a major character in the Danganronpa series. He is an alternate identity of Hajime Hinata.

Izuru was the end product of Izuru Kamukura Project, and as a "genius out of the ordinary" and Hope's Peak Academy's ultimate goal, went by the title of Ultimate Hope (超高校級の「希望」chō kōkō kyū no "kibō" lit. Super High School Level Hope). He is named after Hope's Peak Academy's founder.

In Danganronpa 2, he is mentioned to be the culprit behind The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy as well as a Remnant of Despair, who aided AI Junko Enoshima by putting her into the Neo World Program. However, during Chapter 0, it's implied that he considers her an enemy and has his own motives. By the end of the story, he awakens into the real world and chooses to live as Hajime Hinata.

Izuru is also briefly shown in the epilogue of Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls, preparing his plan for the second game.

Izuru returns in the prequel Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School. It is shown that he seemingly joined Ultimate Despair, after being persuaded by Junko that it would end his boredom. In the end, his true motive which was vaguely mentioned in Danganronpa 2 is revealed to be his desire to see whether hope or despair was more unpredictable, following Chiaki Nanami's death. It is also revealed that he wasn't the culprit behind the school's Tragedy and was simply blamed by Junko, a fact which was implied in Danganronpa Zero.

In Future Arc, it's revealed that his and Hajime's personalities have merged. As shown in the ending of Danganronpa 2, he has chosen to live as Hajime, but he still has all of Izuru's talents and other people sometimes seem to mistake him for Izuru. With his talent, he cured the comatose students from the brainwashed effect and brought them alive from the Neo World Program, setting off to the Future Foundation off-shore faculty to stop Ryota Mitarai from using his hope brainwashing video.

At the end of Danganronpa 3, he returns to Jabberwock Island and lives in peace with his classmates.

Contents[hide]
Appearance
Personality
Talents
Ultimate Hope
History
Hope Cultivation Plan
Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair Arc
Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter
Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History
Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by Chance
Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile
Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope
Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy
The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy
Danganronpa Zero
During the Tragedy
Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls
Prologue - The Warriors of Hope
Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair Girl
Epilogue - The Changing World We Made
Capture by Future Foundation
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair
Chapter 0 - Heading to the School Trip
Throughout the Killing Game
Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc
Episode 06 - No Man is an Island
Episode 12- It is Always Darkest
Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of Despair
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Ultimate Talent Development Plan
Relationships
Hajime Hinata
Junko Enoshima
Remnants of Despair
Chiaki Nanami
Real-Life Version
AI Version
Nagito Komaeda
Quotes
Trivia
References
Navigation

He has very long, flowing black hair. His hair is usually smooth, though it's also been portrayed as messy. He has red eyes with symbols resembling target radars running across his pupils, unlike Hajime. His skin is pale, and sometimes appears grey or cadaverous.

He wears a black suit with three white buttons, a black tie and a white dress shirt inside. He also has a black belt and black loafers.

When Izuru appears in Hajime's subconscious, he is dressed in Hajime's attire.

After he exits the Neo World Program, Izuru and Hajime's identities merge together. Choosing to resume his appearance as Hajime, he cuts his hair short and switches his black suit for Hajime's school attire. His eyes have also become heterochromatic. His left eye is red while his right eye remains green. The design of both his eyes have also adapted Izuru's target radar design.

In Danganronpa V3's bonus mode, Izuru appears the same as in Danganronpa 2, although his hair appears lighter and his skin less grey as a result of no longer being in shadow.


Due to the drastic changes that the operations made to turn Hajime into Izuru, his original personality was suppressed so as to not interfere with his talent cultivation. Izuru appears as a cold and emotionless person who finds everything and everyone boring, though he does talk and express in a more polite way than his alternate identity in the Japanese version. He expresses a disgust for talentless people, because his "teachers" taught him that they are just parasites who oppose and leech off of those with talent instead of acknowledging their "true superiors". He believes that such people brought the world to a deadlock and created a world that has stopped evolving, and that the only way to improve this is a certain form of "selection".

Izuru enjoys unpredictability, which can make him feel more emotional, but he also tends to quickly grow bored because his supernatural analytical skills and intuition cause him to quickly predict things with surprising accuracy. This is seen in Chapter 0 of Danganronpa 2, as he is visibly excited by the rocking of the boat only to find it boring a few seconds later (he is also so focused on the rocking that he doesn't even realize he's on a boat, at first). Notably, he appears aware that he is only being used and his talents are "leeched off" to create hope he finds boring and predictable, but he has no motivation to change his situation. Junko eventually used this to manipulate him, as she told him to strive for the unknown of despair and chaos, finally motivating him to strive to actively free himself from the boredom.

In Danganronpa 3, Izuru is shown to be quite silent at times, acting responsive only when he finds it necessary. Instead, he often observes other people and situations silently with no changes in his facial expressions, often without being noticed by other people. He appears to have no interest in humor nor romantic approaches from other people, as he often doesn't even look at other people during those moments, and ignores behavior like this from Junko. He never laughs nor smiles, and generally doesn't change his expressions much. However, while he lacks sympathy for others, he differs from Junko in that he neither does not enjoy the sufferings of others, and thus mostly hurts or kills other people only during self-defense type of situations. While he usually has no interest nor care for other people, the only exception is Chiaki due to his past life, as Hajime's attachment to her made him shed tears (though he didn't appear to know why) and she is the only person he subconsciously cared for as shown when he kept her hairpin and mourned for her after the Tragedy.

In Danganronpa Another Episode, Izuru appears completely silent and seemingly unemotional. However, he rips the hard drives from Shirokuma and Kurokuma in a rather aggressive and seemingly annoyed manner, which is even commented on by the Alter Ego Junko. Similarly, he appears unusually bitter and vengeful while talking about Junko during Chapter 0 of the second game, because she used him in the past. It's also possible that he is subconsciously angry because she killed Chiaki.

After the Neo World Program, the person who went in as Izuru started to identify as Hajime. He still expresses boredom to some things, but his personality is mostly like Hajime's, as he has an easier time feeling emotions and is more proactive. Interestingly, the World Destroyer whose personality and mannerisms appear largely based on Izuru is seen giving Nagito a very small smile during their talk in Danganronpa 2.5.

Ultimate Talent Development Plan Non-Canon Events:
During Danganronpa V3's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, it's shown that Izuru appears to lack a certain sense of identity, as he states that Izuru Kamukura is what he is called, instead of stating it's who he is. Additionally, when speaking with Kiyotaka Ishimaru, he states he doesn't have a purpose unless someone else gives him a one, as he was created to bring hope to people. Furthermore, he doesn't seem to care whether someone will give him a good or an evil purpose in the future, as he is bored with predictable hope.

Generally speaking, he is anti-social and reclusive, to the point Kokichi Oma says there are rumors he's really a ghost. It's also mentioned that Usami has to force him to attend school festivals and he always tries to finish any activities as quickly as possible to get them over with. He himself has mentioned many times that he doesn't particularly like anything nor do anything in his free time, and he tends to arrive to the school very early because he doesn't have anything else to do. While he does sometimes interact with others without Usami's intervention, it's usually for short periods of time because he gets bored quickly. When Aoi Asahina greets him, for example, he answers back "good morning", but has no further interest to speak with her. He can quickly analyze other students and tends to bluntly point out their flaws and reasons behind their actions. He generally doesn't seem to have much concern for others' feelings, with how cold and blunt he is, but he occasionally agrees to do something for others with a bored "very well" and sometimes bluntly asks others if they would prefer him to answer in a certain way. That said, there are a few people he does express more interest in, such as Chiaki Nanami and Kaede Akamatsu. Some other students also point out his flaws, such as Kaede noticing the lack of emotion in his piano playing, K1-B0 telling him that he needs other people and cannot achieve victory nor demonstrate his talents just by himself, and Kaito Momota mentioning that he'll start to think everything is boring if he constantly says they are. During such moments, he usually simply tells the other person they are being boring.

After three years have passed, there seems to be small progress in Izuru, even though he himself claims he doesn't feel any different. He comes to the festival out of his own free will and even gives Usami a back-handed compliment by stating that for once she talked like a teacher, implying that he may have some kind of respect for her. Chiaki also points out that him spending all this time with others instead of all alone must have made some sort of difference. After graduating, he thinks that everything went like he predicted and all the minor variances were just insignificant ripples, and that he can predict what happens next as well. However, he then appears hesitant and doesn't finish his thought process, and instead closes his eyes in silence.


Ultimate 
As a result of the experiments that were conducted on him, Izuru is said to possess every known talent that has been researched at Hope's Peak Academy, and thus appears to be a superhuman at the very least. For this reason, he was proclaimed to be the Ultimate Hope by the trustees of the Academy themselves, as ultimate talent is humanity's hope in their eyes. This is different from Makoto Naegi, who embodies the title in a more accurate sense, as his unusual optimism and determination is able to rally people to action.

The following is a description of various talents that make-up Izuru's talent of Ultimate hope.

Much like Junko's talent of Super High School Level Analytical Prowess, Izuru's analytical skills are borderline superhuman. He's able to predict things extremely quickly and with a surprising amount of accuracy, shown through his emotionless demeanor and quick reaction to when Junko suddenly tried to kill him in an effort to throw the world into despair. Izuru is also able to analyze/read people from the second he looks at them. This is seen during his second encounter with Nagito, where he quickly deduces Nagito's true character from looking at him, merely judging him as boring afterward.

Izuru possesses heightened physical strength, reflexes, and speed, to the point of being superhuman. This effectively grants him abilities similar to many of the athletic students (such as the Ultimate Gymnast Akane Owari or Ultimate Martial Artist Sakura Ogami), only to a significantly greater degree, as he is able to send Mukuro herself flying with a simple backhand when she tried to attack after he incapacitated Junko. Izuru was also able to barely dodge a bullet that he wasn’t able to see coming until the very last second.

Izuru is able to withhold his presence entirely at will, much like Yūto Kamishiro's talent of Super High School Level Secret Agent. Before and during the First Mutual Killing Game, Izuru is able to watch the members of Hope's Peak Academy's Student Council killing each other up close, as he was there with them. Despite this, none of the student council members notice Izuru at all until the very end, where he reveals himself.

Izuru is shown to have an excessive amount of good luck, to the point where it's able to rival Nagito Komaeda's own. Because of this, he is one of the very few people who are safe from the extreme backlashes of Nagito's luck. This is best shown when Izuru encounters Nagito himself, the latter aiming to shoot Junko. When Nagito tries to shoot Izuru, the gun jams due to Izuru’s luck beating out Nagito's own. However, when Izuru shoots Nagito, the bullet hit the latter's Student Handbook instead of killing him.

Izuru also has talents related therapy, neurology, and programming, which were the talents of the creators of the Neo World Program. After Hajime fused with Izuru's identity, he was able to use these skills to awake his comatose friends. He also created the Artificial Intelligence called the World Destroyer, who can fix mental instabilities inside the Neo World Program.

In the non-canonical bonus mode of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony: Ultimate Talent Development Plan, some examples of Izuru's talents encompassed under his title of Ultimate Hope include: talents related to psychology, negotiation, observation, and storytelling while he lists some of his own abilities related to speech. Several musical-based talents including singing, playing instruments (notably the piano), and songwriting. He also mentions possessing every talent related to fighting, and is capable of noticing when other people are lying.

It's notable that during his event with Kaede in the bonus mode, it's shown that Izuru has a major flaw of lacking "a heart" behind his actions due to his apathetic nature. While technically perfect, he doesn't put any feelings nor thoughts in his performances, as he doesn't have any true motivation to utilize his talents. This can be especially noticeable in artistic activities and can be noticed by those who are skilled and truly passionate about the subject.


Hope Cultivation 
Hope's Peak Academy was established for the sake of cultivating personal talent in order to create a perfect genius, who would be deemed the hope of mankind. For many years, the Academy researched the talents of the Ultimates. This project was named the Hope Cultivation Plan, though it was also called the Izuru Kamukura Project after the academy's founder.

Recently, the researchers were finally able to reach the experimental stage of the project. From there, they set their sights on the Reserve Course dropouts to use them as lab rats, as their plan to create talent artificially required test subjects that are wholly lacking in talent. From that group of Reserve Course students, the one who was finally chosen was Hajime, because he admired Hope's Peak Academy more than everybody else.

Hope's Peak Academy exploited Hajime's feelings of admiration toward hope and talent just to use him as a lab rat. All of his senses, emotions, thoughts, and hobbies that could interfere with acquiring talent were excised. All of his memories of the past were forcefully suppressed into the darkest recesses of his mind. By directly interfering with his brain, the academy transformed Hajime into a completely different person whose specialty is talent itself. He was meant to be the fruit of all the research, a genius among geniuses possessing various talents, and he was named Izuru Kamukura after the founder.

Izuru was known as the symbol of mankind's hope and he was given the title of Ultimate Hope. To protect such rare talent, the Academy completely concealed all evidence of Izuru's origins and identity. According to Izuru's words, he had "teachers" who taught him the Academy's ideology about talented people's superiority. It appears that he was mostly kept hidden inside dark and small rooms with little to no activities, and he was to be occasionally used by some people who needed his talents to create hope. However, Izuru was aware that he would merely be used and his talents would be "leeched off" for the sake of hope he finds predictable.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Despair 
Izuru, as the alternate identity of Hajime returns in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, where its story focuses on the story of the Remnants of Despair during The Tragedy.

Episode 06 - A Despairfully Fateful Encounter 
Hajime completed the transition to Izuru Kamukura, a person destined to be the Ultimate Hope, a master of all talents. His old personality, identity, and ideals were said to be overwritten in the process. After that, he was locked in a room whose access was restricted solely to the trustees of Hope's Peak Academy.

However, Junko tricked the retina scanner securing that room by using an eyeball she obtained from a kidnapped trustee. After meeting Izuru, she lamented over the fact that he is locked up, given his talents. She then suddenly attacked him, saying that as the Ultimate Hope, his death would leave everyone in despair. Izuru easily disarmed her, as well as her sister, Mukuro.

Laying on the ground before him, Junko explained that Izuru needs despair as much as she does. He replied saying that he didn't see any logical reason for the need of despair. Junko then asked him what the logical reason for her attacking him was. Izuru was aware of her analytical talent and knew that she knew an attack on his life wouldn't be successful. However, he didn't understand the reason behind her actions. Junko then gave a speech to him, saying that a world full of hope would be predictable and boring, and only the chaos that comes from despair can make it exciting.

After Junko urged him to join up with her, Izuru knocks her out by stomping on her head. Before he left the room, however, he told Mukuro that he will be waiting for Junko.

Episode 07 - The Biggest, Most Atrocious Incident in Hope's Peak Academy's History 
Junko made her way to Izuru's room and took him outside on the school grounds. She then brought him to where the Hope's Peak Student Council would participate in the first Mutual Killing Game. For most of the game, Izuru stood on the sidelines and observed the students, but at the end, he was finally noticed by one of the members, Asukasei Hino.

Izuru warned Asukasei that fighting him was impossible, seemingly convincing Asukasei to lower his gun - however, this only prompted him to attack with his chainsaw instead. Izuru easily evaded the attack and incapacitated Asukasei with a single blow, causing him to fall neck-first on his still-running chainsaw. He then turned to leave, only for the dying Asukasei to shoot a bullet which ended up grazing Izuru's cheek just enough to draw blood. Showing just a hint of surprise, Izuru examined the wound before looking up at a security camera, aware that Junko and Mukuro were observing him from the monitoring room.

Izuru was later shown when Junko was explaining her email to the Reserve Course about Hope's Peak's ulterior motive for the Reserve Students, kick-starting the the Parade.

Episode 08 - The Worst Reunion by Chance 
While Nagito's attempted to assassinate Junko before her plans to throw the world into despair could be realized, Izuru happened to stumble upon the confrontation in Ryota's secret room. Silently entering behind Nagito, he found himself staring down the barrel of the Ultimate Lucky Student's gun; however, the gun jammed when Nagito tried to fire. Coldly explaining that he too carried "Ultimate Luck", Izuru easily took the gun from Nagito and shot him in the chest, commenting on the strength of Nagito's luck when his Student Handbook blocked the bullet.

He then turned his attention to Chiaki, seemingly evoking a mutual recognition between them as she recognized him by his previous identity, Hajime.

Episode 09 - Chisa Yukizome Doesn't Smile 
Chiaki asks "Hajime" what he has done with his hair, and Izuru asks who she is. Junko interrupts them and says she wants to become friends with Chiaki. She wants to show Chiaki the brainwashing anime, but Chisa intervenes by throwing a fire extinguisher. She sees Izuru, and recognizes. Chisa ordered Chiaki to take Nagito and escape. When Chisa is captured and subjected to the brainwashing video. Izuru stands back and watches as Mukuro tries to weaken Chisa's resistance to the video. Izuru comments on how this is all boring.

Episode 10 - Smile at Despair in the Name of Hope 
After Chiaki's execution, she is left near death. Izuru comes in and Chiaki weakly stirs. She still refers to him as Hajime. Izuru asks if that's who he previously was Chiaki tries to get up, but slips and falls in her own blood. She says she is done for, and laments her failure to help anyone. Izuru observes that she still wants to help people, even in her current predicament. Chiaki cries that she doesn't want for die; she wants to stay with her class, and play games with Hajime.

Chiaki reaches out to Izuru, and says they could have played more games together, before she finally dies. Chiaki's hairpin dislodges and Izuru picks it up. He stares at it before he starts crying over her death, which makes him surprised.

Episode 11 - Goodbye, Hope's Peak Academy 
Izuru was seen in an abandoned room with Junko. Still keeping Chiaki's hairpin, he hid it on his back and commenting how happy Junko was. She says that she was very excited and declared that today will be the day Hope's Peak Academy falls and despair will take over the world. Izuru stayed with Junko and Mukuro and watches the chaos unfold.

Izuru asked Junko if she erased the memories of him from Class 77, and Junko says she has, and noted that it was an odd request to make. Izuru says he will erase his own memories. He tells Junko that if "her" wishes are able to overcome Junko's plans, and "they" are saved, hope may just be harder to predict than despair. Izuru said he wants to see which one will surprise him. Junko is irritated at Izuru's remark and maintained that despair is more unpredictable than hope.

Izuru said nothing as he starts to walk away, much to Junko's annoyance. She snapped if he is going to say a proper goodbye to her, but Izuru just says they will meet again.

At the end of the episode, Izuru and the Remnants of Despair are already inside the Neo World Program and returned to his previous identity, Hajime. It was revealed that the one who uploaded Alter Ego Junko on the program was himself, as he wanted to test which ones is more unpredictable, despair or hope.

The Tragedy of Hope's Peak 
Izuru kick-started The Tragedy when he, along with the fourteen members of Hope's Peak's student council, were used by Junko to participate in the first ever Mutual Killing Game known as The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy. The academy concealed the incident.

Junko claims that Izuru himself killed all 14 participants of the Mutual Killing Game (except for Sōshun Murasame). This is proved to be false in Danganronpa Zero and in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc, in which the student council members killed each other; Izuru was only responsible for killing Asukasei in self-defense. However, Junko manipulated the video recording to depict him as the mastermind of the Mutual Killing Game.

Danganronpa 
Izuru Kamukura does not personally appear in the story, but is mentioned throughout the novel several times.

After The Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy, from which he and Soshun Murasame were the only survivors, Izuru disappeared. He is believed to be the culprit of the school's tragedy, though it is hinted that this might not be the case. As his location is hidden and very few know about him, he is treated similar to a ghost story. He is mentioned by Junko (who was later revealed to be Mukuro Ikusaba in disguise). The Reserve Course's secret society tortures and murders two Steering Committee members in an attempt to find out Izuru's location and use his power to overthrow the school. Kyoko Kirigiri also tried to investigate him, but eventually was forced to give up due to the increasingly dangerous situation.

Before his death, one of the Steering Committee members reveals to Ryōko Otonashi that Izuru is hidden inside the old school building, and she heads there with the Super High School Level Secret Agent Yūto Kamishiro. The two find a secret passage which leads to an elevator and eventually a small hidden room where Izuru used to be kept in.

After lots of investigation, Yūto believes that Izuru is more like a victim and Junko might be the true culprit (which is confirmed in Danganronpa 3). Because he knows too much, Yūto is quickly murdered by Yasuke Matsuda, who then pretends to be Izuru to test amnesiac Ryōko's memory, only to soon give up and reveal that Izuru has left the place a long time ago.

During the 
While he is counted as an actual member of Ultimate Despair by the rest of the world, and was said to do all kinds of horrible things during the Tragedy, in actuality he was simply affiliated with it due to Junko convincing him of the unpredictability of despair, which piqued Izuru's interest.

Ultimately undecided between hope and despair, he had decided to merely observe the other members of Ultimate Despair. This was to decide whether Junko's despair or Chiaki's Hope would be in his interest.

After the death of Junko, Izuru, with the complicity of the other Remnants of Despair, set up a plan to allow Alter Ego Junko to take over their bodies through the Neo World Program. However, his personal goal was to witness the battle between hope and despair and choose which side to take once and for all.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Prologue - The Warriors of 
Izuru is mentioned during the prologue of the game when members of the Future Foundation are explaining The Tragedy to Komaru Naegi.

Chapter 5 - Absolute Despair 
In chapter 5, the Servant tells Monaca Towa that the Monokuma Kids informed him about a lone intruder in Towa City. This person is most likely Izuru, but Komeada does not remember him as Izuru had requested that Junko remove everyone's memory of him before the Tragedy.

Epilogue - The Changing World We 
Izuru is seen briefly in the animated portion of the epilogue; wheel-barreling Shirokuma and Kurokuma's head somewhere in Towa City before punching them and ripping their hard drives to get a basis for the Alter Ego Junko.

Izuru looks towards the city and walks away as the scene cuts out. He has no dialogue in this game and seems to have merely been observing the situation rather than playing a role.

Capture by Future 
At some point during the Tragedy, Makoto Naegi encountered him in an abandoned building, standing by a desk, implied to be Chiaki's, staring at a vase of flowers he apparently left on it. This ultimately led to his capture by the Future Foundation.

Danganronpa 2: Goodbye 
Chapter 0 - Heading to the School 
Izuru was first seen inside a boat in Chapter 0. Inside the boat, he was accompanied by Nagito, another of the Remnants of Despair, but they don't recognize each other. Izuru can easily tell the other boy's true character, but finds him boring.

Throughout the Killing 
After Izuru entered the Neo World Program, the program dug up the memories of Hajime and rebuilt his old personality from data from the past. Izuru knew this would happen.

Izuru lived throughout as Hajime. At the end of the last trial, he and Hajime had a face to face in the latter's subconscious. During which Izuru tried to drop Hajime into despair reproach him all his weakness and talentless with the purpose to persuade Hajime to choose GRADUATION and so allow the resurrection of Junko in the real world, but Hajime, with Chiaki Nanami's help, choose to not give up and perform the SHUTDOWN deciding to face the possibility of awakening as Izuru when he exits the game.

When he awakens, despite still having his memories as Izuru, he decides to stay on the island and live as Hajime. However, it is left unclear whether Izuru's personality was overwritten or simply mixed with Hajime's.

According to Junko, Izuru was the one who brought the Alter Ego Junko to the Neo World Program, which started the serial murders. Being the same person as him, Hajime is both the protagonist and antagonist. This is confirmed by reflecting on Izuru's words during Chapter 0. He mentions that he plans to use Junko, and says that he has her "contribution" in his pocket.

Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future 
Episode 06 - No Man is an Island 
Izuru appears to be active in Hajime's mind, as Hajime emotionlessly expresses his boredom after seeing approaching Future Foundation peacekeepers, ready to attack Jabberwock Island under Kyosuke Munakata's orders.

Episode 12- It is Always Darkest 
In the post-s, it shows Izuru/Hajime walking through a hallway with unconscious Future Foundation soldiers surrounding him.

Side - Hope: The Academy of Hope and Students of 
It is revealed that Izuru and Hajime's identities have merged together as one, as he recalled his memories prior to the project. His eye color has changed to represent both of the characters; he doesn't object to being called Izuru Kamukura, but he prefers to go by and identifies as Hajime Hinata, as shown in Danganronpa 2.

Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony 
Ultimate Talent Development 
In the non-canon alternative universe, Izuru is shown to enroll in Hope's Peak Academy, making him slightly more similar to an ordinary student. He is mentioned to be in the same class with the students who form the Class 77-B in the canon universe. According to him, he used to be called Ultimate Hope and is currently being neglected with no one giving him a purpose, and he appears to be waiting for someone to use his talents even when he knows that he is just being used and his talents are "leeched off" to create hope for the world. He appears to have a lack of identity, as he considers "Izuru Kamakura" what he is called instead of who he is, and he thinks he doesn't have a purpose unless he is given one.

For some reason, Usami acts as a some sort of supervisor for him, constantly telling him to join activities and be more social. Izuru often joins the activities and gets them over with as quickly as possible, just so that he doesn't have to deal with Usami. He has a tendency to analyze other students and point out their flaws whenever he bothers to interact with them, though they sometimes speak back to him and bring up his flaws, but he simply answers that their words are boring. The only people to catch his attention seem to be Kaede and Chiaki.

After three years, there seems to be small improvement in him, as he joins the Christmas Party out of his own will. He claims he doesn't feel like he's changed, but he does give Usami a backhanded compliment after she gives an inspiring speech. Izuru leaves the Academy, thinking to himself that everything was boring and predictable, yet he appears silent and hesitant after thinking about it more, indicating that something has changed in his way of thinking.

There is very little implication of him being Hajime in the past, though Chiaki continues to try talking and play video games with him even though he doesn't have much interest. Kokichi also mentions Izuru being kind of like a ghost and is surprised to meet him, asking him that isn't he supposed to be dead. Hajime also has his own course as a playable character, in which he chooses not to participate in the Izuru Kamakura Project, and he gets wise encouragement from Monomi instead of Usami.


True Identity:
Hajime 
The Izuru Kamukura Project pushed Hajime’s memories into the darkest recesses of his mind and effectively erased his personality. Although Izuru is a completely different person, however, he can still be recognized as Hajime Hinata by those who knew him prior to the project. Izuru himself eventually becomes aware of his true identity because of this. 

Although Izuru was at least aware of his previous identity as Hajime, it's been confirmed that his first sixteen years of his life as Hajime were removed from his memory, and thus he is unable to recall the memory of his past self. However, Hajime does exist within him at a subconscious level, allowing him to cry at Chiaki's death despite having no idea of who she was. In addition, the Neo World Program was able to dig up his past self in order to use as an avatar. During the conversation Izuru had with Nagito in Chapter 0, Izuru stated that "he will not be able to participate in what lies ahead", most likely a reference to that fact. 

Another hint to this can be the fact that during the final trial of the Killing School Trip, Makoto, Kyoko Kirigiri and Byakuya Togami were all surprised when it was revealed that Hajime and Izuru are the same person, despite the fact that they had already met and probably spoken with Izuru in the real world before putting him in the Neo World Program. It is also possible that when Izuru was secured and interrogated with the other Remnants of Despair by the Future Foundation, he presented himself as Hajime in order to hide his true identity and fool them, as Makoto and Kyoko did not know much information about Izuru Kamukura.

Ultimate Despair Members:
Junko 
In Danganronpa 2, Izuru is stated to be a Remnant of Despair and according to Junko he is also the culprit behind the Tragedy of Hope's Peak Academy. According to Junko, she made him join her by "breaking his spirit".

Though he seems to be an ally of Junko based on her words, in Chapter 0, Izuru acknowledges that she used him in the past and wants to use her like she used him. He also acts unusually angry and bitter while talking about her, showing that he now considers her an enemy. However, Izuru's true motives remain unclear.

Their relationship is explored a bit more in Danganronpa 3 - Despair Arc. Junko, at first, seemingly attempts to kill Izuru because of his status as the Ultimate Hope, but her true intention was to attack him knowing she couldn't win as a way to show despair's unpredictable nature and with this in mind, Izuru wishes to see more. She makes the student council kill each other and frames Izuru to show him what despair was, and eventually convinced him that a world of hope was boring and a world of despair was too unpredictable for even an Ultimate Analyst which makes life much more exciting. Izuru once protected Junko from Nagito after he attempts to kill her with a gun, showing that he was on Junko's side.

Junko believes that she and Izuru are destined for each other and perfect for spreading despair together, occasionally acting like an overly enthusiastic fan and flirting with him in a joking manner, though he is completely unresponsive and uninterested to this. She had far more respect for Izuru than the other Ultimate Despair members, considering him more of an ally instead of a servant.

After Chiaki's death, Izuru started to question Junko's way of thinking, and decided to leave her and test which better fit him: hope or despair. In the end, he never truly cared for her as a person, and was just affiliated with her to see how unpredictable despair is. In return, Junko saw him only as a tool in her hand, like the other members of Ultimate Despair, stating that she'll always find a use for him. It's implied that she used his interest for despair's and hope's unpredictability to manipulate him into doing what she wants, seen as when she used him to upload herself in the Neo World Program with the promise of an unpredictable battle between hope and despair.

As shown in Danganronpa 2s Chapter 0 and Another Episodes Epilogue, Izuru later feels unusual hatred and bitterness towards Junko because she used him in the past. It's also possible that he is subconsciously angry because she killed Chiaki.

Class 77-B:
Remnants of 
While Izuru is counted as an actual member of Ultimate Despair by the rest of the world, in actuality he was simply affiliated with it. As he remained undecided between hope and despair, he decided to stay with the other members of Ultimate Despair to witness Junko's despair. He doesn't seem to admire her like all the other members of Ultimate Despair do. This is most likely due to the fact that, unlike the other members, Junko was mainly trying to sway Izuru into joining her in filling the world with despair, instead of outright brainwashing him into doing so.

The only Remnant of Despair Izuru is seen interacting with is Nagito, who he finds completely boring. Though they met before once, Izuru had Junko erase all of the Remnants' memories of him, as he himself also erased his own memories of them.

However, since the Remnants of Despair entered the Neo World Program of their own will with the purpose of handing over their bodies to Alter Ego Junko in order to resurrect her, while Izuru personally installed Alter Ego Junko in the program, it can be presumed that they planned it together, with Izuru as the plot's mastermind.

It's also possible that at least Mikan Tsumiki knew Izuru, since after regaining her memories in Chapter 3, she claimed she knew who the traitor was, meaning she knew that all the others, including Hajime/Izuru, were members of the Ultimate Despair.

Chiaki 
Real-Life 
Izuru meets Chiaki for the first time in an underground room, after he stepped in to save Junko’s life from Nagito. Chiaki, recognizing him as Hajime, quickly tries to start a conversation with him, asking what happened to his hair in the year that passed since they’ve last seen each other. Izuru merely asked who she was in response, as he was unaware of the relationship that his past self had with her. However, he is seen staring into Chiaki’s eyes until Junko interfered and personally told him to stop, heavily implying that he is showing some sort of interest in her. This is most likely due to the fact that Chiaki is the only person he knows who recognized him by someone else, and he knew that the project that created him erased all his memories of who he previously was.

In Chiaki’s final moments, Izuru comes to see her for no known definite reason. He asks Chiaki if Hajime was his previous identity, to which Chiaki, in response, desperately tries to get him to remember her. Unfortunately, despite her attempts, Izuru is still unable to recognize her, stating that all of his previous memories were erased.

When Chiaki passes away, Izuru notices her hairpin and picks it up. Upon looking at it, he unconsciously begins to cry, which surprises him. This implies that he was able to remember her, just seconds after she died, as he then keeps the hairpin with him, carrying it as a way of remembering her. Even years after the incident, he says during his conversation with Nagito in Chapter 0 that the contribution that a person left to him still rest in his pocket, referring to Chiaki's hairpin. She seems to be the only person Izuru genuinely cared for, as Izuru still mourned over her during the Tragedy.

It was actually Chiaki who made Izuru question Junko's opinion of despair being unpredictable, therefore much more exciting. Remembering Chiaki's hope, Izuru lingered between hope and despair, and decided to test out which of the two better fit him. This is heavily implied to be the reason for him masterminding the events of the Killing School Trip.

Izuru has shown unusual hatred and bitterness towards Junko. It's possible that he is subconsciously angry because she killed Chiaki.

In Danganronpa V3's bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Chiaki is one of the only people to catch Izuru's interest and seems to be the closest thing he has to a friend, as it is mentioned they hang out enough for her to notice a difference in their win rate at video games. During the cultural festival, she greets him when he drops by her booth and invites him to play video games. Although he defeats her, she expresses happiness, which confuses Izuru. Chiaki then explains that while she's sad to have lost, she was happy to get to play with him; as long as they're friends, they can play multiple times, so she's sure she'll eventually beat him. She then challenges him to another round, and though he says he doesn't expect the outcome to be different, he accepts. In their third year, she thanks him for coming to the class Christmas party, with a nearby Usami noting it's the first time he's done so without having to be forced. He claims he only came to avoid unnecessary bother and that he hasn't particularly changed much. Chiaki suggests that maybe the distance between them has, pointing out their video game matches have grown closer among other things. As Izuru silently mulls this over, Usami adds that the old Izuru would never have come to a social event willingly, and if he hadn't chosen to attend Hope's Peak Academy, he wouldn't be who he is today. Izuru tells her that she actually sounds like a teacher for once, making Chiaki laugh and Usami pout over "for once".

AI 
It's strongly implied that Izuru knew about the AI of Chiaki that existed in the Neo World Program, and he installed the AI of Junko there in order to see which of the two would stand triumphant.

Nagito 
When Izuru first meets Nagito he attempted to kill him with a gun after the latter prepared to do the same to Junko. However, because of Nagito's luck, the bullet pierces his student handbook instead. Nagito appears almost immediately attracted to Izuru and Kazutaka Kodaka has described the scene as similar to a beautiful, elegant dance.

Both Izuru and Nagito joined Ultimate Despair in order to get a better look at the battle between hope and despair. Both of them also helped out with Junko and Monaca Towa's plots, respectively, for the very same reason, with Nagito heavily assisting Monaca with her plans by guiding Komaru to become a symbol of hope, and Izuru being the mastermind of the Killing School Trip.

When the two meet again (both as members of Ultimate Despair) they do not recognize each other, and while Nagito is very excited about Izuru's company, he merely thinks of him as a completely boring person. This was due to the fact that Izuru asked Junko to erase all memories of him, as he would later erase his own memories about Class 77-B.

In the end, after Hajime and Izuru's identities have mixed, Nagito recognizes him as Hajime and calls him by the name (though at first glance he assumed he is Izuru).


DR2DR3
Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair (English)

Chapter 0:

"I never thought not knowing what to expect could be so fun, so I was feeling rather excited. But I figured I'd get bored of that feeling soon enough... That's what I was expecting. For me...a person who is loved by talent... Detecting regularities among irregularities won't be that difficult. ...Ah, how boring."
"Instantly, I saw his true character. The overfamiliar attitude, the friendly smile... But under that skin, I could detect a foul, offensive odor, like some kind of putrid slime. In a sensible way, of course. Hwow should I put this... It was a smell exclusive to those who were already finished."
"Even I possess a talent as boring as luck."
"...How boring. Not you... ...This world. This world is full of boring people. People who lack talent stick together, and oppress those who do possess talent... Even though they know they're insignificant, they don't try to acknowledge their true superiors... They are profoundly desperate to drag them down to their level... And because of these bastards, this world has come to a deadlock. This world has stopped evolving. ...How boring. Well, the world is shaped by the will of the majority... It makes sense that it bends to those who lack talent. Boring people make no contributions to the world...not even a speck of dust. That's why my teachers taught me that a certain degree of selection must be performed."
"Listen well: using people is a talent, too. It is now my turn to use that person just as they used me in the past."
"...I have it with me. The contribution that person left to me... Even now, it rests in my pocket..."
"...What's going to happen? I can already predict what will happen. I already know because I am loved by talent. But...no matter what happens, it's of no concern to me. I will not be able to participate in what lies ahead."
"There is no reason we'll ever meet again. After all...you are boring... Your talent, your thoughts, your entire existence is boring to me..."

His first and last names are written in katakana, but the original Izuru Kamukura's names are written in kanji.
"Izuru" (as 出流), which literally means "out of the current", could also mean "to go out into exile". Both of these meanings could reflect how Izuru Kamukura was a unique existence which felt very secluded due to having no peers.
"Kamukura" (as 神座) means "a place in which a god resides" or "a seat for gods". This could reflect how Izuru was created to be a host for superhuman talent.
In Danganronpa 3, Izuru is described as deus ex machina ("god from the machine"), and the series creator Kodaka has described him as a "total god-mode character" and a "god-like entity".
Fitting his apathetic personality, he has no known likes or dislikes.
In the Japanese language, Izuru talks and expresses in a more polite way, unlike his alternate identity. For example, instead of referring to himself with the word 俺 (ore) like Hajime does, he uses the word 僕 (boku), which is a more polite, juvenile way for one to refer to themselves. Similarly, he uses the word 貴方 (anata) when talking to others; in contrast, Hajime uses お前 (omae) in the same context.
During the Killing School Trip, Alter Ego Junko told the students about Izuru and that speech is the main source of information on him. During this, however, she made several large contradictions when discussing Izuru. It seems likely that Junko did this to manipulate the students. This means that much of the information on him has very questionable accuracy.
Izuru is the only Remnant of Despair who was not brainwashed and accepted to help Junko of his own free will.
Technically, being the same person as Hajime Hinata, Izuru is the first character in Danganronpa series that has participated in two Mutual Killing Games and survived.
In Future Arc #03, Izuru is seen in an abandoned building, next to a table with a vase with flowers. Considering one of the flower is different from the other, it is implied that he was mourning Chiaki before Makoto arrived and takes him to custody.
Izuru's voice double for the English dub of Despair Arc, Micah Solusod, is married to Natsumi Kuzuryu's English voice actress Apphia Yu.

Taichi is a fair-skinned man that bears resemblance to his child. He has light brownish-blonde fluffy hair and light yellow-green eyes. He wears light gray glasses, a long-sleeved, white striped buttoned shirt, which is stained, implying that he has already been on the run for quite some time. He also wears long dark green pants and brown slip-ons.

His age is approximately late-30s to 40 years old.


Taichi is a silent and meek man, who is great with technology, especially computers. He is highly intelligent, but he lacks physical strength and appears to be quite timid. Similarly to his child, he is gentle, supportive and very willing to help others.

According to the Warriors of Hope, he doesn't care much for the seductive tricks they use. He is described as "frail and unreliable, yet a kind father".

He loved his child and wife very much. In his note, Taichi describes his desire to escape Towa city so he can find his wife and child. He explains that he must do his job as a father and husband, make sure his family is okay and give them a life they deserve. In the end, his last regret is not being able to see his child for one last time.


Prior to The 
Taichi raised Chihiro to be a great computer expert like himself, and after Chihiro was sent off to Hope's Peak Academy, Taichi continued his normal life.

During The 
Taichi was captured by the Ultimate Despair and became a Captive for Monokuma's first motive in the Mutual Killing incident of Class 78. He was apparently enclosed in an apartment just like the other Captives.

He was later freed, only to become one of the people targeted by the Warriors of Hope. After becoming a Target, he went into hiding as the Monokuma Kids and Monokumas were after him.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Chapter 2 - Legend of a 
Taichi is found by Komaru and Toko in the fourth floor of Towa Tower while he was busy with his laptop (which he picked at the city's electronics store), in an attempt to find a way to remove his wristband. He accidentally surprised Toko, making her fall off the stairs. When the situation calmed down, Taichi confessed that he was hiding from the kids. After finding out that Komaru is a Target as well, he felt sorry and apologized to her because he can't program something to remove the wristband sooner and they can't be saved as long as they had their wristbands.

Komaru denied it because they would contact the Future Foundation for help. Komaru explained her goal to Taichi, and he understood and knew that the elevator wouldn't move. When Komaru said it needed a specific card, he couldn't really talk freely about it. He wanted to offer his help to move the elevator since he was an architect of security system programs in the place, but he's reluctant because there's no way Komaru and Toko would want help from a stranger. After Komaru insisted him, he agreed to help them.

After reaching the elevator, Taichi found out that the elevator had the newest security system. When he just barely started to hack the system, Junk Monokumas appeared, forcing Komaru and Toko to cover the man until he finished his task. After the Monokumas were defeated, Taichi successfully functioned the elevator. He was really thankful for Komaru and Toko because he finally started to see a ray of hope - if the connection is good, the Future Foundation would come to aid them for sure. Unfortunately, when the elevator opened, a Beast Monokuma emerged, attacking the girls and heavily injuring Taichi's chest.

After the defeat of the Monokumas, a bleeding Taichi apologized to Komaru and Toko for not being able to accompany them until they reach the top, but he was sure that the girls would be fine. He proceeded to tell them that he has a child around their age, but they got separated from the time being and his last regret is that he couldn't see his child nor do anything for his sake. Komaru and Toko were left speechless from these words.

Komaru then found a handbook near Taichi's body. Inside the handbook, Komaru saw a photo of him and his child. Toko then realized that Taichi was the father of Chihiro Fujisaki, one of the participants of the Killing Game of 78th Class that didn't survive the game. Komaru mourned the man who sacrificed himself for them but quickly decided to keep moving forward, and Toko agreed.


Chihiro 
Chihiro is Taichi's child. Taichi was the one who taught Chihiro all he know's about technology and seemed to love him dearly. In his note, he calls Chihiro his "beautiful child". He appeared accepting of Chihiro's cross-dressing, though it's unknown if he knew his child's reasons for it.

Taichi was frustrated that he was unable to do anything for Chihiro after having been separated from him and presumably would have been devastated if he knew of his death. In a Danganronpa V3 Bonus Mode Event with Hiyoko Saionji, Chihiro tells Hiyoko that he received a Christmas present from his father, and was embarrassed that it was brought directly to the school. Hiyoko scolds Chihiro, feeling jealous of Chihiro's close relationship with his father, and tells him to go accept the gift or throw it away. Chihiro agrees to accept it and says he will go and thank his father properly.

Komaru 
Taichi and Komaru, despite only knowing each other for a little while, seemed to get along quite well. Their relationship could be identified as the same as Chihiro and Makoto Naegi's, as both Makoto and Komaru were devastated when they died.

Toko Fukawa 
Taichi and Toko were not seen interacting with each other besides their meeting. However, Toko did seem shocked when she discovered Chihiro and Taichi were related and was presumably devastated when she witnessed his "demise."


"Wait a sec... you're not a kid, right?"
"Ah! Don't shoot! I swear I won't hurt you guys!"
"After everything...it just had to be here. Out of everywhere on Earth, it had to be Towa to end up like this."
"I used to work in security. Well, I say security... What I actually did was architect security system programs. For someone like me, this place was truly something special."
"My family used to think I was pretty unreliable too..."
"Before we go any further, I really need to thank you guys. Thanks to you two girls, I'm finally starting to see hope. If the connection works well, I'm sure Future Foundation will come to us immediately. And when that happens, we're saved! We're finally saved! We should even be able to see our families again! It's gonna be alright, just a little bit more! Let's keep it up and-"
"I-I'm sorry, it's just as I thought... I really am unreliable... I... I didn't mean to make you guys go it alone... B-But you guys will be fine! No need to worry, you'll be saved for sure! I'm glad I could... at least be a little help to you guys..."
"I have a child, y'know... You guys are all around the same age... But we got separated, and... A-And all this time, I couldn't do anything... I... I wasn't able to see... Just one last time... That's my only regret..."

"Taichi" (太市) is composed of the kanji 太 - meaning "plump" (as well as "well" or "healthy", figuratively) and 市 - which means "market" of "city". The name as a whole could therefore mean something along the lines of "prosperous city" or "prosperous market".
"Fujisaki" (不二咲) means "two blossoms not yet bloomed".
Taichi has experience in a job that was somehow related to security.
In the original Japanese dub of the game, Taichi shares his voice actor with Chihiro (as well as Alter Ego, consequently).
The laptop Taichi had allowed Komaru to use to talk with her brother, just like the laptop Chihiro had housed Alter Ego in, ultimately helped the students escape.
Taichi's "Demon name" is derived from a combination of his given name and the word ちんちん chinchin, which is a children's term for "penis" - making the name quite offensive.
Ironically, the name also indirectly refers to Chihiro's circumstances in a mocking fashion.
Tai (大) means "big", making his full Demon name mean "big penis".
Yuta is a tan skinned boy who has short, brown hair and blue eyes. He is around the same age as Komaru Naegi, but slightly younger, most likely around the age of 14-15.

He wears a white tank top under his teal-blue track jacket with a sign that reads "dog can go like 3 cups rice dog oh love since 1981." on it. It is unknown what the saying means.

Yuta also wears beige shorts, red sneakers, and bright yellow socks. A black bracelet with a red stripe and a red Monokuma eye on it is present on his left wrist.


Yuta is energetic and cheerful, even in difficult situations. He appears very friendly. He is also very naive and rather oblivious to most things.

He appears to like sports and used to be part of his school's track and field team. Yuta is shown to be extremely confident in his swimming skills, though he admits that his sister has always been better than him.

Similar to his sister, Yuta isn't very smart and can be headstrong. As stated by Toko Fukawa, "like idiot sister, like idiot brother."


During the 
Yuta was captured by the Ultimate Despair and became a Captive for Monokuma's first motive in the Mutual Killing incident of Class 78. He was apparently enclosed in an apartment just like the other Captives.

He was later freed, only to become one of the people targeted by the Warriors of Hope.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair 
Chapter 1 - Crying for Love in 
Yuta met Toko and Komaru on the bridge where they were attempting to escape Towa City. It was there that Komaru saw that Yuta had a similar bracelet to the one placed upon her by the Warriors of Hope. He then introduced himself, which made Toko shocked upon hearing his last name. He also wrote Komaru's name on his palm 3 times, because he thought it's the best way to remember people's names.

Upon discovering that half of the bridge had collapsed, Yuta broke down, and lost his spirit. However, Toko told him that they needed to keep moving in order to survive, which motivated Yuta to returned to the city before the other side of the bridge collapsed.

Suddenly, they were ambushed by some Monokuma Kids who intended to destroyed the remains of the bridge with the three on it. While the bridge was successfully blown apart, the three escaped to safety. Not dismayed by the fallen bridge, Yuta decided that he would swim out of Towa City.

Komaru asked Yuta if it was really far to the other shore, added by Toko that maybe some strange creatures living in the sea because of the pollution, but Yuta answered self-confidently that the only thing that he needed was to be careful. Toko tried to stop him, but Yuta had already made up his mind.

Upon leaving the city limits, Yuta's bracelet began to beep rapidly and soon exploded, killing him. In the profile card, it is said that he turned into bits of seaweed. It is stated that he was later drowned when he triggered a Monokuma Bracelet.

The Hit List Targets entry about him compiled by the Warriors of Hope, where he is given the "Demon name" of Yutax states that he has been staying near Towa City's Great Bridge for some time before meeting Komaru and Toko.


Main article: Swimming Explosion Episode


Family:
Aoi 
Though they're never seen interacting, it's been confirmed that Yuta was the closest person to Aoi, as he became her Captive. Though he himself is a good swimmer, Yuta acknowledges that his sister was always better.

Allies:
Komaru 
Yuta traveled with Komaru and Toko through The Tragedy for a limited time, before he died. He seems to be friendly with Komaru, and takes great joy in showing off to her. During the time he spent with Toko and Komaru, he showed being somewhat relieved that he wasn't the only one with a similar bracelet to Komaru, but quickly remarked that their situation could've been better. Before he died, he comforted Komaru and Toko by promising to bring back help.

Toko 
Yuta seems to respect her and tries to comfort her at times. She tends to tease and insult him, however, due to his relation to Aoi, who Toko was not very fond of. Ironically, she worried about him at times for the same reason.


"Ahh, it's been so long since I've seen decent human beings! I'm super happy!"
"Ah! Speaking of which, I haven't introduced myself! I'm Yuta Asahina!"
"Now isn't the time to be frightened!"
"I'll come back with them at any cost, so wait for me until then, okay?" (to Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa)

Yuta has several similarities to his older sister; he excels at swimming, has an upbeat demeanor, and remembers people's names by writing them on the palm of his hand three times with his finger.
Yuta was originally planned to be roughly 12-year-old boy with jet black hair.
Yuta shares his English voice actress, Michelle Ruff, with Jataro Kemuri.

 [show] v • e
GAME CHARACTERS
Categories:
Characters Danganronpa Another Episode Characters Hit List Targets Male Deceased Executed Maintenance: Article Revamp Add category
Languages:
Deutsch  Español  Français  Polski  Русский
Recent Wiki Activity
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Monokuma
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Leon Kuwata
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Celestia Ludenberg
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Chiaki Nanami
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago








Search

LogicalShark
1
START A WIKI
 ダンガンロンパ
ダンガンロンパ
1,164
PAGES
ADD
COMMUNITY
Wiki Activity
Random page
Community
Videos
Images
FORUM
in:
Maintenance: Fanslation Removal Needed, Characters, Danganronpa V3 Characters, and 7 more
Kaede Akamatsu
English

 
SHARE
Kaede Akamatsu	Gallery	Sprites	
FTE Guide Sonia Mini Pixel	This article contains FANSLATIONS and needs to be updated to official translations.	FTE Guide Sonia Mini Pixel


Kaede Akamatsu
Illustration Sprite
 Illustration
Name
Aliases & Titles
Talent
Characteristics
Gender
Female Female
Height
167cm (JP)
5'8" (ENG)
Weight
53 kg (117 lbs)
Birth Date
♈ March 26
Chest Size
90 cm (35")
Blood Type
O
Likes
Piano keys
Dislikes
Bicycles
Family
Killing Game Status
Personal Status
Debuts
Portrayals

"	I love seeing the expressions people make when they're enjoying themselves. That's why I play piano... To see the smiles on everyone's faces. And that's why we need to expose the mastermind and end this dumb killing game! So we can smile with everyone else!

— Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
"
Kaede Akamatsu (赤松 楓 Akamatsu Kaede) is a character featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony and a participant in the Killing School Semester.

Kaede has the title of Ultimate Pianist (超高校級の「ピアニスト」 chō kōkō kyū no "Pianisuto" Super High School Level Pianist), owing to her prowess in playing the piano since childhood and winning various awards.

Contents[hide]
History
Early Life
The Gofer Project
Killing School Semester
Introduction
Attempting the Death Road of Despair
The First Motive and the Hidden Door
The Additional Motive
Kaede's Plan
Uncovering the "Truth"
Kaede's Fate
Kaede's Wish
Uncovering the Truth
Creation and Development
Name
Alternate Fates
Appearance
Personality
Talent and Abilities
Ultimate Pianist
In other languages
Enhanced Hearing
Relationships
Shuichi Saihara
Rantaro Amami
Kaito Momota
Maki Harukawa
K1-B0
Miu Iruma
Kokichi Oma
Angie Yonaga
Tsumugi Shirogane
Korekiyo Shinguji
Kirumi Tojo
Tenko Chabashira
Free Time
Presents
Quotes
List of Appearances
Trivia
References
Navigation
History 
Early 
Before Joining Danganronpa
Danganronpa V3 CG - Pre-Game Kaede Akamatsu reaccounting her kidnapping
Kaede Akamatsu was a fan of a series featuring Killing Games, Danganronpa, created by Team Danganronpa. In her audition video, she revealed that she wants to join the Killing Game because she believed that she had the perfect personality for it, not having any faith in humanity whatsoever.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Pre-Game Students in their talent outfits (Vita) (1)
Kaede, along with the other talentless 53rd Killing Game participants undergo the fabrication process, where all of their past memory and personality were permanently fabricated. She also received the talent and title of Ultimate Pianist. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all around the world. After the fabrication process was complete, Kaede and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as a totally different person, officially commencing the 53rd Killing Game season known as the Killing School Semester.

During her high school days, Kaede attended Shining Star International High School (光星国際アカデミー). However, it is unclear if this memory of her is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. It is also said that she had a younger twin sister who was adopted by a relative, but it is also unknown whether this is genuine or fabricated.

Fabricated Past
Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaede Akamatsu talking about her childhood
After she successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Kaede's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

Since she was a child, Kaede has been playing the piano so much so that she would forget to eat and sleep at times. As a result, people began to give her the nickname "piano freak". Before long, she began winning contest after contest, garnering praise from many people and earning her the title of Ultimate Pianist.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Kaede and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Kaede was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participant, Kaede and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Kaede chose to forget about her Ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Kaede and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Kaede and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, the true Mastermind, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, were actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush however, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

It should be noted that Kaede has no complete recollection of the event, as she was executed before she could ever recall anything about the Ultimate Hunt or the Gofer Project from later Flashback Lights.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - Pre-Game Kaede Akamatsu exiting the locker (1)
Kaede woke up in a locker within an eerie classroom, overgrown with vegetation, on the second floor of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles. Upon stumbling out of the locker and bumping her head, she collected herself and tried to figure where she was and what was going on. Before she could do too much however, a boy stumbled out of the locker next to the one she woke up in. The two got acquainted with each other, with the boy introducing himself as Shuichi Saihara, before they headed out into the hallway. However, as soon as they left the classroom they were found by a large mechanical monstrosity known as an Exisal, which chased them until they both got to the first floor, only to run into more of the robots.

The pair continued to evade the large mechanical monstrosities, not realizing that they were being led towards the gymnasium, where fourteen other high schoolers had already gathered. Not long after, all five Exisals appear once again and threaten the participants. However, after the ones controlling them realized that they weren't supposed to be using them just yet and that they had gone off-script, the five mysterious individuals exited the Exisals and introduced themselves as the Monokuma Kubs. The Kubs give the sixteen participants a new set of clothes before giving them their first memory via the Flashback Light. Kaede and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. She also received the talent and title of Ultimate Pianist. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Kaede and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd Killing Game season known as the Killing School Semester.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaede Akamatsu exiting the locker (1)Kaede once again woke up in the same locker as before, along with Shuichi. The two had no recollection of their previous meeting and as such, reintroduced themselves, both now under the impression that they were Ultimate students due to the new memory they had been given. Kaede believed herself to be the Ultimate Pianist, and Shuichi believed himself to be the Ultimate Detective. The pair explored the seemingly abandoned school, finding and introducing themselves to all fourteen other students before being told by the Monokuma Kubs to assemble at the gymnasium. Kaede and Shuichi, along with everyone else, headed there immediately and were introduced to the Monokuma Kubs properly, along with their father, the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, Monokuma. Monokuma announces that all sixteen Ultimate students would participate in a Killing Game, much to a majority of the students shock, horror, or displeasure. Kaede was exceptionally outraged by this announcement, declaring to Monokuma and his cubs that they would never participate in a Killing Game. Her bold declaration fell on deaf ears, as the robotic bears continued to laugh at and taunt the participants. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.
Attempting the Death Road of 
Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaede Akamatsu reading the Monopad After Monokuma commenced the Killing Game, Kaede read the Killing Game rules on her Monopad. The disturbing rules baffled all of the students, causing a discord among the group. Kaede who saw this immediately stopped them, saying that they should cooperate together instead of fighting if they wanted to escape. As Kaede proposed a sound and straightforward argument, everyone's heart was able to become one, all thanks to her speech. Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Kaede along with her friends immediately followed the Ultimate Entomologist's lead, with a hope of finding a way out. Danganronpa V3 CG - The students despairing at failing the Death Road of Despair (1)Descending the manhole, Kaede and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Kaede and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Kaede, who blamed herself for making everyone break up, was comforted by Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, and Shuichi, both of which still completely supported her ideals.
As the nighttime announcement broadcasted, everyone including Kaede returned to their dorm room. When Kaede returned to her room, she found a key which was supposedly for her dorm. Monokid gave the key to Kaede to give her access to her room while also giving her a "hint", which was that if she stole someone else's key she will get the chance to kill someone. Kaede got increasingly irritated and scared Monokid to make him flee.

The First Motive and the Hidden 
The next day, Kaede went to the dining hall after everyone else did and was greeted by Kokichi who in turn for his rebellion towards the group's harmony, created a "kind" lie that made the group consolidate again. Afterwards, Monokuma came to the cafeteria and announced the first motive, anyone who committed the first killing will graduate without holding a trial, effectively calling it a "First Blood Perk". Kaede still boldly declared that they wouldn't lose to Monokuma and that they had promised each other to escape together. Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ???, pointed out that this was used to invalidate the cooperative game by Kaede and make it into a noncooperative game where the players don't work. Kaito meanwhile, became increasingly outraged with Monokuma for doing whatever he wanted and lunged at him. This caused the Monokuma Kubs to show up, showing no hesitation to punish the Ultimate Astronaut with the Exisals for attempting violence against their father, effectively breaking the rules. The red Exisal charged at him but accidentally ended up crushing Monokuma instead, supposedly destroying him. The Monokubs were incredibly saddened by the sudden demise of their father, stating that he had no spare and that he was one of a kind. Upon learning this, the participant's mood improved greatly, thinking the Killing Game to be over. Kaede however, was still skeptical, but this skepticism was met with accusation of her wanting to continue the Killing Game from some of the participants, much to Kaede's dismay.

Kaede returned to her room and began to cry silently. A moment after that, Shuichi came to her room, telling that her beliefs are not wrong at all. In fact, Kaede was the only person Shuichi trusted enough to share his secret with. Once Kaede visited the library with the Ultimate Detective, he pushed one of the bookshelves aside to reveal a hidden door, much to her surprise. Due to the nature of the hidden door, Shuichi speculated that someone among the group was actually working with Monokuma, much to Kaede's shock and disbelief. Shuichi was just as stunned as she was and decided to test his own theory by sprinkling some dust within the card reader slot of the hidden door to see if someone was really going in and out of that door without anyone noticing. Kaede and Shuichi leave the library after putting the bookshelf back into place and head back to their respective dorm rooms.

The Additional 
Danganronpa V3 CG - Monokuma telling the students the first motiveKaede once again joined everyone else in the dining hall the next morning, only to find that Monokuma had, in fact, returned, much to the dismay of the students, but to the joy of the Monokuma Kubs. Monokuma goes on to reveal the additional motive, that if a murder did not occur within two days by noon, everyone who was forced to participate would be killed. Despite Kaede's best efforts to try and keep everyone together, a majority of the group seemed too depressed to stay united and left the dining hall.
Shuichi once again took Kaede to the library and revealed the hidden door to her. Both discovered that the dust that had been planted in the card reader dust by Shuichi had fallen onto the ground, indicating that someone had used the card reader to enter through the hidden door. With this information confirmed, Shuichi hypothesized he stated that with the way Monokuma worded the additional motive that he was trying to protect someone and that the hidden door may be connected to Monokuma's revival. He then went on to state that if someone was being protected by Monokuma, and had the ability to create a spare of him, that they were the mastermind of the Killing Game.

Kaede was horrified to think that the one responsible for all their suffering was one of them but thought to herself that there's no way she could forgive such a person. Shuichi extrapolated that the mastermind might come to the hidden room if they needed to create a huge amount of Monokuma's. Kaede made up her mind and decided to believe in Shuichi's detective work and take the risk with him despite being warned by him that it's just his deduction and that he could very well be wrong. After reapplying the dust to the card reader slot, they both left the library once again and returned to their rooms.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Nail Brush Scene (2)In a bonus scene during Chapter 1, Kaede would meet up with Tsumugi Shirogane, the Ultimate Cosplayer, in the game room and asked her to paint her nails in return for giving Tsumugi a nail brush earlier. Kaede was happy with Tsumugi's work, but then Rantaro walked in and claimed that he could do nail art as well, which he proved by then painting Kaede's nails, much to her embarrassment and Tsumugi's jealousy.
Kaede's 
Kaede woke up the next morning to someone ringing her room's doorbell. She answered it, expecting it to be Shuichi, only for it to be Monokuma telling her that her Research Lab had opened up. Annoyed, she slammed the door in his face, only for the bell to ring again. She told the one ringing the bell to go away, expecting it to be Monokuma only for it to actually be Shuichi this time, to whom she apologized immediately for her behavior. Shuichi had come to her with a plan in order to catch the mastermind, finding it safer to catch them from a distance instead of hiding out in the library.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara begging Miu Iruma to build cameras (3)Hoping to catch the mastermind, Kaede and Shuichi begged Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor, to make them cameras to set up in the library. They retrieved parts for Miu to make the cameras from the warehouse. While there, Kaede began to worry. She pondered whether or not this plan would really be able to save everyone. With this worry on her mind, she put the disposable cameras, along with a shot put ball, in her backpack. Pushed by the motive presented by Monokuma, Kaede planned to murder the mastermind and save everyone from the Killing Game without telling Shuichi.
In the morning before the time limit hit, Kaede and Shuichi met Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, who informed the duo that there was a fight between students in the dining hall. Originally, Kaede was supposed to retrieve the modified camera from Miu along with Shuichi, but this problem forced Kaede to split from Shuichi and head to the dining hall with Angie. There, she found that Ryoma Hoshi, the Ultimate Tennis Pro, would willingly let himself be killed so that everyone else could survive. Kaede tried to get him to reconsider, telling him that they'd escape together, but he didn't believe there was any more time left for idealism now. Rantaro stopped him and said that he would end the Killing Game in his own way and told everyone not to do anything unnecessary. Listening to this, Kaede's determination to save her friends became even stronger.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara checking the basement
She left the dining hall to meet up with Shuichi in the classroom next to the basement. She listened to Shuichi's explanation as to why he chose this particular classroom to keep watch before heading to the library to set up the cameras. During their setup process, Kaede left the air duct open and arranged the books on top of the shelf in a staircase-like manner. She also taped down the hidden camera aimed at the hidden door exceptionally well and turned the flash on, hoping to lure the mastermind into the path of the murder weapon that she had set up, killing them and saving everyone. All the while, Shuichi never noticed a thing.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaede Akamatsu cheering up Shuichi Saihara (2)
After finishing their setup, the two headed back to the lookout classroom that Shuichi had picked out to keep watch and wait. While waiting for the sensor to react, Shuichi told Kaede about how he earned the title of the Ultimate Detective, a marking point where he began to be afraid of searching for the truth. Kaede told him that she was actually afraid, but with Shuichi standing by her side, she didn't hesitate to catch the mastermind. She told him that he needs to hold his head up high, and the fact that she believed in him effectively gave Shuichi the courage and strength that he needed.

Not long afterward, the monitors turned on and began to play an eerie soundtrack, signaling that the time limit was almost over. Around this time, Kaede and Shuichi also witnessed seven people heading into the basement, which were Gonta, Kaito, Tenko Chabashira, Maki Harukawa, Himiko Yumeno, Angie, and Rantaro. Shuichi, worried that they might stumble upon the trap they had set up in the library, headed down into the basement to check on the group, leaving Kaede alone. She quickly grew anxious without Shuichi by her side and began to sweep the classroom for no reason at all. She became relieved when he came back, but it was not long after that that the buzzer in Shuichi's hand went off, indicating that someone had moved the shelf hiding the hidden door in the library. He rushed out of the classroom with great haste, but Kaede used this opportunity to roll her shot put ball into the air duct that led into the library before quickly chasing after him. She hoped that her shot put ball would hit her target who is none other than the mastermind behind the Killing Game.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Hidden Camera Photo (1)
Once they reach the basement, they are joined by Kaito and Tenko, who tells the duo that they should join their strategy meeting. Kaede tells them that they might really be able to end the Killing Game, and so they join them and storm the library. They notice the bookshelf concealing the hidden door closing again as they enter and go to inspect it. As soon as they do, they come upon Rantaro's corpse not far from the hidden door's position, who seemed to have been bludgeoned in the back of the head with Kaede's shot put, much to Kaede's shock and horror.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 1 Body Discovery
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 1 Body Discovery

Tenko's scream alerted the people in the game room, while the body discovery announcement alerted everyone else who had yet to arrive. Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs appear not long after and tells the culprit to step forward and claim their "First Blood Perk", but Kaede refused, not wanting to leave everyone behind. As a result of no one stepping forward, Monokuma scraps the First Blood Perk and holds a Class Trial anyways, telling everyone to investigate, then hands out the Monokuma File. Kaede quickly comes to terms with the fact that she killed a dear friend. Despite this, she still encourages everyone to come together and search for the truth, not wanting Rantaro to have died for nothing.

In reality however, her plan failed. Rantaro's true killer is The Mastermind of the Killing School Semester who covered up and altered the crime scene to make it seem as if Kaede's plan had succeeded. Despite this, the truth is obscured from everyone while Kaede is set up as the culprit. Not realizing this, the participants search for a truth that had been painted over with lies by Monokuma and The Mastermind.

Uncovering the "Truth"
During the investigation, Kaede and Shuichi decide to continue working together, questioning everyone and uncovering clues. When they heard from Korekiyo Shinguji that Tsumugi left the dining hall to use the restroom, Kaede became suspicious and decided to head back to the library to question her. When she did and asked her if she could have disguised herself as someone, Tsumugi took her to the first-floor girl's bathroom and asked Kaede to give her her clothes so she could dress as her. Once she did, Kaede saw Tsumugi's cospox, effectively meaning that she couldn't have disguised herself. Kaede was very shocked by this but was convinced that Tsumugi had a solid alibi.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Tsumugi Shirogane showing she can't cosplay real peopleOnce the main investigation is completed, everyone gathers in the warehouse where Monophanie had developed the photo's from the hidden cameras. The group looks through each and every photo, but find no clues to the culprit or the mastermind, like Kaede was hoping for. She becomes increasingly more anxious, wanting to reveal the mastermind during the Class Trial, but not intending to keep her crime hidden. Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaede Akamatsu encouraging Shuichi Saihara to not fear the truth
Afterwards, the investigation ends, and the group gathers at the Shrine of Judgement in the courtyard. They step into the newly revealed elevator and descend to the Class Trial grounds. While they were on the elevator, Kaede told Shuichi not to avert his eyes from the truth anymore and that he had to fight for it even if it is frightening. She tells him that if he was scared, he should borrow the strength of those who would be there to help him and let that be his strength, believing that Shuichi is capable of doing such thing.

Kaede's 
Saihara revealed Akamatsu as the culprit
During the Class Trial, Kaede had no intention of hiding her sins from everyone but wanted to unveil the identity of the mastermind beforehand. However, an unexpected turn of events occurred when Shuichi discovered the supposed "truth" that Kaede murdered Rantaro, but refused to speak about that fact as to not condemn his friend. Unfortunately for him, this act of silence, as well as forgetting to mention the camera intervals to Kaede before-hand, caught the suspicion of nearly everyone else in the trial and he is quickly denounced as the culprit. As a result, Kaede is left with no other choice but to protect him, mentally apologizing to everyone for being unable to reveal the mastermind and save everyone. Shuichi realizes this, and vows to no longer be afraid of the truth and reveals her as the "culprit" to everyone else in the trial.

Everyone is shocked and in utter disbelief that Kaede, who wanted to end the Killing Game and save everyone, could be the culprit. Despite this, she goads Shuichi along as to make him reveal the whole truth about her plan, much to everyone's dismay.

After everyone casts their vote, Kaede comes clean fully and admits that she planned to kill the mastermind in order to save everyone and end the Killing Game and that she never intended to hide her sins, but couldn't come clean right away thanks to Monokuma's First Blood Perk. Shuichi is quick to blame himself for coming to the deduction that the mastermind would be in the library, giving Kaede that idea, but she corrects him and says that she brought this upon herself. Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs are quick to execute her, but Kaito, Tenko, and Gonta immediately jump to her defense despite facing an Exisal. Kaede urges them to stop, saying that she's ready to die. Shuichi criticized her for giving up, but she reassured him that he isn't. She told him that she believed in him and as such, he should believe in himself before being dragged to her execution, which everyone watched in horror. Shuichi was left shattered at the loss of his dear friend.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 1 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 1 Execution

Danganronpa V3 CG - Shuichi Saihara imagining Kaede Akamatu's spirit playing the piano
After the trial, Shuichi, with Kaito's recommendation, visited the Ultimate Pianist's Research Lab. He looked along the wall lined with CD's and plays Claude Debussy's Clair de Lune via the audio player and began to reminisce about Kaede. He made a vow to not look away from the truth anymore and believe in himself, and that that was a promise. Shuichi imagined Kaede's spirit appearing on the chair of the piano and saying "Yup, it's a promise. I leave everything to you Shuichi. Goodbye...", effectively trusting him with her wish.

Kaede's 
Saihara doesn't wear his hatDespite the fact that Kaede was dead and gone, she was not forgotten. Her desire to end this Killing Game no matter what, to protect everyone, escape, and remain friends afterward had a profound impact on everybody. Shuichi took off his hat the very next morning after the first trial in memory of his dear friend and had her seemingly on his mind throughout the entire Killing Game.
When first entering the Ultimate Anthropologist's Research Lab in Chapter 3, Korekiyo asked Shuichi if he wanted to try speaking to the dead. Shuichi denied this but then thought that there was one person he would want to speak to, that person being Kaede. He still turned Korekiyo down, as there was only one thing that he wanted to tell her, which would be that everyone had escaped and that they were alive.

When everyone headed back into the tunnel to reattempt the Death Road of Despair in Chapter 5, using Miu's electrohammers, the remaining survivors aside from Kokichi thought back to Kaede and how they could finally keep their promise to her and escape the Killing Game before heading into the tunnel.

Uncovering the 
While not physically present during the final trial, Rantaro's case, the case that Kaede was supposedly the blackened of and executed for, is re-opened by survivors Shuichi, Tsumugi, Maki, Himiko, and K1-B0 after discovering new truths related to that case.

During the Class Trial, Shuichi is eventually able to reveal the full truth about Rantaro's death, as well as Kaede's unjust execution, becoming increasingly outraged and furious at Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs for breaking their own rules and executing someone who wasn't blackened in the first place. Shuichi vowed on Kaede's kindness, love, and grave, that he would avenge her no matter what. By double-checking everyone's alibis during Rantaro's murder, Shuichi honed in on Tsumugi as the true culprit of Rantaro's murder, as well as the mastermind of the Killing School Semester.

Kaede Akamatsu's audition for DanganronpaWhen Tsumugi and Monokuma reveal everything about the participants, including talent, personality, memory, and feelings were all fabricated, Shuichi seemingly falls into despair as his thoughts were mainly on Kaede and his friendship with her along with all his others during his time at Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles. Kaede's audition video was also finally shown, revealing that the real her was very different from her Killing Game counterpart, an introverted young woman who had no faith in humanity and as a result, "perfect for the Killing Game".
In the end, Kaede could achieve her goal of defeating the mastermind as her death was avenged after Danganronpa finally came to its end in the last execution.

Creation and Development 

Kaede (楓) is written and means "maple tree". Her last name Akamatsu (赤松), is the Japanese name for a kind of tree known as the "Japanese red pine".

Alternate 
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Kaede was doing her self-introduction before she fell into a deep sleep and awake in a strange classroom. She encountered Makoto Naegi who claimed that he was a new student at Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles and recognized Kaede's name and talent from the new student's roster. Kaede then read a note that told her to come to the gym.

Kaede encountered the other students along her way to the gym, introduced herself and learn a bit more about the others. Kaede finally reached the gym and was so shocked when she saw Monokuma appeared, thinking that he's a panda. Furthermore, Monokuma told her that Kaede and the other students will undergo the Killing School Semester inside the academy, where none will escape except they perform a perfect murder. Kaede was baffled by this overwhelming and despairing rules. Monokuma also informed that she will share the same room with Makoto and Hajime Hinata, which she objects because she's a girl.

Kaede then enters her room, only found signs of struggle all around the wall, bed, and floors. When she entered the shower, she discovered Yasuhiro Hagakure's body lying on the floor with a knife stabbed in his abdomen. Kaede screamed in panic when Monokuma broadcasted the dead body announcement and told the students to immediately perform an investigation before the Class Trial. While investigating, Kaede is advised by Hajime not to trust anyone since one of them is the murderer.

Kaede begins to investigate her room and Yasuhiro's body and then asking the students around the school. She also checked the knife's origin that is the kitchen. After she gathered enough evidence, Kaede and the others descend to the Class Trial room.


Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Kaede Akamatsu
Kaede has shoulder-length blonde hair and a prominent ahoge. She wears silver music note hairpins and has warm purple eyes.

She wears her high school uniform, which consists of a long-sleeved white shirt completed with a pink ribbed-hem sweater vest adorned with her previous schools insignia and an orange tie. She wears a dark, warm purple skirt patterened with black music staves and lining each of them. The song on her skirt creates an actual melody, but it doesn't seem to be any relevant tune. Dark purple knee socks are adorned with her previous schools insignia on the top of them, and beige shoes with dark brown laces and soles.

Kaede also carries around a white backpack, that has a gold clasp.

In the Prologue, Kaede wears a dark blue sailor uniform with a short matching blue skirt, a red tie, black knee socks and black penny loafers. The pins in her hair are regular, silver straight ones.


Kaede is an optimistic hard worker. According to Kaede's Japanese voice actress, Sayaka Kanda, she is very protagonist-like and always pulling the others along cheerfully; a typical heroine that is very dependable.As a leader type with a firm character, she has a strong will and doesn't hesitate to take action, her notable character trait being her strong sense of belief in herself and others. Her main motivation for playing the piano is to see others smiling.

Kaede has a kind personality that makes her think about others before herself. Because of this, she is unable to immediately suspect people, as demonstrated in the demo by her going as far as faking an alibi out of her trust for Makoto Naegi, with no rational basis for his innocence. She is willing to lie for good reasons, but appears uncomfortable while doing so and is quite bad at lying. Like the other protagonists before her, she has a very sensitive nature and listens to other people's troubles. However, as seen during her Free Time Events with other students, she seems to encourage other people to get better even more actively than some other protagonists do, and she isn't afraid to be bold about it and point out their flaws. As seen during the Free Time Events and her overall role as the leader, and even during her interactions with Izuru Kamukura in the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, it appears that she is rather quickly well-liked by the other students. She is also stated to not be very idiosyncratic despite being an Ultimate, giving off the impression of being a simple girl you could meet anywhere and a person that's easy to befriend.However, being a pianoholic from a young age, she has a peculiar trait of including music talk into her conversations.While brave and determined, she is shown to be more fearful around certain situations, such as disliking horror movies because they make her scared in the bonus mode. It's also been shown that she even strongly avoids certain activities such as cooking and certain sports because she fears her fingers might get hurt, affecting her ability to play.

Kaede can also be a bit oblivious and silly at times. During K1-B0's Free Time Events, she unintentionally asks questions in a somewhat insensitive manner by making assumptions about his robotic nature. She also pokes Tsumugi Shirogane's cheek and K1-B0's emergency button without permission, showing that she is quite childish and impulsive. Furthermore, she has a habit of making rather sexual comments towards other girls, such as repeatedly calling Tenko cute, describing Tsumugi's sexy aura and her body, threatening to lift up Tsumugi's skirt and let everyone see her panties in order to make her to talk, and getting "super jealous" and very excited about sleeping in girl's lap during one of the anthology storiesーShuichi even points out to her that she sounds like a creepy old man. However, ironically, she seems completely oblivious when other girls talk about liking girls. During Tenko Chabashira and Himiko Yumeno's Free Time Events, she completely fails to understand that they refer to homosexuality when talking about "playing for the other team" and being attracted to another girl. She is also quite sensitive to vulgarity, as shown in Miu Iruma's Free Time Events.

While a kind and friendly person, Kaede is shown to have a quite firm, sometimes even rather easily angered personality as well, as she tends to lash at others when they annoy her enough. When Shuichi panics after they first met, she yelled at him to shut up in order to calm him down but also appeared quite annoyed by his nervousness, and later slapped Shuichi upside his head when he wasn't responsive for a short amount of time. She tries to be patient with Miu, but occasionally snaps back at her whenever she gets fed up with her insults, once even angrily telling Miu she has "nasty cow udders" after Miu repeatedly called Kaede's breasts tiny. During the investigation, she tells Himiko to be quiet and shut up multiple times, having no patience for her nonsensical and unnecessary talk about magic during such serious situation. She is also rather firm with Kokichi, bluntly telling him when she dislikes his behavior and what she thinks about him, such as believing he just wants attention and or is delusional, to which Kokichi responds by stating that Kaede really seems to know how to stand her ground. At one point, she scares off Monokid by yelling at him to shut up.

From Team Danganronpa's point of view, Kaede is the perfect protagonist who would act according to their plan by encouraging others to push forward no matter what, allowing the show to continue. This is contrasted by Shuichi, who is forced to become the protagonist after her death and lacks her strength, confidence, and charisma. However, he is smarter and more negative than her, leading him to refuse both hope and despair and abandoned the Killing Game, which turns out to be the correct way to end it.

Indeed, Kaede's tendency to push forward with her own personal justice is her biggest flaw. She refuses to give up when it would be the sensible thing to do and when pushing forward would only make things worse. She also never doubts what she thinks is right and accepts it blindly. At one point she even convinces the group to try escape via Monokuma's obvious trap and gets called out by Kokichi because of it. This pushy and bossy attitude causes her to become a bit unpopular among some students, though she does appear to feel very bad for it and genuinely just didn't seem to realize how her actions had affected the others at the time. She is also willing to lie during the Class Trials, though only to strengthen the group's unity as Kokichi puts it and she feels uncomfortable doing so. When pushed to her limits, Kaede would go as far as attempting to murder the mastermind in order to save her friends from the mass execution in Chapter 1. According to Kanda, her Japanese voice actress, she will get a little scary when she goes too far. She always has good intentions and is motivated by her dreams and wish to befriend the other students and get them out of the school. However, Kanda has pointed out that she is unsure whether or not to call Kaede a good person, stating that she doesn't have ulterior motives because she doesn't think she's wrong, and she ends up going a bit crazy when her sense of what is right turns out to be mistaken. According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Kaede's madness is less her fault and more that of the environment, and she is notable as a character who genuinely wants to get everyone out with such extent. 

Later, it is revealed that Kaede's memories had been altered to make her act like a person with a completely opposite personality. In reality, Kaede was a person who hated people, having difficulties with trusting others and openly stating with a disturbingly bright smile that she had no faith in humanity. Though, it should be noted that it is left unclear whether or not this is true and it could have been a lie made by Tsumugi, as pointed out by Shuichi.

Talent and 
Ultimate 
Kaede's talent as the Ultimate Pianist is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Kaede is a talented pianist in the past.

Being the Ultimate Pianist, she is very skilled in playing the piano since her young age. She gained the title after winning a contest. Her biggest motivation to play the piano is to make her audience smile, and always remember her motivation during her piano concert so she can hold her nervousness.

During the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, she can tell that Izuru Kamukura's performance is otherwise perfect, but it has a big flaw of lacking any feeling behind it.

In other 
Kaede's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Pianist
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「ピアニスト」	Super High School Level Pianist
Français Pianiste Ultime	Ultimate Pianist
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的鋼琴家	Super High School Level Pianist
中文 超高中级的钢琴家	Super High School Level Pianist
Enhanced 
Kaede has enhanced hearing, similar to Ibuki Mioda from the Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair that allows her to hear more than three different people's argument during the Panic Debate.


Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles's Students:
Shuichi Saihara 
Shuichi seems to strongly believe in Kaede, reassuring her and telling her that "if it's her, she can do it". Shuichi's presence appears to comfort Kaede, due to his status as a detective, although she admits that he seems unreliable. She attempts to help raise Shuichi's confidence by giving him pep talks.

At first, Shuichi admitted to not completely trusting Kaede when murders occur, which disappoints her, although she does accept this since she believes he can solve the case. However, this changed drastically after they began investigating the school together, as he came to admire her for her determination and put much trust in her. He offered to help Kaede numerous times in Chapter 1, even bowing to Miu at one point, merely because he saw Kaede doing so. They also shared a rather intimate moment in a classroom, in which Kaede held Shuichi's hand. She is fully aware that his fear of uncovering the truth prevented him from using his talent as the Ultimate Detective properly, so she encouraged him to hold his head high and promised her to face the truth no matter how painful the result would be.

Kaede has been shown to care deeply for Shuichi, as shown in the first Class Trial when she attempted to steer suspicion away from him after the other students begin to accuse him. This ultimately resulted in Kaede being voted as the culprit, something which devastated Shuichi.

The two shared a tearful and emotional moment, and Kaede was driven to tears while Shuichi angrily asked her why she had murdered Rantaro, although he stopped immediately when he was reminded that Kaede would be executed. When Kaede apologized to their fellow students, her apology seemed to be mainly at Shuichi. It seems that Shuichi forgave Kaede and tried to rescue her in the beginning of her execution. In the beginning of the execution, Shuichi was shown trying to reach Kaede's hand but his attempt failed and she is now remained dead.

During the Love Suite fantasy event, Shuichi had the role of Kaede's boyfriend and they celebrated their first anniversary. Kaede seemed upset because he didn't call her "sweetheart", but by her name, instead. In the original Japanese, Shuichi was asked to call her with her first name instead of the way he usually refers her as "Akamatsu-san." However, after Shuichi tried to call her 'sweetheart' for the first time, they both find it hard to regain their composure and especially Kaede is shocked. Slightly worried, Shuichi asked her if she is okay and called her Kaede again by habit, causing her to point out in slight annoyance that he went back to calling her that. Shuichi apologized shyly, but Kaede answers it's fine and a bit shyly admitted that she really likes his passive side. Shuichi blushed at this and became quiet, causing Kaede to tell him not do that and point out that she got very embarrassed too. Out of blue, Kaede hugged Shuichi and they fell down on the bed. Shuichi began to panic, but Kaede asked him to hug her even tighter. Kaede admits that Shuichi's heartbeat is her favorite tune and that if Shuichi encourages her, she can do anything. Finally, Kaede asks if Shuichi will "do it with her" and he pulls her closer to him without saying a word. It's heavily implied that Kaede and Shuichi had sex afterward.

Rantaro 
Rantaro admires Kaede for her leadership skills. Kaede thinks that he is a refreshing person and easy to talk to. However, Kaede was surprised how Rantaro acts so care-free and relaxed before the Class Trial in the demo starts. She states that even though things have become more complicated, Rantaro has found the way to clear the whole situation, which made her curious. She was also confused how Rantaro speaks so calmly against Monokuma during the situation and was desperate to find out what Rantaro's true talent is.

During their Free Time Events, Kaede states that she wants to be friends with Rantaro no matter who he was in the past. Despite him having his talent as unknown and him being suspicious, Kaede still cares for Rantaro and respects him and believes that he is not the mastermind behind the whole Killing Game. Kaede lights his mind up with hope and made him not fall into despair. Rantaro seems to also care for Kaede, as he feels worried and commented on how she is trying to help everyone and said she should take it easy. He thinks Kaede is easy to talk to and feels at ease whenever he is next to her. He calls both of them comrades amongst all of the Ultimates since they're a bit more ordinary than some others.

Kaede tends to assume that Rantaro is a womanizer and attempting to hit on her, even though he always insists he is not that kind of person. Whenever she was invited by him to drink tea together, Kaede was curious and kept assuming if it was a dating simulator where Rantaro could hit on girls. However, Rantaro admitted that his looks may resemble a playboy, but he is a chill, friendly guy.

Later on, in Chapter 1, it was shown that these two seem to be likely on great terms with each other and get along. It was shown that Rantaro was painting Kaede's nails and suggest the nail design that Kaede needs since her nails were short. Rantaro is extremely patient with Kaede and they both have faith in each other with trust. Kaede inspired Rantaro with words that filled his heart with determination and wants to stop the Killing Game.

Later, Rantaro suggests that he should go to the library to find the secret door leading to the mastermind's secret place, but was killed by the mastermind. Without knowing, Kaede got involved at the wrong time and distracted Rantaro from the mastermind's attack. When Kaede first discovered Rantaro's corpse, her legs began to tremble and she was frightened to see Rantaro was dead. She demanded to figure out who would kill Rantaro and states how she will never forgive the person who would kill an important comrade. In the trial, Kaede believed that she was the culprit who murdered Rantaro and confesses her sins. She calls herself a horrible murderer and is sorry for him and Shuichi directly the most and regrets "killing" Rantaro after the trial ends and was later executed.

In the non-canon Danganronpa V3 bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Kaede was waiting for Rantaro after the Christmas party almost ended. She was aware that Rantaro would come back soon. Kaede states how she left some cake for Rantaro. In the end, they ate the leftover cake together.In a different event, Kaede stops by Rantaro's soccer game to cheer for him. He was surprised, but also very pleased by this, stating he'd do his best at the game and asking Kaede to cheer loudly for him and his team.

Kaito 
At first, Kaede is angered when Kaito informs her that he had broken the law in order to become an astronaut. However, he is later shown to be one of the few who always supports her during the Killing School Semester, as they have a similar optimistic way of thinking.

On occasion Kaede gave rousing speeches of optimism during times of distress when the class had first met and Kaito always responded agreeably stating he would have said the same, requesting Kaede and him hug which she graciously refused showing despite their relationship lacking affection, they both share the same mindset. Kaede is shown to appreciate his support, though she mostly seems to thank him only in her thoughts.

Kaito is highly supportive of Kaede, and compliments her on her tenacity to round up everyone and have them work together, enough to say she'd make a good astronaut in his Free Time Events. He does, however, comment on how quick she is to act on her own, to which he offers her to be his sidekick. She graciously refuses but is uplifted by Kaito's supportive attitude.

Kaito is quick to defend Kaede's actions during Chapter 1. When Kokichi tries to persuade the other students that Kaede was forcing them into despair, Kaito becomes angered and assures Kaede that she was not at fault. After Kaede is revealed to be the culprit behind Rantaro's murder, Kaito cries and along with Gonta and Tenko, even threatens to fight for her life at first, although Kaede quickly puts a stop to this herself.

Maki 
After Kaede and Maki introduced themselves as Ultimates, Kaede claims that the children could see Maki's true soul and that Maki is capable of deep love.

Despite Kaede's kindness towards Maki, the latter has been shown to distrust her, openly showcasing dislike for her. She even blames Kaede for destroying the unity that she had tried to create between the students.

However, Maki seems to have a somewhat better relationship with Kaede in the Ultimate Talent Development Plan, to such a point where Kaito wonders how since they were so close. Despite she calls her relationship with Kaede an "arrangement" she is usually seen with her, a clear sign that her friendship is almost to Shuichi and Kaito’s, promising that she will find a way to make Kaede plays the piano to the children of her orphanage. At the same time, Maki still tends to be cold towards her - an example is when she offers herself to accompany Chihiro Fujisaki to Gundham Tanaka to ask for a proper burial for a deceased bird found by the latter who, surprised by the kind deed, is brief by Kaede who says that behind the caregiver's edgy surface there is a really sincere person, which Maki replies with a cold but embarrassed way, scolding Kaede that she has no need to come with them, much to the pianist’s dismay.

K1-B0
Although initially defensive about his robot nature, K1-B0 tells Kaede that he is glad to be her friend after discovering that she is not a robophobic.

In her Free Time Events with him, Kaede seems to be interested in K1-B0 since it's her first time interacting with a real robot. Kaede is also curious about K1-B0's features and interrogates him. K1-B0 was not aware of Kaede joking around since he finds human jokes very annoying. He states how Kaede is the first person who had to ask many questions without hesitating towards him.

During his last Free Time Event with Kaede, she presses his emergency button, rendering him unconscious for a moment. After K1-B0 is back to normal, she suggests that maybe the emergency button shouldn't be in such obvious place and he should talk to the professor about it. K1-B0 then goes on a tangent about Kaede technically becoming his mother if she influences his design, just like the professor is his father, and says that he should call her his mom from now on. Kaede feels uncomfortable by this, but K1-B0 then shows a more advanced though still a little awkward sense of humor by slightly smirking and revealing that he was just joking as a payback for messing with his body. K1-B0 then turns a little nervous as he politely asks Kaede to keep his emergency button a secret from others, and she of course agrees.

Miu 
Kaede and Miu's relationship can be a bit negative at times, as Miu has a tendency to insult her just like she insults everyone else, and specifically calls her "Kaeidiot" (Bakamatsu in Japanese) and keeps calling her breasts tiny. However, while Kaede can be a bit annoyed by Miu's rudeness, she feels sympathetic and protective of her whenever she shows her weaker side.

In Chapter 1, when Kaede begs on her knees for Miu's help, Miu appears uncomfortable despite her usual arrogant behavior. When she agrees, the former grabs her hands in joy and causes Miu to sweat.

In Miu's second Free Time Event with Kaede, Kaede appears worried about Miu, because it seems like she has never had any friends, and wishes to help her to become better at communicating. However, even Kaede is tired after talking with Miu in an attempt to help her.

Miu is also noticeably distraught after Kaede is found guilty.

Miu appears to feel some attraction towards Kaede. During their first Free Time Event together, Kaede has finally had enough of Miu's rude behavior and she tells Miu that her breasts are actually pretty big. Miu then wants to rub her to make sure, saying there's no problem because they're both girls, but Kaede is uncomfortable and smacks her a little in order to defend herself. If Kaede gives her a gift she really likes, Miu blushes shyly and wonders if Kaede is really into her, possibly explaining how she knew what to give Miu. Miu then returns to her arrogant mood and laughs that of course a "flat-chested idiot" like Kaede would fall for a brainy, busty beauty like her.

Later, in Chapter 3, Miu also tries to see if the wax figure of Kaede that Angie made is wearing any underwear.

Kokichi 
Kokichi quickly notices flaws in Kaede's judgment and optimistic way of thinking, as she is willing to push others forward even if it would be the best to give up. He also has a tendency to act saddened and complain how mean the others are towards "the poor girl", making the other students point out that he is always the first one to suspect her. Kaede thinks Kokichi is just like a mischievous child messing around and believes he is constantly lying and just wants attention. She is rather firm with him, openly stating her annoyance with him out loud, to which Kokichi once responded with a relaxed, seemingly genuine smile and appeared slightly impressed as he stated that Kaede really seems to know how to stand her ground.

During the beginning of his second Free Time Event with Kaede, he runs around screaming that Kaede is about to murder him, but he's just pretending and having fun. He also tries to trick Kaede by claiming that K1-B0 is behind her with a knife. Later during the Event, after noticing how Kaede has fallen for many of his lies so far, he warns her that she'll be the first one to die if she continues to be such an easy mark. He tries to ask her to join his organization and be a cover agent pianist, but she believes all of it is just Kokichi's delusions. He then explains to her that the definition of common sense varies depending on person and asks her why she thinks her definition is the right one. He then tells her that he is only warning her because he actually cares about her, but also tells her not to come crying back to him if things don't go her way. Considering his words nonsense, Kaede does not appear to truly listen to him.

In general, Kaede appears to be one of the students Kokichi is a bit more interested in, as he appears to have fun while talking with her and he sometimes seems to turn more serious and enigmatic while they're talking alone, which seems to indicate that he has some form of respect for her. At one point, he mischievously teases her by asking how far she's gone with Shuichi, and then claims that he simply meant to ask how far they have searched the area. He then explains that they're strangers, so he really doesn't care what she and Shuichi do, and then points out that even friends don't share everything with each other. Kokichi explains that he is more nervous around friends who share too much than strangers, which confuses Kaede and turns her silent with a slightly worried expression. Later, when Kaede rushes to stop the fighting in the cafeteria, she can stop to talk to Kokichi and ask him why he isn't there to stop it if he knows about it. He reminds her that the time limit is very near and asks her that who is she to stop people who feel the need to take action to survive. However, he then grins and says that by the same reasoning, who is he to stop her and then encourages her to go stop them and says he believes in her.

Right before Kaede's execution, Kokichi has a blank expression (which often seems to indicate honesty in him), as he blankly states "bye" and then mentions that Kaede isn't a boring person. Coming from him, this appears to be quite a notable compliment, and it is worth noting that Kokichi had said the same phrase only to Shuichi and Kaito.

In the official art book, it is stated that even Kaede, who always wants to believe in everyone, doubts Kokichi's stories a lot and doesn't have patience with him.However, she still considers him a friend along with everyone else and tells him seriously that they should cooperate in the relationship chart.

Angie 
Kaede sees Angie as a very religious person and is a bit creeped out when Angie asks for some blood to sacrifice to her god. Whether good girl or bad, Kaede thinks that it won't be easy to get close to her.

After Kaede was executed, Angie seemed to forgive her deed and said that she would rest in heaven, but Miu replied that Kaede had a horrible way to go.

Tsumugi 
Initially thought to be a life-sized doll, Kaede didn't expect that Tsumugi has the title of the Ultimate Cosplayer due to her normal-looking appearance. She states that she could feel some sort of "pheromones" that can't stop from falling of Tsumugi because she was out of costume. She also said that Tsumugi has a "strange, almost sexy aura" about her, possibly because she had people ogling her curves on a daily basis, or so Kaede says. It is unclear whether Kaede was just being playful or actually hitting on Tsumugi, but it should be noted that Shuichi even told Kaede that she sounded like a creepy old man after Kaede made those comments about her.

In the bonus scene (triggered only if the player gave Tsumugi Nail Brush present in Chapter 1), Tsumugi offered Kaede to paint her nails which resulted in Rantaro interrupting Kaede's appointment with her. It is later revealed that Tsumugi actually holds no friendship towards Kaede. In Chapter 1, Tsumugi had figured out Kaede's plan and when she discovered that Kaede's plan failed, Tsumugi decided to kill Rantaro herself to prevent everyone else from being executed. Because of this, Tsumugi framed Kaede for the action and executed her as well.

Korekiyo 
During his Free Time Events, Korekiyo told Kaede about his sister, to the point that she more or less jokingly asked him if he is into incest. He seemed to get slightly angered by this and simply answered that incest is regrettable. Kaede apologized and told him she didn't mean it in a bad way, which quickly calmed him down.

Korekiyo likes Kaede and her optimistic nature very much and asks her to be his sister's friend. She agrees, and Korekiyo leaves to plan a good "method" for them to meet, heavily implying that Korekiyo might have murdered her in the future if she hadn't died so early during the Killing Game.

Kaede thinks Korekiyo is a bit creepy but assumes he is a nice person who cares about his sister. However, she is a bit unsure about it, as she doesn't know him well. She also assumes that Korekiyo is "so girly" because of his sister's influence.

Kirumi 
Kaede thinks that Kirumi has an interesting talent who is skillful and also gives off a humble and calm atmosphere. She wondered to call her just that. Kaede states how lucky Kirumi could be since she is always busy and helps a lot of people.

During her Free Time Events with Kirumi, Kaede straightforwardly told her to stop spoiling the other students too much, as they can grow to become too dependent on her. She said that it was her best and worst quality, and by using Kirumi's aggravation toward being called as the group's mom, her words eventually get through to her as she realized that to pursue her principle of selfless devotion, she needs to start thinking about her own needs.

Tenko 
Kaede thinks Tenko is cute, spending a good deal of time complimenting her appearance during Free Times Events, which greatly embarrasses Tenko. Since Kaede is a girl, Tenko is willing to protect her from degenerate males.

Free 

Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Kaede Akamatsu, Hotel Kumasutra#Kaede Akamatsu
Kaede Pixel Head Icon
Kaede Akamatsu
Loves:	045. High-End Headphones, 055. Tattered Music Score, 063. Metronome, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	002. Boba Tea, 004. Cleopatra's Pearl Cocktail, 012. Greek Yogurt, 019. Crystal Bangle, 020. Striped Necktie, 028. Nail Brush, 030. Beret, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 032. Cufflinks, 037. Travel Journal, 044. Tennis Ball Set, 046. Teddy Bear, 049. Hand Mirror, 061. Hand Grips, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 077. Clock-Shaped Gaming Console, 078. Everywhere Parasol, 081. Jelly Balls, 082. Upbeat Humidifier, 091. Space Egg, 094. Helping Yacchi, 095. Home Planet, 097. Sparkly Sheet, 101. Marigold Seeds, 105. Bear Ears
Quotes 
DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"I guess I should start by introducing myself. My name is Kaede Akamatsu. My last name roughly means, "passionate red maple tree." It doesn't really fit me, but... I still like my last name."
"This guy looks like a creep... and it turns out, he is one, too."
"They say kids are very intuitive. If they like you that much... then they can probably tell how loving you really are, Maki!"
"Ooohh! I always imagined Aikido masters to be huge, burly guys, but you're so cute!"
"What a weird guy... He's like a mischevious little kid... This is no time to be joking around. Unless... he really is an evil supreme leader?"
"You have this strange, almost pheromonal scent about you. I bet anyone who looks at your body can tell that your pheromones are off the charts!"
"To be honest, I feel confused, scared, and disgusted by all this. But we have to do this. I don't want everyone else to die..."
"It's starting soon... The debate to decide the culprit... If I notice anything, I need to point it out. Not just for my life... but for everyone else's lives, too!"
"That's right! We need to work together so we can overcome this class trial!"
"I don't need to confess just because it's a pain for you!"
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"Nothing. No light. No sound. No form. No voice. No knowledge of who I am. ...Who am I? Who am I? I extend a hand. A hand that belongs to no one. To take hold of my existence-- This is me. My name is Kaede Akamatsu. I just remembered who I am. Nice to meet...me. I'm the protagonist of this crazy story." (Opening Monologue)
"Shut up! You're not the only one who's confused right now!"
"...That's right. I was kidnapped, too! I was walking my usual route to school when all of a sudden, someone shoved me into a car. I shouted for help, but no one came to rescue me...Everyone pretended like nothing happened...It made me think how rotten the world is...And then, I lost consciousness...And when I woke up, I was inside that locker..."
"My family is not rich and I'm no one special. I'm just a normal high school girl."
"I have a skill I devote myself to...but I wouldn't call it an Ultimate talent..."
"Not many people can "just happen" to solve a case. You should be more proud of that."
"Oh, yeah... My name is Kaede Akamatsu. I'm the Ultimate Pianist. Nice to meet you!"
"Ever since I was a child, I would play piano whenever I got bored... There were even times I played the piano so much, that I forgot to eat and sleep. Eventually, I won trophies from concerts. And people started praising me..."
"We're confused. We just need to relax, is all. Oh! Let's imagine Maurice Ravel's "Sonatine"..."
"I mean, it sorta makes sense. You have this strange, almost sexy aura about you."
"Our present situation is our main concern. Once it's over, we'll be good and dandy."
"Worrying won't get you anywhere, you know. It's better to just be carefree."
"But they say kids are very intuitive. If they like you that much... ...then they can probably tell how loving you really are, Maki!"
"I mean, who cares about some stuffed animals!? Escaping this place is way more important!"
"If they won't end this, then we will! I know we can do it if we work together!"
"As long as we work together as friends, I just know nothing bad will happen!"
"Just because I'm scared doesn't mean I'm gonna run away! I gotta move forward!"
"We may not be able to escape now, but we'll do it eventually, somehow... Everyone just has to cooperative if we all wanna get out of here!"
"Whatever you have planned, I'm not gonna let you get away with it!"
Chapter 1:

"No need to worry! It looks a bit dangerous, but we're all Ultimates here!"
"Yeah, but we can't just give up...Right, you guys? I mean, we've only failed once, y'know. We can't give up this early, right?"
"So let's all work hard to escape this place together! And once we get out of here and make it to the outside world...Why don't we all stay friends?"
"Do you really think I'd kill someone just to get out? In your dreams! We're not gonna lose to you! We promised each other we'd escape from this place!"
"We shouldn't be fighting amongst ourselves. Right now, we *need* to work together."
"Honestly...I'd probably be more inspiring if I played a song than gave a speech... Chopin's "Military Polonaise" would definitely help unite us!"
"Whoever trapped us here wants us to fight each other... ...So let's show 'em that we're not gonna let that happen! We're *not* gonna fight each other! We're gonna work together! Okay!"
"As long as we work together, everything will work out just fine!"
"It may take one more try or a lot more tries, but it's not impossible. Forget about Monokuma. It doesn't matter what he says to us. I don't wanna lose to him! And I don't want any of you to lose, either! I refuse to lose to someone who would do these terrible things to us!"
"So let's all work hard to escape this place together!"
"Why don't we all stay friends?"
"Yeah... After going through an experience like this, I think we'd all be the best of friends."
"We're not gonna lose to you! We promised each other we'd escape from this place!"
"I've always believed that my wishes can become true if I just work hard enough!"
"But whoever the mastermind is, we'll expose them and help everyone else escape! And when this is all behind us, we're gonna stay good friends! That's a promise, okay!?"
"But I won't lose... I won't give up. Because I want to see everyone's smiles just a little longer... I want to spend time with them, laughing and talking like normal teenagers. So...I won't give up."
"I don't have time to worry about things I don't understand... I just need to do what I can. Or else...I won't be able to protect everyone."
"With you by my side, I feel like I can stand up to anything. You gave me the courage I need to take on the mastermind. So, please...be more confident. I believe in you, so you should definitely believe in yourself!"
"I love seeing the expressions people make when they're enjoying themselves. That's why I play piano... To see the smiles on everyone's faces. And that's why we need to expose the mastermind and end this dumb killing game! So we can smile with everyone else!"
"I can't change what has already happened. All I can do is what must be done. I have to do it. I won't give up."
"So much has happened in such a short time, and I haven't been able to keep up with everything... But I know that I need to fight back against this Class Trial to protect everyone!"
"We just have to do our best. Not just for Rantaro's sake...but also so we can avenge him... And...so we can protect everyone else. We have to defeat the mastermind who's orchestrating this whole thing."
"Shuichi is right. We can't give up until it's over. I can't stay depressed forever. I have to help everyone get out of here."
"If you dismiss a possibility and look the other way without confirming anything... ...then you're just turning your back on the truth."
"It'll be fine... Let's all work together. Remember our promise? We're gonna escape this place and remain good friends afterward... So let's do it! I'm sure we'll be alright! Because...we make such an incredible team."
"I think everyone is afraid of learning the truth. But the people who are willing to find the truth are the ones who can decide their fate. If you never know the lies from the truth, then you can't choose a path. You won't even know you're on a path. So...fight for the truth... Even if it is frightening. I know you can do this. If you're scared, borrow the strength of others who will be there to help you. Think of everyone you're helping, and let that be your strength."
"Before a piano concert, I was always so nervous that I thought I would vomit... ...But then I would remember all the people I've amde smile with my performances."
"Alright, let's go! It's better to end bad stuff like this as soon as possible!"
"We gotta work together to find the mastermind! Then we can end this killing game!"
"I'll defeat the mastermind and end this dumb killing game! I'll...I'll even use this Class Trial to do that!"
"I need to do my best to guide everyone to the right answer!"
"D-Don't worry, you guys! We're one step closer to the truth, so don't give up!"
"To protect everyone, I need to take control of this debate. Even if that means I have to lie to do it."
"I have to retake control! I have to tell a lie...so we can get closer to the truth!"
"If we vote for him, all hope is lost... I won't be able to save everyone... But I haven't lost hope yet! I won't give up! Before I can save everyone...I need to make sure we're all on the same page!"
"Answer me this—what kind of truth did you realize? Don't be scared to say it. Not just for me...but for everyone else. Please...face the truth."
"It may be the end of me, but I want my wish to... I'm giving it to you, Shuichi. From now on, you're going to carry on my wish! You're going to protect everyone!"
"My hands are only strong enough to play piano!"
"Hey, Shuichi... Don't lose sigh of the truth."
"I couldn't let that chance pass me by. I had to save everyone, no matter what."
"I thought I should lie to you all, so it would motivate you to keep moving forward."
"Even after I'm gone...my wish will still be here. So I'm counting on you all! I'm entrusting my wish to every one of you!"
"I believe in you! I believe that you all will make it through this, somehow!"
"You guys better live! Don't go dying on me now! End this ridiculous killing game, survive, and get the hell out of this place! And then...be friends after you escape, okay? I think you'll all be the best of friends."
"Shuichi, you better not lose. You can't lose to this killing game! I know you can beat it! I believe in you guys! So please, believe in yourself! ...Okay? It's a promise."
"Yup, that's our promise. I'm leaving everything up to you, Shuichi. ...Goodbye."
Chapter 6 (Fake Memory):

"Okay, break it up! We gotta be friends here, so don't start fighting with each other!"
"That's right. We're friends from here on out. It might be hard, but let's try to take it one step at a time. We might fight at first, but we shouldn't forget about believing in each other. We all went through such a difficult time, so I think we can all become good friends!"
"Then, let's do it. It'll probably be a couple of years before we all see each other again... But let's all work together and do our best..."
As Pre-Killing Game Kaede:

"I'm perfect for a killing game. I don't have any faith in humanity."
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Kaede is known as a 'false protagonist' or a 'decoy protagonist', which are terms used in media to describe a character who is depicted as a protagonist only to be killed immediately, or somewhere early on in the story.
Kaede was first revealed as part of the Danganronpa V3 trailer first shown at Tokyo Game Show 2016, along with the avatars of the rest of the game's cast which up until that point were only shown as silhouettes. While all other characters were only revealed by appearance, Kaede's character name, as well as her Japanese voice actress, Sayaka Kanda, were revealed during the trailer, and it is actually presented by herself.
She is the first protagonist in the primary game that has a skill for a talent, along with being the first female protagonist in the primary line of the Danganronpa series.
During the trailer, Kaede introduces herself as the game's "protagonist" (主人公 shujinkō), and is shown participating in a Class Trial.
According to the English localization's character heights, Kaede (5'8") is taller than Shuichi (5'7"), which is why some players assumed that a one scene with the two had incorrect art. However, in the Japanese version, Kaede is shorter than Shuichi.
Kaede's Japanese voice actress, Sayaka Kanda, has already contributed to Danganronpa franchise as a whole both as a singer (as part of the group TRUSTRICK), singing the opening to Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School - Future Arc alongside Maon Kurosaki as well as its ending, and as a stage actress - playing Junko Enoshima (and Mukuro Ikusaba) in the Danganronpa stage plays.
Kanda is also married to Mondo Owada's stage actor for Danganronpa: Kibō no Gakuen to Zetsubō no Kōkōsei THE STAGE 2016, Mitsu Murata.
Kaede's English voice actress, Erika Harlacher, also voices Kyoko Kirigiri in Danganronpa games.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Kaede the 3rd most popular Danganronpa V3 student out of 16.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Kaede was voted the 4th most popular student in the electronic poll, and most popular through post cards.

Monodam (モノダム Monodamu) is one of the antagonists featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

He is part of a group called the Monokuma Kubs along with his siblings Monotaro, Monosuke, Monokid, and Monophanie that control Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles alongside Monokuma. While all the siblings are robots, he is the most robotic in appearance. He is the quietest member of the group.

Contents[hide]
History
Creation
Prior to the Killing School Semester
Killing School Semester
Monodam's Rebellion
Monokubs' Return
Creation and Development
Name
Alternate Fates
Appearance
Personality
Abilities
Controlling the Exisals
Fixing and rebuilding
Relationships
Monokuma
Monokuma Kubs
Monokid
Monosuke
Monotaro
Monophanie
Quotes
List of Appearances
Trivia
References
Navigation


Monokubs IntroductionMonodam, along with his four other siblings were created by Team Danganronpa, a group of people who created the famous reality show called Danganronpa, a series which tells the story about Killing Games. Monodam and the Monokubs' roles are to aid Monokuma in hosting the Killing Game.
It is unknown when they were created and in which Killing Game they started to appear. Their notable appearance is the last Killing Game entry, the 53rd one (known as the Killing Game Semester.

Prior to the Killing School Semester 
Exisals ambushing the students
After the students woke up and left the classroom, the Monokubs began to drag every student to the gymnasium. After every student entered the gym, the Monokubs entered the gymnasium with their Exisals and they appeared before all the students by jumping from their Exisals, showing their robotical body that has a shape similar to bear. Although this seems strange to the students and raises many questions, Monodam and the others concentrate on incoherent things until at last they realize that the students did not possess the appropriate clothes to be "Definitive Students", for which they give them new clothes. Realizing that Monophanie did not fulfill her task, the Monokubs are forced to stop the beginning of the mutual killing game and wait another time, restarting everything and returning some memories to all the students.

It was revealed that this event happened right before the 53rd Killing Game occurred when the students' memories were about to be fabricated by Team Danganronpa.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Monodam and his siblings control the mutual killing game of Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles with his father Monokuma. They are the controller of the Exisals, a robotic beast they use as their personal robots to punish students who defy the school's rules. Monodam is the quietest member of Monokubs, because he was bullied a lot by Monokid that he closed his heart from everyone, including his siblings.

Afterwards, the Monokubs retreat and reappear when Monokuma made his debut, explaining the rules of their new lives in the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles Killing Game (However, he didn't actually talk).

Monotaro along with his siblings were shown in the monitors of the Academy to announce the day time and nighttime and other events about the killing game.

When Kaito Momota was about to attack Monokuma, the Monokubs appeared to punish him, that was until they accidentally squished Monokuma with the Exisals, which resulting in his explosion. Monodam was shocked but still was quiet, later followed by his siblings, thinking he is truly gone. The Monokubs then gone to commemorate their father's demise.

Monodam was the only Monokub to appear in the monitors due to the others preparing a funeral.

Later Monokuma reappeared the next day and made the Monokubs happy to see that their father is still alive.

Monodam appeared once again along with the other Monokubs when Rantaro Amami was found dead. He and the other Monokubs grabbed the cameras found at the crime scene to print the photos that were taken during the incident.

Later Monodam and the other Monokubs announced to the students to head to the basement. After Kaede and Shuichi arrived the Monokubs showed up and gave to the students the printed pictures found at the crime scene.

Monodam and the others appear again during the first Class Trial, in which when Kaede Akamatsu is voted as the culprit, some of her friends try to stop her from being executed, but nevertheless, the Monokubs threaten them with their Exisals so that they couldn't intervene with Kaede's execution.

Monodam's 
Post the first Class Trial, Monodam who got tired with Monokid's constant bullying and decided to kill him by shoving him inside a spiked piano in Kaede Akamatsu's execution, effectively destroying his body when the piano slammed shut. Monodam claimed that the reason why he did this was to unify his siblings and solidify the bonds that they shared, as he saw Monokid nothing more than a noisy trouble maker.

When Monokuma presented a new motive, each other the Monokubs gave a Kubs Pad to each on each of them with the motivational video in it.

Monodam appeared when the students called him out and appeared right in front of him. Where the students questioned him about the motivational video on the Kubs Pad. Gen simply answered that gen will give it to each on of his owners.

Seeing that Monosuke later become a hindrance for the siblings, Monodam made Monosuke get involved in Kirumi Tojo's execution and destroyed in the process in Chapter 2's Class Trial when his body got crushed by Kirumi's falling body.

At some point, Monodam turns against Monokuma, accusing him of treating his children like slaves. Since the Monokubs have Exisals on their side, Monokuma is forced to surrender and decided to take a vacation from the Ultimate Academy and leave it to his children. Monodam took his place temporarily to host the Ultimate Academy and the students as Monokuma was going to go on vacation for a short amount of time.

Monodam appears again when Angie Yonaga opened her Research Lab and explained everything about the Research Lab. When Monotaro and Monophanie began to fight, Monodam wasn't mad at them.

In Chapter 3, the Monokubs told the students to meet in the gym, where Monotaro, Monophanie and himself appeared. Monodam ordered his siblings to present the new motive as they practice. Monotaro and Monophanie presented a new Motive to the students before Monokuma went on his vacation from the Ultimate Academy. Where they told the students that they could resurrect one of their dead classmates as a "transfer student" and participate in the Killing School Semester once again.

Monodam once again appears in the computer room along with Monophanie and Monotaro where they presented to Shuichi the new computer that could create a completely "new world" with this technology. The Monokubs also gave Shuichi a Flashback Light with a new memory.

Monotaro and Monophanie were usually beaten up by Monodam as a punishment for not getting along with the others.

Angie breaking the Flashback Light
Monodam and the other Monokubs appeared in the cafeteria with the students to give them a Flashback Light to prepare their no plan. However, Angie grabbed the Flashback Light and destroyed it right in front of the monokubs. The Monokubs were shocked because their plan failed since Angie went far to break a Flashback Light. Monotaro and Monophanie began to question Monodam about the situation, but has nothing to say and left the cafeteria. All confused, Monotaro didn't know what to do and left as well along with Monophanie.

Monodam later appeared when Angie's body was found in her Research Lab. There, Monodam and the other Monokubs gave to the students the Monokuma File. Later during the investigation when Tenko's body was found the Monokubs where shocked to see two murders during the investigation for the Class Trial. Since the Monokubs didn't know what to do in that situation, the Monokubs started to question Monodam what should they do. However, Monodam had no idea what to do as he never knew something like this would happen, the other Monokubs started to call their father for help. After their father, Monokuma appeared he began no ton lick them for their cuteness. Monokuma explained how this situation worked and later left the crime scene leaving the room.

Eventually, Monodam took his own life as he burnt himself in the fire in Korekiyo Shinguji's execution after he saw himself couldn't befriend with his siblings anymore, he also made the flames boil Korekiyo even more as he was being burned alive.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 3 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 3 Execution

In Chapter 5, Monokuma is seen crying for his deceased children as all of them are dead.

Monotaro was mentioned when Monokuma first showed the students where the Monokubs store the Exisals Units. Since Monotaro and his other siblings were dead, Monokuma gave to the students this room since no one can't use the Exisals but the Monokubs.

Monokubs' 
The Monokubs reapear
Once all of the Monokuma Kubs got destroyed, Monokuma started to mourn for his children because of how they got destroyed. Monodam and his siblings were rebuilt by Monokuma after Kokichi Oma's Class Trial and began to be active once again to assist his father in the Mutual Killing Game. Monokuma stated that the factory that built the Monokubs were still in function and bought the latest models of them. Monokuma specially brought them back to have power from the Exisals since Monokuma can't control them, but Monodam and his sibilings can. Monodam and the other Monokubs don't know what had happened around in the killing game and are confused in a way.

Monokuma and the Monokubs, riding their Exisals, arrive and threaten to destroy K1-B0 for damaging the school and ending the Killing Game. K1-B0 reassures everyone to find the truth while he engages the Monokubs in combat, fighting them the entire time everyone else is investigation the real truth about the Killing Game. Monodam was walking around of the academy riding his Exisal searching for the students. When Shuichi discovered the truth, Shuichi asked Monokuma, his children, and K1-B0 to stop fighting and asked Monokuma to do one final Class Trial. Monokuma ordered his Monokubs to take care of K1-B0 as he needed to be fixed and remove his weapons around him.

Danganronpa V3 Class Trial Argue - Monokuma Kubs (1)
Monodam and his siblings were once again present in the final Class Trial. However, Monokuma manipulated the Monokubs to participate as they were necessary to, if they didn't they will get destroyed one by one before everyone dies at the end. The Monokubs are much more invested in the discussion this time than how he was in any prior trial, actively trying to refute evidence that the survivors presented. Monotaro was the last one along with Monophanie to explode among the other Monokubs.

Creation and 

Like Gundham Tanaka, Monodam's name is a reference to the Gundam mecha anime series. His much stronger resemblance to a stereotypical robot compared to the other Monokuma units can also be seen as further referencing it.

Alternate 
He also appears in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) along with his brothers. He first appeared when Yasuhiro Hagakure's body was found. He later appeared in the Class Trial along with his father and brothers. In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Monodam and his siblings are headmasters of a Hope's Peak Academy like school.

Appearance 
Danganronpa V3 Monodam Sprite (1)
Monodam's appearance is similar to that of his father, Monokuma, but the part that is black on Monokuma is an olive green color. Likewise, his right eye is gray with a red pupil while his left eye is white. He also has light gray cheeks, meant to represent blushing, and a yellow pacifier in his mouth to represent the fact that he is a child.

While all the siblings are robots, Monodam is more robotic in appearance, his limbs being made of gray, bendable metal. He also speaks in a stereotypical, monotone robotic way.

When he gets nervous, his ears pop up, releasing steam. Like a rocket, he is also capable of flying forward very fast, leaving behind a trail of bright light. He can also extend and retract his limbs to a small extent.

In the Anthology manga, Gonta thought that Monodam looked very similar to a drone beetle due to his shape and his green color and tied him to a tree.

Personality 
Monodam is a child-like robot. Unlike his overly talkative siblings, he is very quiet. For the most part, he doesn't speak even to his fellow siblings, and he is somewhat of an outcast in the group.He sometimes appears a bit shy and seems to be blushing, like during the time when he made his first official announcement.

When he does talk, Monodam speaks in a typical monotone robotic manner, making him appear very emotionless and thus unpredictable. He tends to silently stare at others, with no visible reaction when others speak to him. He occasionally speaks short sentences unexpectedly in a rather loud voice, which may startle others due to his usual silence. The rare moments when he laughs sounds especially unnatural due to his very robotic voice. All of this causes him to come across rather creepy, much more so than his siblings. Like all the Kubs, Monodam imitates Monokuma by constantly calling the students "you bastards" and having his own version of his father's signature laughーa monotone "pu-hu-hu-hu".

Monodam is constantly bullied by Monokid, both verbally and physically, possibly because of his different looks. Monokid has fun making up new ways to be cruel towards Monodam and he also tends to blame Monodam for anything that goes wrong. This is said to be the reason why Monodam has closed his heart long ago. He appears to protest very little or even react against the abuse he endures. However, he later states he strongly dislikes bullying, and in the anthology manga he seems to even break his silence to react whenever someone says the word "bullying". Despite appearing very unresponsive, it's later shown that he seems to act more independent than the other Kubs, like when he arrived to deliver Kubs Pads by the students' request all by himself and mentioned that the other Kubs were asleep.

Later, Monodam's character takes an even darker turn, as he suddenly kills the siblings who bullied him and forces the rest into submission with threats of violence, making even Monokuma creeped out of his actions. He even forcefully takes Monokuma's place and becomes a temporary headmaster, accusing Monokuma of treating his children like slaves, though later Monokuma claims that he was just taking a vacation and gave the Kubs the place. Monodam turns very passive aggressive, saying that everyone should get along and be friends... or else "he won't forgive them". Claiming everyone is friends and everything should be harmonious, Monodam even appears to be against murders and the killing game, though he later seems fine with them since the class trials increase the students' unity. Monodam physically abuses his siblings whenever they do something wrong in his eyes since according to him friends punish each other when one does something wrong. Despite this, the other two Kubs are later seen speaking back to him or even ignore him completely. In the end, he ends up killing himself by running into flames during an execution, because he saw himself as incapable of getting along any longer with his siblings. It's also implied that he was inspired to do this by the other Kubs and Monokuma's talk about how some people get more "popular" after dying since other people then talk about and think about them much more.

Monodam's hidden aggression seems to be hinted at in the Prologue when the Kubs use their Exisals to chase the students into the gym—while the other Exisals are seen taking slow steps, Monodam is seen charging towards Kaede and Shuichi at full speed.

After Monokuma rebuilt him and the Kubs were under a threat of being exploded if they didn't make good arguments, Monodam started to become a little more concerned for his siblings and started to talk more than he used to, and he multiple times advised his siblings to be quiet and listen to the conversation. It appears that he is the most intelligent out of the Kubs, as he is capable of staying calm and make logical arguments when the other Kubs were too scared and confused to do so, and even when he knew barely anything about what is going on. He also became more aggressive during the final Class Trial and started to participate, unlike in the previous ones, trying to protect his siblings and the Mastermind. After he warned his siblings not to shout so much or else their father will yell at them, he was destroyed by Monokuma.


Controlling the 
Monodam, along with the other Monokubs, are the only ones who can control the Exisals.

Monodam can control the Exisals on his command to manipulate the students into doing something since the Exisals carry dangerous weapons such as a saw and a gun. He also uses the Exisals to punish any students who break the school's rules.

In Chapter 3, Monodam and the other remaining siblings even forced Monokuma to surrender and give them the power to control the Academy, as Monokuma couldn't stop them because they were using the deadly Exisals.

One of the reasons he was broke back was especially because of him and his siblings being the only ones with the ability to control the Exisals.

Fixing and rebuilding 
Monodam and his siblings seem to be able to repair and fix machines as they were the ones responsible to fix K1-B0's antenna to get a signal from the audience from the outside world and are also able to remove gear and heavy weapons around him.


Family:

Monokuma is the self-proclaimed father of Monodam, Monotaro, Monokid, Monosuke and Monophanie.

He calls them his "adorable children" and seems even disturbingly attracted to them because they look like him and he loves his own looks. He is mostly annoyed and neglectful towards the Monokubs, physically abusing them whenever they annoy him, and even stating that he tolerates them only because they're so cute.

Monodam tends to call Monokuma simply "father". When Monokuma was assumed dead, Monodam appeared very shocked, but still remained completely silent.

Later, Monodam turns against Monokuma, accusing him of treating his children like slaves. Since the Kubs have Exisals on their side, Monokuma is forced to surrender (though he later claims he was simply taking a vacation and gave the Kubs the job). Even Monokuma seems creeped out by Monodam. When Monodam later commits suicide, Monokuma is shocked at first, but then seems to think that his own child committing suicide is just adorable.

Monokuma 
Monotaro, Monokid, Monosuke, and Monophanie are Monodam's siblings. Monodam is the quietest of all the members and usually does not speak to anyone due to his backstory of being bullied. He goes as far to even kill his other sibling who bullied him and takes control of his other siblings to get along and be friends.


Monokid loves to bully his brother, Monodam, both verbally and physically, even though they should be comrades. He also tends to blame Monodam for everything, no matter how illogical the suggestion would be.

Monokid says Monodam has "an ugly and cheap-looking body", implying that he may dislike him because of his different looks. It's said that this is the reason why Monodam has closed his heart. Monodam usually stays completely silent and doesn't seem to react to Monokid's hostile words nor actions.

In Chapter 1, Monodam surprisingly killed Monokid during Kaede's execution. He claims that he did it for the sake of solidifying the siblings' bonds, as Monokid was unable to live in peace with them due to his personality.

In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Monodam is seen having his revenge on Monokid once again, as he seemingly kicks the other Kub while he is lying on the floor after eating too much honey.

Monosuke 
Monosuke seems to find Monodam a bit boring due to his silence and wishes he would talk more for the sake of entertainment.

After Monodam murdered Monokid, Monosuke finds the turn of events very interesting, but also becomes suspicious of Monodam and keeps reminding the other cubs of what he did.

During the second trial, Monodam repeatedly defends Monosuke after his slip-up provides the students critical information. However, Monosuke does not appreciate this and keeps his belief that the Kubs should be hostile towards each other, causing Monodam to murder him during the execution.


Monotaro seems to like Monodam of all the other male brothers he haves. Monotaro seems a little upset and surprised that Monodam refuses to speak even to him, seemingly not considering him a close friend.

Later, Monodam forcefully takes Monokuma's place and forces Monotaro and Monophanie into submission, threatening them with violence if they refuse while claiming it's all for the sake of them getting along. Because of this, the two other Kubs are afraid of Monodam. However, Monotaro later speaks back to Monodam, telling him that he doesn't understand "the power of love" because he has never been loved when they try to get their father back.

Monotaro is later seen ignoring Monodam multiple times, though this is possibly due to his memory issues. Due to his memory problems, Monotaro immediately forgets who Monodam was after he died.

Monotaro later seems to respect Monodam more as he saves his life during the final trial.


In general, Monophanie seems to like Monodam. She thinks he is cute whenever he is being shy.

Later, she doesn't really seem to care that Monodam killed Monokid, since she hated him anyway. However, after Monodam forcibly takes the headmaster's place and threatens the other kubs into submission with violence, Monophanie is afraid of him as well. She occasionally tries to calm him down whenever he is angered.

However, later, both Monophanie and Monotaro are seen ignoring Monodam multiple times. After Monodam commits suicide, Monophanie appears saddened and grieves, though also keeps claiming that she never bullied Monodam and only the other siblings did.

Ultimate Academy Students':
Monodam and the Monokubs are all under the control of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles' students and host the Killing School Semester along with his father. The Monokubs usually call the students' "bastards" to imitate his father, as he always calls the students by using that. The Monokubs also always give to the students the awards after completing the Class Trial by making it out alive.

Unlike the other Monokubs, Monodam doesn't really interact with them that much and usually keeps quiet or ignores them due to his heart being closed and refusing to talk to others.

Monodam seems to be against murders and the killing game itself as he doesn't like his father's doing.

He wants the students to get along and be friends similar to how he wants his siblings to be with everyone.


DRV3
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English) Character Trailer:

"THANK-YOU-FATHER. BUT-THE-ACADEMY-IS-UNDER-OUR-HARMONIOUS-CONTROL-NOW."
Chapter 2:

"I...WOULD-NEVER-DO-THAT. I-JUST...WANT-TO-GET-ALONG."
"HAVE-A-WONDERFUL-KILLING-SCHOOL-SEMESTER-TODAY.
"NO-MORE-BLAMING-EACH-OTHER. EVERYBODY-MAKES-MISTAKES. I-WANT-US-ALL-TO-GET-ALONG."
"IF-YOU-NEED-TO-VOMIT...LET-IT-OUT. YOU-WILL-FEEL-MUCH-BETTER-AFTERWARD. NO-MATTER-WHAT... WE-MUST-ALWAYS-GET-ALONG. NOT-EVEN-FATHER-CAN-STOP-US-FROM-GETTING-ALONG."
Chapter 3:

"THANK-YOU, FATHER, BUT-THE-ACADEMY-IS-UNDER-OUR-HARMONIOUS-CONTROL-NOW. ...STEP-ASIDE, FATHER."
"WE-LOOK-FORWARD-TO-WORKING-WITH-YOU. I-HOPE-WE-CAN-ALL...GET-ALONG."
"NO-FIGHTING. EVERYONE-HAS-TO-GET-ALONG."
"WE-KNOW...EVERYTHING-ABOUT-YOU-BASTARDS. BECAUSE-WE-WANT-TO-BE-YOUR-FRIENDS."
"I-WON'T-FORGIVE-ANYONE-WHO-REFUSES-TO-GET-ALONG-WITH-ME!"
"SOMEONE-MIGHT-USE-THIS-KEY...FOR-MURDER. BECAUSE-KEYS...ARE-MYSTERIOUS. IF-SOMETHING-BAD-HAPPENS, IT-WOULD-BE-TOO-LATE... I-WANT ...EVERYONE-TO-GET-ALONG."
"THAT-PUZZLE-WAS-TOO-DIFFICULT-FOR-ONE-PERSON-TO-SOLVE. I'M-SURE... THEY-GOT-ALONG-AND-SOLVED-IT-TOGETHER."
"IF-YOU-CAN'T-GET-ALONG... YOU-WILL-BE-PUNISHED. YOU-TOO, MONOTARO. FRIENDS-SHARE-EVERYTHING...EVEN-PUNISHMENTS."
"IF-YOU-DON'T-GET-ALONG...I-WON'T-FORGIVE-YOU. I-WILL-USE-THE-EXISALS-TO-PEEL-YOUR-FACES-OFF-LIKE-MANDARIN-ORANGES."
"IF-YOU-FACE-A-FEAR-LIKE-NEVER-BEFORE, YOU'LL-HAVE-NO-CHOICE...BUT-TO-UNITE."
"BUT...THERE-IS-MORE-TO-FRIENDSHIP-THAN-BEING-NICE. FRIENDS-ALSO-PUNISH-EACH-OTHER-WHEN-THEY-DO-SOMETHING-WRONG."
"WHAT-IS-THE-POINT-OF-HUMAN-LIFE? THEY'RE-BORN-AS-USELESS-BABIES-WHO-CAN'T-DO-ANYTHING..."
"WE...WANT-YOU-TO-GET-EVEN-CLOSER-WITH-EACH-OTHER..."
"DON'T-WORRY... OVERCOMING-THIS-WILL-BRING-EVERYONE-CLOSER-TOGETHER. THAT-HAS-BEEN-THE-CASE-SO-FAR, YES? THEIR-BOND-GETS-STRONGER-WITH-EACH-CLASS-TRIAL, DOES-IT-NOT?"
"MURDERS-ARE-NECESSARY-TO-BRING-EVERYONE-CLOSER-TOGETHER."
"CONDUCT-A-FRIENDLY-INVESTIGATION. THEN, WE-WILL-HAVE-A-FRIENDLY-CLASS-TRIAL.
"I'M-SCARED-TOO... SCARED-OF-LOSING-MY-FRIENDS."
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Monodam is the only character not to talk in the demo.
In the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Monodam can be found behind the school. He calls Shuichi "detective" while asking him if he knew that his father Monokuma only eats salmon. He then discreetly hands the boy 12 casino coins and leaves. When talked to a second time, he is seemingly frozen and repeats "UP-UP-DOWN-DOWN... LEFT-RIGHT-LEFT-RIGHT-B-A...", a clear reference to the Konami Code. He then discreetly gives Shuichi 7 casino coins.
Monodam's English voice actor, Jason Wishnov, also provides the voice for Byakuya Togami and the Ultimate Imposter when they are in their Byakuya disguise in Danganronpa games.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Monodam the 3rd most popular Danganronpa V3 Monokuma Unit.

Monophanie (モノファニー Monofanii, Monofunny in the original Japanese) is one of the antagonists featured Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

She is part of a group called the Monokuma Kubs along with her brothers Monotaro, Monosuke, Monokid and Monodam that control Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles alongside Monokuma. She is the only female member, as well as the gentlest one.

Contents[hide]
History
Creation
Killing School Semester
Introduction
Monokuma's entrance
Age of the Monokubs
Monophanie's Fate
Monokubs' Return
Creation and Development
Name
Alternate Fates
Appearance
Personality
Abilities
Controlling the Exisals
Relationships
Monokuma
Monokuma Kubs
Monotaro
Monosuke
Monokid
Monodam
Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles
Quotes
List of Appearances
Trivia
References
Navigation


Monokubs IntroductionMonophanie, along with her four other siblings were created by Team Danganronpa, a group of people who created the famous reality show called Danganronpa, a series which tells the story about Killing Games. Monophanie and the Monokubs' roles are to aid Monokuma in hosting the Killing Game.
It is unknown in which Killing Game they started to join, as well as their creation time. Their notable appearance is the last Killing Game entry, the 53rd one (also known as the Killing School Semester.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Exisals ambushing the students
After the students woke up and left the classroom, the Monokubs began to drag every student to the gymnasium. After every student entered the gym, the Monokubs entered the gymnasium with their Exisals and they appeared before all the students by jumping from their Exisals, showing their robotic body that has a shape similar to bear. Although this seems strange to the students and raises many questions, Monokid and the others concentrate on incoherent things until at last, they realize that the students did not possess the appropriate clothes to be "Definitive Students", for which they give them new clothes. Realizing that Monophanie did not fulfill his task, the Monokubs are forced to stop the beginning of the mutual killing game and wait another time, restarting everything and returning some memories to all the students.

It was revealed that this event happened right before the 53rd Killing Game occurred when the students' memories were about to be fabricated by Team Danganronpa.

Together with her father, Monophanie and the Monokuma Kubs rule the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles. Monophanie and his siblings use the Exisals robots to corner the students to the gymnasium, where they started to fabricate a group of talentless fifteen students before participating the 53rd Killing Game.

Monokuma's 
Monokuma attack 2
Monophanie and her siblings control the mutual killing game of Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles with her father Monokuma. They are the controller of the Exisals, a robotic beast they use as their personal robots to punish students who defy the school's rules. Monophanie is the only sister in the siblings and also the gentlest among them.

Monophanie along with her siblings were shown on the monitors of the Academy to announce the daytime and nighttime and other events about the killing game.

When Kaito Momota was about to attack Monokuma, the Monokubs appeared to punish him, that was until they accidentally squished Monokuma with the Exisals, which resulting in his explosion. Monophanie began to cry for her father, later followed by his siblings, thinking he is truly gone. The Kubs then leave to go to commemorate their father's demise.

Later Monokuma reappeared the next day and made the Monokubs happy to see that their father is still alive.

Monphanie and the others appear again during the first Class Trial, in which when Kaede Akamatsu is voted as the culprit her companions try to protect her from the execution, but nevertheless, the Monokuma Kubs threaten them with their Exisals so that they couldn't intervene with Kaede's execution.

During her execution, Monophanie along with the other Monokuma Kubs helped Monokuma to orchestrate the execution by pulling the rope tied to Kaede's neck until she died from Asphyxia. At the end of the execution, Monodam killed Monokid by pushing him inside the slam-shutting piano's cover spikes.

Monotaro, Monophanie, and Monosuke were all shocked and confused as to why Monokid was executed as well where-as Monokuma simply brushes it off and stated that at least he only has four more kids. After Monokuma left, the remaining Kubs questioned Monodam, but he simply states that it was "For their own good" before leaving as well.

Monotaro and Monophanie were both still bewildered, but Monosuke didn't think much of it and simply states that Monodam killed Monokid because he was bullying him. After this, the remaining Monokuma Kubs left the Class Trial room as well.

After the end of the chapter, the Monokubs presented to the students their prizes for completing and surviving the Class Trial.

Age of the 
With Kirumi Tojo being executed, Monosuke also ended up being murdered by Monodam due to him being very mean to Monodam during Chapter 2, which shocked and scared Monophanie and Monotaro because of Monodam's actions.

Monodam turns against Monokuma, accusing him of treating his children like slaves. Since the Monokubs have Exisals on their side, Monokuma is forced to surrender. Monokuma seems to be happy about the Monokubs. He then decides to take a vacation and leave the Academy to his children.

Monotaro and Monophanie giving the motive
In Chapter 3, Monotaro and Monophanie presented a new Motive to the students before Monokuma went on his vacation from the Ultimate Academy. Where they told the students that they could resurrect one of their dead classmates as a "transfer student" and participate in the Killing School Semester once again.

Monophanie once again appears in the computer room along with Monophanie and Monodam where they presented to Shuichi the new computer that could create a completely "new world" with this technology. The Monokubs also gave Shuichi a Flashback Light with a new memory.

Angie breaking the Flashback Light
Monotaro and the other Monokubs appeared in the cafeteria with the students to give them a Flashback Light to prepare their no plan. However, Angie grabbed the Flashback Light and destroyed it right in front of the Monokubs. The Monokubs were shocked because their plan failed since Angie net far to break a Flashback Light. Monotaro began to question Monodam about the situation, but doesn't have anything to say and left the cafeteria. All confused, Monotaro didn't know what to do and left as well along with Monophanie.

Monophanie later appeared when Angie's body wasn't found in her Research Lab. Monophanie started to vomit a lot of green due to her being not good on for things. There, Monophanie and the other Monokubs gave to the students the Monokuma File. Later during the investigation when Tenko's body was found, the Monokubs were shocked to see two murders during the investigation for the Class Trial. Since the Monokubs didn't know what to do in that situation, they called their father for help. After their father, Monokuma appeared he began to ton lick them for their cuteness. Monokuma explained how this situation worked and later left the crime scene.

During the end of Chapter 3, Monotaro and Monophanie assisted Monokuma to execute Korekiyo Shinguji. During the execution, Monodam committed suicide by rushing past Monotaro and Monophanie and into the flame that was boiling Korekiyo alive, causing it to burn even more.

During Chapter 4, Monotaro believed he was a drunken husband and Monophanie was her wife and both of them started a romantic relationship afterward.

Monophanie's 
In Chapter 4's trial, Monophanie began to have stomach pains. Monotaro thought they were going to have a baby. Monotaro and Monophanie were involved in Gonta Gokuhara's execution. Monophanie was unknowingly carrying a robotic growing wasp inside her belly, and later she was killed after she gave "birth" to the insect when it exploded through her stomach and then proceeded to slice Monotaro in half. This was all a ploy by Monokuma as the cubs were boring him and that "bad things always happen to children whose parents don’t care about them."

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 4 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 4 Execution

In Chapter 5, Monokuma is seen crying for his deceased children as all of them were dead.

Monokuma mourning over the Monokubs
Monophanie was mentioned when Monokuma first showed the students where the Monokubs store the Exisals Units. Since Monotaro and his other siblings were dead, Monokuma gave the students this room since no one can use the Exisals but the Monokubs.

Monokubs' 
Once all of the Monokuma Kubs got destroyed Monokuma started to mourn for his children because of how they got destroyed. Monophanie and her brothers were rebuilt by Monokuma after Kokichi Oma's Class Trial and began to be active once again to assist their father in the Mutual Killing Game. Monokuma stated that the factory that built the Monokubs were still in function and brought the latest models of them. Monokuma specially brought them back to have power from the Exisals since Monokuma can't control them, but Monophanie and her siblings can. Monotaro and the other Monokubs don't know what has happened around in the killing game and are confused in a way.

Danganronpa V3 Class Trial Argue - Monokuma Kubs (1)
Monokuma and the Monokubs, riding their Exisals, arrive and threaten to destroy K1-B0 for damaging the school and ending the Killing Game. K1-B0 reassures everyone to find the truth while he engages the Monokubs in combat, fighting them the entire time everyone else is investigation the real truth about the Killing Game. Monophanie and her siblings are once again present in the final Class Trial. Despite that, being brought back by Monokuma, her father had a self-destruct button prepared which he promptly used to destroy the Kubs once again when they got on his nerves or did anything to anger him.

Creation and 

In the original Japanese release, her name is Monofunny (モノファニー).

Monophanie is the only character to drastically change her name in the game's English localization from Monofunny to Monophanie. This could be to note that she is the only female member of her group.

Alternate 
She also appears in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) along with his brothers. She first appeared when Yasuhiro Hagakure's body was found. In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Monophanie and her siblings are headmasters of a Hope's Peak Academy like school.


Danganronpa V3 Monophanie Sprite (1)
Monophanie's appearance is similar to that of her father, Monokuma, but the part that is black on Monokuma consists of pink and vertical magenta stripes on Monophanie. Likewise, her eye is white, contrasting Monokuma's. Unlike most Monokumas, her whole left eye occasionally glows white light instead of having a small red glow. She also has bright pink cheeks.

She wears a brown bikini top with a sakura flower printed on both sides. She wears a light pink flower and has a yellow pacifier. She also usually carries a big sunflower with her.

Personality 
Monophanie is a child-like robot with a feminine personality. Her personality appears much more gentle than her brothers, and her kindness is mentioned to be "a unique character trait", which seems to make her somewhat well-liked by her father and siblings, though it can also annoy the other bears who are more openly "evil". She isn't good with gore and cruelness, which is why she is very often seen vomiting, with the vomit even turning different colors depending on the situation.According to Monotaro, her green puke is an omen of bad luck and disaster, and anyone who sees her blue puke will have good luck.

In general, Monophanie is considered "the cute one", with a tendency to do cute things like trying to solve the killing game via rock-paper-scissors, or suddenly falling asleep, and liking flowers. Furthermore, she is mentioned to dislike nasty things like gore and bugs. She also appears to be one of the more sensible and intelligent Monokubs, being often shocked and confused by her brothers' crude and confusing remarks. When the siblings begin their usual fighting, she often plays the mediator and seems to dislike arguing, but in the end, she always ends up joining in the fight. While often seeming very gentle and sensitive, she also has a tough side, like when she threatens to defeat all of her four brothers all by herself with her Exisal. She also hits Monotaro multiple times in the head with a frying pan in an attempt to fix his memory. She has referred to herself as a "strong, sensual woman" and says that she shouldn't be underestimated because she's a girl.

Despite her kind demeanor, she can speak in a mean and vulgar manner just like her father and siblings and has a ruthless side. She tends to say things with somewhat mixed messages, beginning her sentence with kindness and then ending it with cruel indications. She may express worry towards others but ultimately seems quite cruel like her other kind. Notably, she is very much willing to destroy K1-B0 in a violent manner, as she thinks it is not really gory since he is a machine (despite the fact that she is also a one). Being a Monokuma, she indeed seems to be evil and messed up even though sometimes appearing nice. Like all the Kubs, she imitates her father by calling the students "you bastards".

She is shown to act somewhat like a fangirl towards her father and even appears to feel some attraction towards him, as she is the only one who enjoys her father licking her and even licks him back every time. She also agrees to have a romantic relationship with Monotaro after he begins to have severe memory issues, only reminding him of their family relation once and ultimately not really seeming to care. Due to his memory issues, Monotaro is seen acting abusively towards Monophanie at times, making her sad but also feel bad for him due to his condition. At one point, when she assumes Monotaro is seeing other women, she claims sadly that she doesn't mind as long as he is happy. She is very saddened when Monotaro begins to help the students and rejects her, and ultimately decides to protect someone important (implied to be their baby).

However, Monophanie is shown to be very abusive as well, as she severely beats up Monotaro with a frying pan in order to have him return to their side. When Monotaro finally returned back to normal, she mocked the students as he was no longer an ally to them, and accused them of taking advantage of his condition (even though she seems to do the same). Monophanie and Monotaro were later seen excited about having multiple cubs, but this turned out to be just an example of Monokuma's sick sense of humor which destroyed them both during the execution.

After she is revived, Monokuma threatens to blow her up along with her siblings if they don't make good arguments. Monophanie is mostly confused during the last trial, and gives her brothers praise whenever they participate well. Monophanie and Monotaro eventually end up as the last ones left and they are scared and cry, not knowing what else to do, and beg Shuichi to let them win and live. Nevertheless, they both end up destroyed.


Controlling the 
Monophanie, along with the other Monokubs, are the only ones who can control the Exisals.

Monophanie can control the Exisals on her command to manipulate the students into doing something since the Exisals carry dangerous weapons such as a saw and a gun. She also uses the Exisals to punish any students who break the school's rules.

In Chapter 3, Monophanie and the other remaining siblings even forced Monokuma to surrender and give them the power to control the Academy, as Monokuma couldn't stop them because they were using the deadly Exisals.


Family:

Monokuma is the self-proclaimed father of Monophanie, Monotaro, Monokid, Monosuke and Monodam.

He calls them his "adorable children" and seems even disturbingly attracted to them because they look like him and he loves his own looks. He is mostly annoyed and neglectful towards the Kubs, physically abusing them whenever they annoy him, and even stating that he tolerates them only because they're so cute.

Monophanie refers to Monokuma as "daddy". Out of all the Monokubs, she seems to admire and respect their father the most, often praising him and saying how cool and handsome he is like a fan girl. She even licks him back when he licks all of the cubs' faces and is the only cub who loves being licked by him (with the others hating it). It's shown that she even appears to feel some attraction towards Monokuma (which isn't that surprising considering that she later had a relationship with Monotaro). Monokuma also seems to like Monophanie the most due to her unique kind personality and general cuteness, though her overly nice behavior can also irritate him, and he once creepily stated that he could eat her up, which startled even her. Monophanie is also later shown to be saddened by Monokuma's increasingly cruel behavior towards his cubs, as according to her he used to be much more loving towards his children.

In Chapter 4, Monokuma decides to kill both Monotaro and Monophanie during Gonta's execution, giving a petty excuse that they had been ignoring him.

Monokuma 
Monotaro, Monokid, Monosuke, and Monodam are Monophanie's siblings. They all tend to bother each other, with Monophanie being the only one who tries to remedy everything, but always ending up getting into the conflict. The brothers seem more considerate towards her, as she is their only sister.


Her being the only sister, Monotaro appears somewhat fond of Monophanie, and seems to respect her more than the other siblings. Monophanie also seems to like Monotaro the most, as he's the responsible type. Nevertheless, they do bully each other and fight occasionally in the typical Monokub fashion, and Monotaro claims he mocks Monophanie whenever she isn't looking.

During Chapter 3, Monotaro and Monophanie are usually seen fighting with each other and verbally talking to each other. However, they tone it down and claim they're just "getting along" in order to avoid Monodam's punishment.

In Chapter 4, Monotaro's memory turned worse and he forgot his own identity as well as who Monophanie was. He then began to act romantic towards Monophanie, saying he had never thought of her that way before. Though Monophanie tried to remind him they are family, she didn't really care and they then began a strong romance. However, the next morning, Monotaro is seen acting completely different, kicking crying Monophanie and demanding her to give him money like an abusive husband, seemingly due to his memory issues. Because of this, Monophanie hides, causing Monotaro to panic since he can't remember anything. However, Monophanie feels bad for him and later takes him back, and he apologizes as the two of them cry. The announcement then ends with "the end", as if it were all theater.

Later, when Miu's corpse was found, Monophanie tried to cheer up his crying "husband". However, the two argue again, as Monotaro is convinced Miu was his mother and wishes to help the students in order to avenge her. Later, right before Gonta's execution, Monophanie begins to feel pain in her stomach and the two assume that she's having a baby. However, this turns out to be part of the execution, as a giant insect bursts out of Monophanie like in a horror movie and kills both of the Kubs.


While the brothers, in general, seem more considerate towards their only sister, Monosuke dislikes Monophanie's attempts to be nice and make peace, as he believes that as the Monokuma Kubs they should fight each other.

However, during one scene, Monosuke acts charming towards her and offers to buy her a drink.


The brothers, in general, seem more considerate towards their only sister, with even Monokid seemingly agreeing to speak more quietly when Monophanie suddenly falls asleep.

Monophanie seems to dislike Monokid for his personality, occasionally snickering at him and calling him a dummy. Monokid gets easily heated up by this, telling her to shut up and threatening her with bullying.

In Chapter 2, after Monokid's death, Monophanie strongly voices her dislike for him by stating that she always hated him and she bluntly says "screw Monokid".


In general, Monophanie seems to like Monodam. She thinks he is cute whenever he is being shy.

Later, she doesn't really seem to care that Monodam killed Monokid, since she hated him anyway. However, after Monodam forcibly takes the headmaster's place and threatens the other kubs into submission with violence, Monophanie is afraid of him as well. She occasionally tries to calm him down whenever he is angered.

However, later, both Monophanie and Monotaro are seen ignoring Monodam multiple times. After Monodam commits suicide, Monophanie appears saddened and grieves, though also keeps claiming that she never bullied Monodam and only the other siblings did.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted 
Monotaro and the Monokubs are all under the control of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles' students and host the Killing School Semester along with his father. The Monokubs usually call the students' "bastards" to imitate his father, as he always calls the students by using that. The Monokubs also always give to the students the awards after completing the Class Trial by making it out alive.

However, unlike the other Monokubs, Monophanie always tries to be kind to them even though they are mean to her. She always tells them that they shouldn't fight or try to kill each other and solve this by just giving up and die all together to end the killing game.

When both Monotaro and Monophanie died during Gonta's execution, the remaining students were shocked to see that Monokuma killed his own children.


DRV3
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)


"It's rude to scream at the sight of cute little bears like us." (To Kaede Akamatsu)
"Are you sure it's okay to give them a hint so soon...? It's like rewarding a baby with milk when it's been up all night crying!" (Worriedly commenting about helping the students during the Investigation)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Character Trailer:

"He was like...a leaf on the wind..." (A reference to the show Firefly)
"How gory! BLRGHBLRGHBLRGHBLRGHBLRGHBLRGHBLRGH!"
Prologue:

"I'll throw down any time, jabroni! Check yourself before you wreck yourself!"
"Yeah! You need to reclaim your sealed talents by regaining your memories!"
"Yeah! We're not some swift-footed singer who's landed another future ex-boyfriend!"
"Although, if we are monsters, at least we're pretty monsters."
"'Ultimate' basically means you're particularly prodigious in a particular talent."
Chapter 1:

"Yeah! There's nothing you 16 Ultimates can't accomplish if you work together!"
"We won't let you lay a hand on Daddy! We want Daddy to smile every day!"
"Forget the killing game, then! It'd be better for you all to just die together!"
"I'm a strong, sensual woman. Do not underestimate me."
"I-It's cruel, but...it's probably better if one person dies instead of everyone..."
Chapter 2:

"Cry as loud as you want. I'll cry with you. We can spend the night together, crying... And the morning after, I'll write "goodbye" on your mirror in lipstick before I quietly leave."
"But is that really a reason to destroy them? Some humans are really nice!"
Chapter 3:

"It's the age of Monokubs now! Out with the old, in with the new!"
"I hope you all grow even closer now that you've regained more of your memories."
"But it's no ordinary motive. This motive will inspire fear like never before."
"Monodam...let's forgive Monotaro. Forgiving is what friends do, y'know."
"That's not true! Anything is possible with the power of love!"
"Daddyyyyy! I love you, so please go back to normal!"
Chapter 4:

"Oh my... Forgetting your catchphrase is like the kiss of death for a mascot, y'know?"
"The classic carrot-and-stick approach! No one can work a carrot or a stick like Daddy!"
"Staying up late is bad for your skin, so maybe you bastards should go to bed, okay?"
"But...that's fine. As long as he's happy, I'm fine with that. Maybe not today, but someday...I'm gonna be happy too!"
"It's true. People really do change."
"Daddy...I'm glad you're feeling motivated again, but you shouldn't be so hateful."
"Stop them, Grandpa! All this terrible fighting is bad for the baby!"
Chapter 6:

"Ripping a robot apart isn't gory at all, so I can go all out this time!"
"Alright, we're gonna put on a reasonable yet outstanding show and earn our right to live!"
"I still wanna live longer! I wanna see the next chapter! So please—let us win!"
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Monophanie is the first and the only known female Monokuma, as normally all Monokumas have a male identity.
Monophanie is the second character to carry a flower with her, the first being Shirokuma.
Monophanie is the only member of the Monokuma Kubs who had her name changed for the game's localization.
She is also the only character in the game who's name drastically changed.
In the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Monophanie can be found behind the school. She tells Shuichi that he is a weirdo for coming to a place where there is nothing. When questioned why she is there, she gets nervous and claims that some questions in life are best left unanswered. She then gives Shuichi 100 casino coins, "laced with implication".
Monophanie's English voice actress, Natalie Hoover, also voices Sonia Nevermind in the Danganronpa series.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Monophanie the 4th most popular Danganronpa V3 Monokuma Unit.

Monokid (モノキッド Monokiddo) is one of the antagonists featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

He is part of a group called the Monokuma Kubs along with his siblings Monotaro, Monosuke, Monodam, and Monophanie that control Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles alongside Monokuma. He is the most violent member of the group.

Contents[hide]
History
Creation
Killing School Semester
Introduction
Monokuma's entrance
First Investigation and Class Trial
Monokid's Fate
Monokubs' return
Creation and Development
Name
Alternate Fates
Appearance
Personality
Abilities
Controlling the Exisals
Relationships
Monokuma
Monokuma Kubs
Monodam
Monotaro
Monosuke
Monophanie
Kaede Akamatsu
Quotes
List of Appearances
Trivia
References
Navigation


Monokubs IntroductionMonokid, along with his four other siblings were created by Team Danganronpa, a group of people who created the famous reality show called Danganronpa, a series which tells the story about Killing Games. Monokid and the Monokubs' roles are to aid Monokuma in hosting the Killing Game.
It is unknown when they were created and in which Killing Game they started to appear. Their notable appearance is the last Killing Game entry, the 53rd season of the show.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - Pre-Game Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara meeting an Exisal
Together with his father, Monokid and the Monokubs rule the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles. Monokid and his siblings use the Exisals to chase each of the students and take them to the gym. In the end, they chase Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara, being the last students to reach the gym.

The Monokubs entered the gymnasium with their Exisals and they appeared before all the students by jumping from their Exisals, showing their robotic body that has a shape similar to bear. Although this seems strange to the students and raises many questions, Monokid and the others concentrate on incoherent things until at last, they realize that the students did not possess the appropriate clothes to be "Definitive Students", for which they give them new clothes. Realizing that Monophanie did not fulfill her task, the Monokubs are forced to stop the beginning of the mutual killing game and wait another time, restarting everything and returning some memories to all the students.

It was revealed that this event happened right before the 53rd Killing Game occurred, when the students' memories were about to be fabricated by Team Danganronpa. As Kaede and Shuichi discovered that they were inside a giant cage, Monokid stated that no matter how loud she screamed, she would never get someone to listen to her and she could only was her waste time. Also, when Kaede spoke to Monodam, Monokid affirmed that it was his fault that Monodam did not open his heart to anyone, although he shows no remorse for the excessive bullying. The Monokubs then reappear on the academy monitors, telling the students to meet in the academy gym again to get the real start.

Monokuma's 
After all students arrived, the students were scared by the Exisals controlled by the Monokuma Kubs, gigantic robots used to force the students to do what they want intimidating them. Nevertheless, Rantaro Amami said that they would not cause them any harm with the Exisals, otherwise all of the students would already be dead, being flooded by Monosuke and Monokid by their intuition. When asked what it was all about, Rantaro saw how Monokid was about to state the reason but interrupted at the last moment by Monodam saying "Game of Killing". Annoyed to be snatched from his line, Monokid threatened Monodam that he would break his Exisal, which provoked all the Monokuma Kubs and began to fight each other. Their quarrels died down after their father, Monokuma, arrived.

Monokubs laugh
The Kubs were happy to see their father back in the Academy and to start a new killing game. After the announcement, all students are shocked looking at each other with suspicion.

Monokid along with his siblings were shown in the monitors of the Academy to announce the daytime and nighttime and other events about the killing game.

Monokid gave the key to Kaede to have access to her room, Monokid also gave her a "hint", which was that if she stole someone's key she will get the chance to kill someone, Kaede gets annoyed and makes Monokid flee scared.

When Kaito Momota commits violence against Monokuma, the Kubs appear to make the example of what happens when they break a school rule. When Monokuma explodes and "dies", the Kubs begin to cry for their father, thinking he is truly gone and vow to avenge his death.

Later Monokuma reappeared the next day and made the Kubs happy so see their daddy still alive. As a celebration Monokid decided to eat Honey.

Monokid drunk
Monokid was shown drunken after eating a lot of honey and shown to be very tired and stuffed after eating a lot.

First Investigation and Class 
Monokid and the others Monokubs reappear after the murder of Rantaro Amami. Monokid bothered many times to Monodam trying to make this one at least had a minimal expression on the Game of Slaughter that had initiated.

Later Monokid and the other Monokubs announced to the students to head to the basement. After Kaede and Shuichi arrived the Monokubs showed up and gave to the students the printed pictures found at the crime scene.

Monokuma and Kubs in CT
He next to the others appears again during the first Class Trial, in which when Kaede Akamatsu is voted as the culprit her companions try to protect it from his execution, but nevertheless, the Monokuma Kubs threaten them with their Exisals, saying that it was Better a victim than others. Kaede stops her companions from protecting her, accepting guilt and demanding that all hope to leave the Academy and get accustomed to life without her, then begins her execution being carried by a chain.

Monokid's 
Main article: Der Flohwalzer
Monokid along with the other Monokubs assisted his father to execute Kaede Akamatsu. These pulled the rope that had Kaede, until finally, they hanged it. They would make such a horrible melody created by Monokuma that the public would insult them, until the great end where the pull of the Monokuma Kubs ends completely hanging Kaede. When the lid of the piano was about to close to kill Kaede, Monodam has a fit of desperation and pushes Monokid to his death, being crushed by the trap of Kaede, filling with blood and leaving only his damaged head, which disturbingly falls in front of the remaining students.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 1 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 1 Execution

Danganronpa V3 Monokid Ghost SpriteMonokid is later seen as a ghost inhabiting the right one out of three creepy rooms, briefly appearing on the screen whenever his room is entered.
Monokubs' return 
Monokuma mourning over the Monokubs
Once all of the Monokuma Kubs got destroyed Monokuma started to mourn for his children because of how they were destroyed. Monokid and his siblings were rebuilt by Monokuma after Kokichi Oma's Class Trial and began to be active once again to assist his father in the Mutual Killing Game.

Monokid along with his brothers were ordered by his father, Monokuma, to stop K1-B0 from destroying the academy as he began a rampage to end the Killing Game. Monokid and the other Monokubs began to fight in combat with their Exisals.

Monokid and his brothers are once again present in the final class trial, but this time he is much more vocal, and also is much more invested into the discussion this time than how he was in any prior trial, actively trying to refute evidence that the survivors.

Danganronpa V3 Class Trial Argue - Monokuma Kubs (1)
Despite that he and his brothers were all brought back, Monokuma had a self-destruct button prepared which he promptly used to destroy the Kubs once again when they got on his nerves or did anything to anger him. He was overall the first one to explode from the Monokuma Kubs during the Class Trial.

Monokid was revealed to be created by Team Danganronpa as one of the children of Monokuma.

Creation and 
Danganronpa Another Episode Unused Siren Monokuma Design
Monokid's design appears to have been influenced by an unused design for Siren Monokuma which appears in the Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls Official Setting Material art book. Both designs are references to the band Kiss.

Monokid's name seems to come from his personality and appearance as he is loud and also his like of playing music (especially the guitar).

Alternate 
He also appears in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) along with his brothers. He first appeared when Yasuhiro Hagakure's body was found. He later appeared in the Class Trial along with his father and brothers. In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Monokid and his siblings are headmasters of a Hope's Peak Academy like school.

Appearance 
Danganronpa V3 Monokid Sprite (1)Monokid's appearance is similar to his father, Monokuma, but the part that is black on Monokuma is blue on him, though half of the blue on his face is white. Likewise, his eye is black with a red pupil, contrasting Monokuma's and he has bright pink cheeks. He has black chest hair and gray stars around both of his eyes,
Monokid's appearance seems to resemble the popular hard band group KISS. With Monokid and the band members having a star shape in their eyes, a Shoulder Armor and the way they both play the guitar.

Despite being a child robot, he has a deep and rough voice.

Personality 
Monokid is a child-like robot. However, he also has a very bad mouth and a short temper, and he's considered the hooligan of the group. He is a noisy and vulgar bully. He enjoys rock music and playing his guitar, and occasionally shouts exaggerated high-pitched screams like a rockstar. He also apparently loves eating salmon and especially honey, which for some reason can make him drunk and mutter nonsense. In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, he is constantly seen lying on the floor, passed out from eating too much honey. As seen in the Anthology manga, as a robot he also likes to drink oil, though not as much as honey.

He appears to be the most unintelligent Monokub. He doesn't pay attention when others are talking and will randomly spout incoherent nonsense, making him the main cause of conversations getting derailed. He occasionally messes up words or says things backward, and loves to shout his catchphrase "Hell yeah!" He usually repeats things a lot whenever he gets excited over something.

Monokid is also most violent out of the siblings. He gets very excited about violence, claiming that it "turns him on". He also habitually bullies Monodam, even though they should be comrades, and seems to use any opportunity he gets to abuse him for the tiniest reasons or for no reason at all. It's said that this is the reason why Monodam has closed his heart. Monokid also habitually breaks his guitar whenever he gets angry.

Despite his general aggressiveness, he sometimes panics and shouts loudly and fearfully, like whenever his father is angry or at one point when Kaede confronts him. He also seemed to panic and yelled for Shuichi and Kaede to wait when they ran away from his Exisal, seemingly not expecting that to happen. He also tells Monophanie to shut up and threatens her with bullying when she calls him a dummy. All of this might imply that he is secretly insecure. He also shows a more softer side during a scene in the Ultimate Talent Development Plan, after he crashes on a student and then feels bad about it and offers them honey.

After Monokuma rebuilt him and the Kubs were under a threat of being exploded if they didn't make good arguments, Monokid was scared at first, but quickly seemed to lose the focus and just wanted to "spout bollocks and be a nuisance" and constantly kept shouting "hell yeah". After not listening to Monophanie's advice and claiming that Monosuke would get blown up instead of him, he was blown up by Monokuma.


Controlling the 
Monokid, along with the other Monokubs, are the only ones who can control the Exisals.

Monokid can control the Exisals on his command to manipulate the students into doing something since the Exisals carry dangerous weapons such as a saw and a gun. He also uses the Exisals to punish any students who break the school's rules.


Family:
Monokuma 
Monokuma is the self-proclaimed father of Monokid, Monotaro, Monosuke, Monodam and Monophanie.

He calls them his "adorable children" and seems even disturbingly attracted to them because they look like him and he loves his own looks. He is mostly annoyed and neglectful towards the Kubs, physically abusing them whenever they annoy him, and even stating that he tolerates them only because they're so cute.

Monokid tends to call his father "Papa Kuma". While he seems to respect his father a lot, he hates it whenever Monokuma licks his cubs, loudly protesting with "hell nooooo". When Monokuma was assumed dead, Monokid was shocked at first, though still trying to blame Monodam for everything. However, Monokid soon calmed down and agreed with the other Kubs that they should cook their father's remains. He was later surprised to find out that Monokuma is alive, though he was also annoyed that their father would pull such a cliché plot twist.

Monokuma Kubs 
Monotaro, Monodam, Monophanie, and Monosuke are Monokid's siblings.


Monokid loves to bully his brother, Monodam, both verbally and physically, even though they should be comrades. He also tends to blame Monodam for everything, no matter how illogical the suggestion would be.

Monokid says Monodam has "an ugly and cheap-looking body", implying that he may dislike him because of his different looks. It's said that this is the reason why Monodam has closed his heart. Monodam usually stays completely silent and doesn't seem to react to Monokid's hostile words nor actions.

In Chapter 1, Monodam surprisingly killed Monokid during Kaede's execution. He claims that he did it for the sake of solidifying the siblings' bonds, as Monokid was unable to live in peace with them due to his personality.

In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Monodam is seen having his revenge on Monokid once again, as he seemingly kicks the other Kub while he is lying on the floor after eating too much honey.


Monokid seems to have some respect for Monotaro, finding him smart and dependable. However, due to his short temper, he can easily turn hostile towards him.

Monosuke 
Monosuke is sometimes annoyed by Monokid due to his noisy personality and tendency to mess up words but often tries to correct him anyway.

After Monokid died, Monosuke didn't really care much, founding the new development quite interesting and assuming that Monodam simply killed Monokid because he had bullied him. While he doesn't care about Monokid, Monosuke keeps bringing up his death as a warning for the other Kubs, and he appears afraid of suffering the same fate.

Monophanie 
The brothers, in general, seem more considerate towards their only sister, with even Monokid seemingly agreeing to speak more quietly when Monophanie suddenly falls asleep.

Monophanie seems to dislike Monokid for his personality, occasionally snickering at him and calling him a dummy. Monokid gets easily heated up by this, telling her to shut up and threatening her with bullying.

In Chapter 2, after Monokid's death, Monophanie strongly voices her dislike for him by stating that she always hated him and she bluntly says "screw Monokid".

Enemies:
Kaede Akamatsu 
Both meet each other during the Killing Game. Monokid used to mock Kaede for her hope of getting out of the academy along with her other classmates, this being what eventually made Kaede fall into the trap of the Mastermind and be executed incorrectly. Even so, both share their execution.




"I'm pissed! I gotta cool off by beatin' the shit out of Monodam!"
Class Trial:

"Hell yeah! We'd have to rip and tear into your huge guts just to make it entertaining!"
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

According to Monotaro, Monokid has a soft spot for abandoned kittens, but it's unclear if this is just part of his usual nonsense.
In the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Monokid can be found behind the school practicing a songー"byeow-nyeow-nyeow! My pain's a tattoo that's been etched on me for liiiiiiife! Byeow-nyeow-nyeow! If I say I regret it, that would be such a liiiiiiiie!". He then throws 4 casino coins at Shuichi and disappears. When talked to again, he complains about "the wishy-washy, lovey-dovey bullcrap" situation and says that shoving Monodam in a scalding hot bath will heat things up. He then throws 5 casino coins at Shuichi.
Monokid's English voice actor, Patrick Seitz, also voiced Nekomaru Nidai in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Monokid the least popular Danganronpa V3 Monokuma Unit.

Monosuke (モノスケ Monosuke) is one of the antagonists featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

He is part of a group called the Monokuma Kubs along with his siblings Monotaro, Monokid, Monodam and Monophanie that control Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles alongside their father Monokuma. He is the straight man of the group.

Monosuke, along with his four other siblings were created by Team Danganronpa, a group of people who created the famous reality show called Danganronpa, a series which tells the story of Killing Games. Monosuke and the Monokubs' roles are to aid Monokuma in hosting the Killing Game. It is unknown when they were created and in which Killing Game they started to appear. Their notable appearance is the last Killing Game entry, the 53rd season of the show.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Exisals ambushing the students
After the students woke up and left the classroom, the Monokubs began to drag every student to the gymnasium. After every student entered the gym, the Monokubs entered the gymnasium with their Exisals and they appeared before all the students by jumping from their Exisals, showing their robotic body that has a shape similar to bear. Although this seems strange to the students and raises many questions, Monosuke and the others concentrate on incoherent things until at last, they realize that the students did not possess the appropriate clothes to be "Definitive Students", for which they give them new clothes. Realizing that Monophanie did not fulfill her task, the Monokubs are forced to stop the beginning of the mutual killing game and wait another time, restarting everything and returning some memories to all the students.

Monokubs Introduction
It was revealed that this event happened right before the 53rd Killing Game occurred, when the students' memories were about to be fabricated by Team Danganronpa.

Monokuma's 
After the students finished introducing themselves to each other, Monotaro and the Monokubs made an announcement to meet later in the gym again to tell them about the Killing School Semester, Monotaro and his siblings work alongside their father, Monokuma, to control the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles' killing game.

Monokuma attack 2
Afterwards, the Monokubs retreat and reappear when Monokuma made his debut, explaining the rules of their new lives in the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles Killing Game. During the Killing Game, Monosuke and his siblings antagonized the students alongside Monokuma, forcing them to enjoy their Killing Game life.

Monosuke along with his siblings were shown on the monitors of the Academy to announce the daytime and nighttime and other events about the killing game.

When Kaito Momota commits violence against Monokuma, the Kubs appear to make the example of what happens when they break a school rule. When Monokuma explodes and "dies", the Monokubs begin to cry for their father, thinking he is truly gone and vow to avenge his death. Later Monokuma reappeared the next day and made the Monokubs happy so see their father was still alive.

First Investigation and Class 
Monosuke appeared once again along with the other Monokubs when Rantaro Amami was found dead. He and the other Monokubs grabbed the cameras found at the crime scene to print the photos that were taken during the incident.

Monosuke was mentioned that gen along with his other siblings preparing a special pasta for Korekiyo, the name of the dish was "Pasta that tastes like a lonely old lady eating her grandkid's birthday cake ".

Later Monotaro and the other Monokubs announced to the students to head to the basement. After Kaede and Shuichi arrived the Monokubs showed up and gave to the students the printed pictures found at the crime scene.

Monokuma and Kubs in CT
After Kaede Akamatsu was voted as the blackened, Monosuke and his siblings prevented the other students from interfering her execution by threatening to kill them using the Exisals. He assisted Monokuma in executing Kaede by pulling one of the ropes that used to slowly hang Kaede.

During the execution, Monodam killed Monokid, which confused and shocked Monosuke, Monotaro, and Monophanie. Monotaro and Monophanie are both still bewildered, but Monosuke doesn't think much of it and simply states that Monodam killed Monokid because he was bullying him. After this, the remaining Monokubs leave the participants of the Killing School Semester alone.

After the end of the chapter, the Monokubs presented to the students their prizes for completing and surviving the Class Trial.

After some time went past during the Killing Game, Monokuma decided to give a new motive to the students, Monosuke along with the other Monkubs passed to each student a Kubs Pad which contained a secret motivational video about each one of them.

Later when Ryoma Hoshi was murdered, the Monokubs assisted his father during the class trial.

Monosuke's 
After Kirumi was voted as Ryoma's killer, Monosuke got involved in her execution. Monodam pushed Monosuke, after dropping his glasses he searched on the ground and Kirumi Tojo's corpse landed on him and crushed him during the execution.

Afterwards, The Monokubs were once again shocked. After witnessing Monodam causing Monosuke's destruction as well, Monokuma seems visibly shaken by his actions and also explodes.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 2 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 2 Execution

Danganronpa V3 Monosuke Ghost SpriteMonosuke is later seen in Chapter 3 as a ghost inhabiting the left one out of three creepy rooms, briefly appearing on the screen whenever his room is entered.
In Chapter 5, Monokuma is seen crying for his deceased children as all of them are dead.

Monosuke was mentioned when Monokuma first showed the students where the Monokubs store the Exisals Units. Since Monosuke and his other siblings were dead, Monokuma gave to the students this room since no one can't use the Exisals but the Monokubs.

The Monokubs' 
Monokuma mourning over the Monokubs
Once all of the Monokubs were destroyed Monokuma started to mourn his children because of how they got destroyed. Monosuke and his siblings were rebuilt by Monokuma after Kokichi Oma's Class Trial and began to be active once again to assist his father in the Mutual Killing Game.

Monosuke and the other Monokubs were rebuilt once again by Monokuma after they all died during the executions in each chapter as each one of them died. Monokuma and the Monokubs, riding their Exisals, arrive and threaten to destroy K1-B0 for damaging the school and ending the Killing Game. K1-B0 reassures everyone to find the truth while he engages the Monokubs in combat, fighting them the entire time everyone else is investigation the real truth about the Killing Game.

Monosuke and his siblings are once again present in the final class trial, but this time he is much more vocal, and also is much more invested into the discussion this time than how he was in any prior trial, actively trying to refute evidence that the survivors throw at them.

Danganronpa V3 Class Trial Argue - Monokuma Kubs (1)
Despite that he and his siblings were all brought back, however, Monokuma had a self-destruct button prepared which he promptly used to destroy the Monokubs once again when they got on his nerves or did anything to anger him. During the Class Trial, he gets angry, according to Monotaro and Monophanie he has awakened his "true self". He was overall the third one to explode from the Monokuma Kubs during the Final Class Trial.

Creation and Development 
Monosuke as a character is strongly associated with the Osaka area of Japan.He is portrayed as the "straight man" (tsukkomi 突っ込み) of Manzai, a form of Japanese comedy that has been developed in Osaka. He calls other people "funny man" (boke ボケ), the other performer of the double act. He speaks with Osaka-ben, the specific dialect of Kinki Japanese spoken in the Osaka area. Because of associations with Manzai comedy, the speakers are often viewed as being more funny or talkative than typical speakers of other dialects.

Monosuke's tiger-striped pattern is a reference to Hanshin Tigers, the Osaka baseball team. His glasses are a reference to the ones of Kuidaore Taro, a mechanical drum-playing clown in front of Cui-daore, a restaurant in one of the principal tourist destinations in Osaka.

Name 
Monosuke's name could come from the ancient title of Kokushi (often said as no suke when addressing an official with the title. The main job of those entitled to Kokushi is keeping track of taxes, which an abacus can be used to help with, something Monosuke has.

Alternate 
He also appears in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) along with his brothers. He first appeared when Yasuhiro Hagakure's body was found. He later appeared in the Class Trial along with his father and brothers. In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Monosuke and his siblings are headmasters of a Hope's Peak Academy like school.

Appearance 
Danganronpa V3 Monosuke Sprite (1)Danganronpa V3 - Height Chart - Monokuma and Monokubs
Monosuke as a character is strongly associated with the Osaka area of Japan.

Monosuke's appearance is similar to that of his father, Monokuma, but the part that is black on Monokuma consists of yellowish brown and dark brown stripes (a reference to Hanshin Tigers, the Osaka baseball team). Likewise, his left eye is white, contrasting Monokuma's. Unlike most Monokumas, Monosuke's whole left eye occasionally glows white light instead of having a small red glow.

He has bright pink cheeks and eyelashes on his right eye. He dons a pair of round black glasses (which are a reference to the ones of Kuidaore Taro, a mechanical drum-playing clown in front of Cui-daore, a restaurant in one of the principal tourist destinations in Osaka), an abacus, and a yellow pacifier.

He is sometimes seen carrying six Monokuma bills with him.

When he was seen as a ghost in Chapter 3, his appearance mostly stayed the same but his yellow side was changed into blue and his body was more transparent. He also didn't have any legs due to him becoming a ghost.

Personality 
Monosuke is a child-like robot. He is the most cool-headed in the group, seemingly remaining calm whenever the other Monokubs are shocked and analyzes the situations. At first glance, he appears to be the most intelligent as well, being capable of having much more cohesive and intelligent conversations. However, despite this, he is neither mature nor docile, and he has a horrible mouth similar to Monokid. He is somewhat aggressive and tends to call others stupid.

With a calm nature, Monosuke acts like the straight man of a double act stand-up comedy and provides snark to the group's dynamic. To emphasize this, he speaks in Kansai dialect in the Japanese version and New Jersey accent in the English version. He tends to be the one correcting his siblings whenever they say something nonsensical and is sometimes annoyed by them. Whenever his siblings talk their usual nonsense, he tends to intervene by continuing "...more importantly".

Being a Monokuma, he enjoys killing and gore, though he acts more calm about it than overly excited Monokid. He enjoys chasing students with his Exisal. In general, he doesn't seem to get as emotional as the other Kubsーhe dislikes heartfelt moments and doesn't seem to care much about others, even calling his father useless at one point. In fact, he strongly approves of hostility and infighting among the group, believing that the Monokuma Kubs should be "awkward and unsociable" and insisting that they should be scary and nasty. Because of this, he appears quite nonchalant whenever his siblings include him in their arguments. He doesn't even seem to care about his sibling dying as he didn't care much about Monokid when Monodam killed him during the first execution, and just seemed glad that things had finally got interesting. However, he was also scared of Monodam because he killed one of the Monokubs and tried to warn his other siblings to watch out for him, though mainly appearing concerned for himself.

As a rather notable trait, Monosuke also seems to have great interest in money, success and becoming popular, as he occasionally comes up with new business ideas, like selling Monokuma Files for funerals or having merchandise of the Exisals, in hopes of becoming rich. While generally appearing smarter than the other Kubs, he might show-off (as his siblings put it) and accidentally slip out. He is also known to be very impatient whenever he feels cranky, which is notably seen when he announces both day and nighttime at the same time even though the day had just begun.

After he was rebuilt and brought back by Monokuma, Monosuke and the other Kubs were under a threat of being exploded if they didn't make good arguments, which made Monosuke panic quite a lot especially since the Kubs didn't have any memories nor knowledge of what had happened. In a desperate attempt to defend Tsumugi and not get destroyed, Monosuke even abandoned his own ideologies and tried to act cheerful and encourage everyone to smile, get along and be happy. However, this turned out to be a wrong move, as he was almost immediately destroyed by Monokuma.


Controlling the 
Monosuke, along with the other Monokubs, are the only ones who can control the Exisals.

Monosuke can control the Exisals on his command to manipulate the students into doing something since the Exisals carry dangerous weapons such as a saw and a gun. He also uses the Exisals to punish any students who break the school's rules.

One of the reasons he was broke back was especially because of him and his sibilings being the only ones with the ability to control the Exisals. Monotaro's ability to use the Exisals was demonstrated more clearly in Chapter 6 when he and K1-B0 were having an intense fight.

Fixing and 
Monosuke and his siblings seem to be able to repair and fix machines as they were the ones responsible to fix K1-B0's antenna to get a signal from the audience from the outside world and are also able to remove gear and heavy weapons around him.


Family:

Monokuma is the self-proclaimed father of Monosuke, Monotaro, Monokid, Monodam and Monophanie.

He calls them his "adorable children" and seems even disturbingly attracted to them because they look like him and he loves his own looks. He is mostly annoyed and neglectful towards the Monkubs, physically abusing them whenever they annoy him, and even stating that he tolerates them only because they're so cute.

Monosuke tends to call his father "pops". When Monokuma was assumed dead, Monosuke didn't seem to care much and was seemingly more interested in the fact that the Monokubs were now the new headmasters. After Monokuma turned out to be alive, possessing many copies of himself, Monosuke seemed more intrigued by the idea that somewhere in the school there is a machine that makes copies of him.

Monosuke sometimes speaks rudely back at Monokuma and even calls him useless at one point. However, Monokuma just finds this cute and forcibly tries to lick him affectionally, which is disliked by Monosuke.

Monokuma 

Monosuke seems to find Monodam a bit boring due to his silence and wishes he would talk more for the sake of entertainment.

After Monodam murdered Monokid, Monosuke finds the turn of events very interesting, but also becomes suspicious of Monodam and keeps reminding the other cubs of what he did.

During the second trial, Monodam repeatedly defends Monosuke after his slip-up provides the students critical information. However, Monosuke does not appreciate this and keeps his belief that the Monokubs should be hostile towards each other, causing Monodam to murder him during the execution.


While the brothers, in general, seem more considerate towards their only sister, Monosuke dislikes Monophanie's attempts to be nice and make peace, as he believes that as the Monokubs they should fight each other.

However, during one scene, Monosuke acts charming towards her and offers to buy her a drink.


Monosuke is sometimes annoyed by Monokid due to his noisy personality and tendency to mess up words but often tries to correct him anyway.

After Monokid died, Monosuke didn't really care much, founding the new development quite interesting and assuming that Monodam simply killed Monokid because he had bullied him. While he doesn't care about Monokid, Monosuke keeps bringing up his death as a warning for the other Kubs, and he appears afraid of suffering the same fate.


Monosuke has some general respect for Monotaro, but acknowledges that he isn't very smart nor competent as a leader.




"Y'know, for a protagonist...your reaction to us was pretty boring."
"No shit, Sherlock! I mean look at us. We're clearly his flesh-and-blood cubs." (To Kaede about Monokuma being their "Papa".)
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Despite being a robot, Monosuke appears to have a very poor eyesight without his glasses.
Monosuke's official profile description on the English website was mistranslated. The original profile didn't mention that he had no patience for Monokid's foul language, it said his language was as foul as Monokid's.
Monosuke's English voice actor, Brian Beacock, also voiced Monokuma in Danganronpa games.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Monosuke the 5th most popular Danganronpa V3 Monokuma Unit.

Monotaro (モノタロウ Monotarō) is one of the antagonists featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

He is part of a group called the Monokuma Kubs (Monokubs) and also its leader. He is the brother of Monosuke, Monokid, Monophanie and Monodam. The group assists their father, Monokuma, during the Killing School Semester and they patrol inside the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles.

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Monokubs Entrance (8)Monotaro, along with his four other siblings were created by Team Danganronpa, a group of people who created the famous reality show called Danganronpa, a series which tells the story of Killing Games. Monotaro and the Monokubs' roles are to aid Monokuma in hosting the Killing Game. The Monokubs probably have used the Exisals ever since their debut in Danganronpa to punish the students who break rules.
It is unknown when they were created and in which Killing Game they started to appear. Their notable appearance is the last Killing Game entry, the 53rd season of the show.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students ambushed by the Exisals
After the students woke up and left the classroom, the Monokubs began to drag every student to the gymnasium. After every student entered the gym, the Monokubs entered the gymnasium with their Exisals and they appeared before all the students by jumping from their Exisals, showing their robotical body that has a shape similar to a bear. Although this seems strange to the students and raises many questions, Monotaro and the others concentrate on incoherent things until at last they realize that the students did not possess the appropriate clothes to be "Ultimate Students", for which they give them new clothes. Realizing that Monophanie did not fulfill his task, the Monokubs are forced to stop the beginning of the mutual killing game and wait another time, restarting everything and returning some memories to all the students.

It was revealed that this event happened right before the 53rd Killing Game occurred, when the students' memories were about to be fabricated by Team Danganronpa.

Later when the students woke up again. The Monokubs appeared in the classroom to introduce themselves yet again to the students. However, the students do not recognize the Monokubs since they were brainwashed into their new selves. The Monokubs told the students to explore around the Academy and introduce themselves to the other Ultimate students.

Monokuma's 
After the students finished introducing themselves to each other, Monotaro and the Monokubs made an announcement to meet later in the gym again to tell them about the Killing School Semester, Monotaro and his siblings work alongside their father, Monokuma, to control the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles' killing game. After the students arrived to the gymnasium yet again, the Monokubs appear in their Exisals, this is what caused to the students to be panic. However, Rantaro Amami went to confront the Monokubs to ask them what they exactly want with them. The Monokubs ready to announce, the Monokubs ended up getting into a fight with Monotaro and the rest with their Exisals. However, Monokuma was heard from the backstage trying to calm down his "cute cubs". This is what caused Monotaro and the Monokubs to leave the Exisals and greet his father with joy.

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Monokubs laughing at the students
When Monokuma made his debut, he introduced himself to the students as the Headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles with the Monokubs very happy to see their father again. Monokuma compliments his "cute cubs" because of his handsome look. However Monotaro and the Monokubs made Monokuma angry and punched his students due to them getting on his nerve. Afterwards, the Monokubs explained the rules of their new lives in the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles Killing Game to the students. When Monokuma officially started the killing game, the Monokubs laughed to the students as the game had officially began.

Hosting the Killing School 
After Monokuma and the Monokubs officially started the Killing game, the students went in search of an exit, the students ended up finding the Death Road of Despair, however the students failed to escape, which made Monotaro to appear with his siblings to mock them about their hopes of getting out of the Academy.

Monotaro along with his siblings were shown in the monitors of the Academy to announce the day time and nighttime and other events about the killing game.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Monokuma accidentally being destroyed by an Exisal (2)
The next morning, Kaito Momota was about to attack Monokuma, this caused the Monokubs to appear to punish him, that was until Monotaro accidentally squished Monokuma with his Exisal, which resulting in his explosion. Monotaro was the first one who began to cry for his father, later followed by his siblings, thinking he is truly gone. The Monokubs then took the place of the Headmasters of the Ultimate Academy for his father. The Monokubs then left to commemorate their father's demise.

Later the next day, Monokuma reappeared and made the Monokubs happy to see that their father is still alive. Monotaro was seen with the rest of the Monokubs announcing to the students nighttime from the back, with his sibling Monokid eating honey as he gets drunk.

Before the deadline of the motive from Monokuma, Monotaro along with his siblings were preparing a special meal from the menu for Korekiyo Shinguji, the name of the dish was "Pasta that tastes like a lonely old lady eating her grandkid's birthday cake ".

First Investigation and Class 
After the deadline, Monotaro appeared once again along with the other Monokubs when Rantaro Amami was found dead. He and the other Monokubs grabbed the cameras found in the crime scene in order to help the students investigate the crime scene with more details.

Later Monotaro and the other Monokubs announced to the students to head to the warehouse as they already finished printing the photos. After Kaede and Shuichi arrived, the Monokubs showed up and gave to the students the printed pictures found at the crime scene.

Danganronpa V3 CG - The students trying to protect Kaede Akamatsu from her execution (1)
Monotaro and the others appear again during the first Class Trial, in which when Kaede Akamatsu is voted as the culprit, some of her friends try to stop her from being executed, but nevertheless, the Monokubs threaten them with their Exisals so that they couldn't intervene with Kaede's execution.

During her execution, Monotaro along with the other Monokubs helped Monokuma to orchestrate the execution by pulling the rope tied to Kaede's neck until she died from Asphyxia. At the end of the execution, Monodam killed Monokid by pushing him inside the slam-shutting piano's cover spikes.

Monotaro, Monophanie, and Monosuke are all shocked and confused as to why Monokid was executed as well where-as Monokuma simply brushes it off and stated that he at least has four more kids. After Monokuma left, the remaining Monokubs questioned Monodam, but he simply states that it was "For their own good" before leaving as well.

Monotaro and Monophanie were both still bewildered, but Monosuke didn't think much of it and simply states that Monodam killed Monokid because he was bullying him. After this, the remaining Monokuma Kubs left the Class Trial room as well.

Presenting the new 
Danganronpa V3 CG - Monokubs's Prizes (Chapter 2)
The next morning, Monokuma decided to give to the students prizes due to them surviving the Class Trial as their new rewards. Monotaro and the Monokubs appear in the cafeteria quiet due to them having a bad time yesterday due to Monokid dying. However, Monokuma notes that they were being way to quiet, however he does not care due to his cuteness. Monodam claimed that they were just getting along as the rest of the Monokubs agree with him. Monotaro and the other Monokubs get straight into the point and present to the students who survived the Class Trial the prizes. The Monokubs claim that they are nonsensical prizes and don’t even know what they are for. After Monokuma left, the Monokubs stayed behind. Monosuke started a fight with Monodam due to him killing Monokid, however, Monotaro and Monophanie calmed them down having no reason to fight.

During the students’ investigation, the students came across the Pool which the students found dangerous. The Monokubs appear and tell the students that it was just an ordinary pool that the students could use to have fun. They also explain the rules of the pool in which Monophanie comments that its prohibited to swim at nighttime which leaded Monotaro to add a new school regulation to the Monopad.

Motive 
During the night, the Monokubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept in the dorm rooms. The Monokubs unaware of them giving out the Kubs Pad at random. The next morning, the Monokubs announce to the students the present they left in their dorms during the nighttime.

Age of the 
With Kirumi Tojo being executed, Monosuke also ended up being murdered by Monodam due to him being very mean to Monodam during Chapter 2, which made Monotaro and Monophanie shocked and scared of Monodam.

Monodam turns against Monokuma, accusing him of treating his children like slaves. Since the Monokubs have Exisals on their side, Monokuma is forced to surrender. Monokuma seems to be happy about the Monokubs. He then decides to take a vacation and leave the Academy to his children and have a part-timer take his place temporairly. Monotaro once again appears in the computer room along with Monophanie and Monodam where they presented to Shuichi the new computer that could create a completely "new world" with this technology. The Monokubs also gave Shuichi a Flashback Light with a new memory.

Monotaro and the other Monokubs appeared in the cafeteria with the students to give them a Flashback Light to prepare their no plan. However, Angie grabbed the Flashback Light and destroyed it right in front of the Monokubs. The Monokubs were shocked because their plan failed since Angie net far to break a Flashback Light. Monotaro began to question Monodam about the situation, but doesn't have anything to say and left the cafeteria. All confused, Monotaro didn't know what to do and left as well along with Monophanie.

Monotaro and Monophanie giving the motive
Due to the previous Flashback motive falling, Monodam prepared another motive for the Monokubs Monotaro and Monophanie presented a new Motive to the students after Monokuma went on his vacation from the Ultimate Academy. Where they told the students that they could resurrect one of their dead classmates as a "transfer student" and participate in the Killing School Semester once again.

Monotaro later appeared when Angie's body was found in her Research Lab. There, Monotaro and the other Monokubs gave to the students the Monokuma File. Later during the investigation when Tenko's body was found the Monokubs where shocked to see two murders during the investigation for the Class Trial. Since the Monokubs didn't know what to do in that situation, they called their father for help. After their father, Monokuma appeared he began to lick them for their cuteness. Monokuma explained how this situation worked and later left the crime scene leaving the

After the investigation, all of the three Monokubs were present on the Class trial with their father. During the end of Chapter 3, Monotaro and Monophanie assisted his father, Monokuma to execute Korekiyo Shinguji. During the execution, Monodam committed suicide by rushing past Monotaro and Monophanie and into the flame that was boiling Korekiyo alive, causing it to burn even more.

Monotaro's 
Monotaro began to forget a lot of things during chapter 3 and was confused about a lot of his identity and other things, even forgetting who Monodam is.

Monotaro had a major memory loss where he became more and more confused about his identity. He came to believe that he was the drunken husband on Monophanie and thinking that Miu Iruma and K1-B0 were his parents, a role that Miu happily took up while K1-B0 didn't. Monotaro then began to act romantic towards Monophanie, saying he had never thought of her that way before. However, the next morning, Monotaro is seen acting completely different, kicking crying Monophanie and demanding her to give him money like an abusive husband, seemingly due to his memory issues. Because of this, Monophanie hides, causing Monotaro to panic since he can't remember anything. However, Monophanie feels bad for him and later takes him back, and he apologizes as the two of them cry. The announcement then ends with "the end", as if it were all theater.

The remaining Monokubs later appear when Miu was found dead. Monotaro was very upset to see her adoptive "mother" was murdered, Monotaro ended up assisting the students in solving the murder to avenge his dead mother by hacking into the Neo World Program via the main computer inside the Computer Room in order to give Shuichi Saihara and the other students important pieces of evidence for the fourth trial.

Monotaro's 
In Chapter 4's trial, Monophanie began to have stomach pains. Monotaro thought they were going to have a baby. Monotaro and Monophanie were involved in Gonta Gokuhara's execution. Monophanie was unknowingly carrying a robotic growing wasp inside her belly, and later she was killed after she gave "birth" to the insect when it exploded through her stomach and then proceeded to slice Monotaro in half. This was all a ploy by Monokuma as the cubs were boring him and that "Bad things always happen to children whose parents don’t care about them."

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 4 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 4 Execution

That same night, Monokuma started to mourn for his "Cute Monokubs" on their funeral. However, Monokuma started to question himself why did they even exist.

Finding the 
Monotaro was mentioned when Monokuma first showed the students where the Monokubs store the Exisals Units. Since Monotaro and his other siblings were dead, Monokuma gave to the students this room since no one can use the Exisals but the Monokubs. That same night, Monokuma started to mourn for his "Cute Monokubs" on their funeral. However, Monokuma started to question himself why did they even exist.

The Monokubs' 
The Monokubs reapear
After finding out the truth culprit in Kokichi Oma’s Class Trial, Kaito Momota, Maki was ready to fight Monokuma to stop him from executing Kaito. However, Monokuma reveals that Monotaro and his brother were rebuilt to protect Monokuma with their Exisals from the students. Monokuma stated that the factory that built the Monokubs were still in function and brought the latest models of them. Monotaro and the other Monokubs don't know what has happened around in the killing game and are confused in a way.

The Ultimate 
Monokuma and his Kubs trying to stop K1-B0
After the Class Trial K1-B0 began a war with Monokuma by destroying the Ultimate Academy. This is what caused Monokuma to appear angry at K1-B0 and summoned the Monokubs ridding the Exisals with him. The Monokubs threaten to destroy K1-B0 for damaging the school and ending the Killing Game. K1-B0 reassures everyone to find the truth while he engages the Monokubs in combat, fighting them the entire time everyone else is investigation the real truth about the Killing Game. While all the Monokubs where inside the Academy with The Exisals searching for the students, Monotaro was the Monokub in charge of fighting K1-B0 as he both of them were seen fighting outside of the Academy.

An Exisal finding Shuichi Saihara in the library
During the investigation of the students to uncover the truth of the Academy, Monotaro showed up in the library with his Exisal and attempted to stop their investigation, but K1-B0 immediately rushed to his friends’ rescue, knocking the Exisal to the side and binding it in the rubble to keep it from moving for a while. When Shuichi, Himiko, Tsumugi and Maki left the hidden door, they encountered K1-B0 and Monotaro with his Exisal. During the fight between does two, they caused Himiko to be trapped in the hidden door.

Shuichi Saihara in the midst of K1-B0 and the Exisals's fight
After finding the entire truth, Shuichi headed out to the courtyard to stop K1-B0's and Monokuma's fighting, telling both groups that they were going to hold a Class Trial. Monokuma agreed to Shuichi's terms but only on the condition that they would be responsible for this Class Trial if it ended up being disappointing. K1-B0 however, was told by Monokuma that he had to take off his armaments before being allowed into the trial grounds. While K1-B0 was reluctant to do so, Shuichi reassured him that he was indeed trying to end the Killing Game. Hearing this, K1-B0 headed to his lab with the Monokubs to remove his equipment while also having his antenna fixed, allowing him to hear his inner voice once again.

Final Class 
Danganronpa V3 Class Trial Argue - Monokuma Kubs (1)
Monotaro and his siblings were once again present in the final Class Trial. However, Monokuma manipulated the Monokubs to participate as they were necessary to, if they didn't they will get destroyed one by one before everyone dies at the end. The Monokubs are much more invested in the discussion this time than how he was in any prior trial, actively trying to refute evidence that the survivors presented. Monotaro without knowing much didn’t have much to say and begged the students to help him and let him win to survive. While the other Monokubs were already getting destroyed, Monotaro and Monophanie were the only Monokubs left in the courtroom. Monotaro was the last one along with Monophanie to explode among the other Monokubs.

Creation and 
Monotaro was the first Monokub who was introduced during the development and the second character whose name was revealed of the Danganronpa V3 cast. He was revealed to be the leader of the Children of Monokuma, the Monokubs (Monokumāzu in the original Japanese).


Monotaro's name is based on Momotarō (桃太郎 lit. Clam Peach Boy), the hero of a popular Japanese folktale. Much like Momotaro, Monotaro is the leader of his own group. The Japanese name Tarō literally means "eldest son". Fittingly, Monotaro is the leader of the siblings.

Alternate 
He also appears in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) along with his brothers. He first appeared when Yasuhiro Hagakure's body was found. He later appeared in the Class Trial along with his father and brothers. In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Monotaro and his siblings are headmasters of a Hope's Peak Academy like school.


Danganronpa V3 Monotaro Sprite (1)
Monotaro's appearance is similar to that of his father, Monokuma, but the part that is black on Monokuma is red on him. Likewise, his left eye is black, contrasting Monokuma's. Occasionally, a small red glow appears on the eye. He also has bright pink cheeks.

He also possesses a long gray scarf with a silver star pinned to it and a yellow pacifier.

He owns multiple throwing stars of different shapes.



Monotaro is the leader figure of the Monokubs, a group of child-like robots. As a leader, he tries to unite the group members' discordant voices into one. However, being a scatterbrain, he gets sidetracked a lot and often struggles to keep his rambunctious siblings focused on the task at hand. He is also mentioned to have a clumsy side, giving him a childlike charm and he often acts the most child-like and "pure" out of the siblings. Despite not being a very competent leader nor the smartest, his siblings consider him a reliable figure.

Compared to Monokid and Monosuke, Monotaro is relatively mild-mannered and less openly hostile towards the students, though like all the Kubs he calls the students "you bastards" seemingly as an attempt to imitate his father. He also seems considerate of Monophanie and overall appreciates all the members of the group. Nevertheless, he is evil, just like all the siblings. He occasionally bullies his siblings and fights with them, just like all the Monokubs do. When his father supposedly died, he grieved and cried, but also disturbingly suggested that they should cook his remains. However, when his siblings get executed, he does get quite shocked and occasionally even pukes just like Monophanie.

While Monotaro has always been a bit forgetful, his memory issues become notable in Chapter 3 and turn even worse in Chapter 4. He forgets who Monophanie is and forgets even who he is, being unable to do his usual job without Monophanie's guidance. He is often confused about where he is and what is happening. Because of this, he makes amusing assumptions, like K1-B0 and Miu being his parents. He also begins to think that Monophanie is his wife and acts very romantic towards her. However, because of his memory issues, he is also seen to act abusive and aggressive towards her.

After Miu was murdered, Monotaro mourned her death deeply and even became an ally for the other students in order to avenge her death. After he regained his memories thanks to Monophanie, he once again turned evil and remembered he was on his father's side, which made some of the students sad because they had begun to consider him their friend.

Monotaro seems to become much more aggressive after he is revived as he is the one leading the fight against K1-B0 to prevent the destruction the Academy. He mentions that he must destroy rule breakers, because they make his father angry and he does not like it when he is angry, indicating that he is motivated by his fear of Monokuma. When his father threatens to blow him up if he and his siblings don't make good arguments, Monotaro and Monophanie eventually end up as the last ones left and they are scared and cry, not knowing what else to do, and beg Shuichi to let them win and live. Nevertheless, they both end up destroyed.


Controlling the 
Monotaro, along with the other Monokubs, are the only ones who can control the Exisals.

Monotaro can control the Exisals to manipulate the students since the Exisals carry dangerous weapons such as a saw and a gun. He also uses the Exisals to punish any students who break the school's rules.

In Chapter 3, Monotaro and the other remaining siblings were able to force Monokuma to surrender the power to control the Academy, as Monokuma can't stop them if they are using the Exisals.

One of the reasons he was broke back was especially because of him and his siblings being the only ones with the ability to control the Exisals. Monotaro's ability of use the Exisals was demonstrated more clearly in Chapter 6 when he and K1-B0 were having an intense fight.

Hacking 
In Chapter 4, Monotaro forgets that he is bad with computers and becomes very skilled at hacking. He is able to examine the Neo World Program and finds important pieces of evidence for the Fourth Trial.

Fixing and rebuilding 
Monotaro and his siblings seem to be able to repair machines as they are the ones who fix K1-B0's antenna and they are also able to remove gear and heavy weapons from his body.


Family:

Monokuma is the self-proclaimed father of Monotaro, Monokid, Monosuke, Monodam and Monophanie.

He calls them his "adorable children" and seems even disturbingly attracted to them because they look like him and he loves his own looks. He is mostly annoyed with and neglectful towards the Kubs, physically abusing them whenever they annoy him, and even stating that he tolerates them only because they're so cute.

In general, Monotaro admires Monokuma and tends to call him "father". After Monophanie, he loves their father the most, though even he isn't very fond of Monokuma's licks and is afraid of Monokuma's anger. When Monokuma was assumed dead, Monotaro grieved and cried, but he also disturbingly suggested that the Kubs should cook his remains. He is shocked to find out that Monokuma still exists and has many copies of himself.

In Chapter 3, Monotaro turns against his father because Monodam forced him to work with him. However, when the Kubs need his help later, Monotaro cries and begs for Monokuma to come back to them, telling him that he loves him with all his heart. Monokuma then returns, making Monotaro and Monophanie very happy.

In Chapter 4, Monokuma decides to kill both Monotaro and Monophanie during Gonta's execution, giving a petty excuse that they had been ignoring him.

Monokuma 
Monotaro is the leader of the Monokuma Kubs despite being the most foolish and infantile of all the siblings. Monotaro maintains his character as the leader and appreciates all the members of the group. When his siblings slowly got killed in the Class Trial's executions, he initially expressed his shock and sadness over their deaths, but he would later forgot about their existence.


Monotaro seems to respect his sister more than any of the other Monokuma Kubs and seems the most caring towards her. Monophanie also seems to like Monotaro the most, as he's the responsible type. Nevertheless, they do bully each other and fight occasionally in the typical Monokub fashion, and Monotaro claims he mocks Monophanie whenever she isn't looking.

During Chapter 3, Monotaro and Monophanie are usually seen fighting with each other and verbally talking to each other. However, they tone it down and claim they're just "getting along" in order to avoid Monodam's punishment.

In Chapter 4, Monotaro's memory turned even worse than before and even forgot his own identity as well as who Monophanie and Monokuma was. Monophanie usually beated up Monotaro with a frying pan in order to make Monotaro remember who he was. He then began to act romantic towards Monophanie, saying he had never thought of her that way before. Though Monophanie tried to remind him they are family, she didn't really care and they then began a strong romance. However, the next morning, Monotaro is seen acting completely different, kicking crying Monophanie and demanding her to give him money like an abusive husband, seemingly due to his memory issues. Because of this, Monophanie hides, causing Monotaro to panic since he can't remember anything. However, Monophanie feels bad for him and later takes him back, and he apologizes as the two of them cry. The announcement then ends with "the end", as if it were all theater.

Monophanie also usually complained to Monotaro, due to him being on the side of the students due to his memories. Later, when Miu's corpse was found, Monophanie tried to cheer up his crying "husband". However, the two argue again, as Monotaro is convinced Miu was his mother and wishes to help the students in order to avenge her. Monophanie jealous, runs away crying because Monotaro doesn't love him anymore. Monophanie seems to be jealous of the students because they took away Monotaro from him. In the start of the fourth Trial Monophanie was able to get his memories back and was very happy. Due to Monophanie being pregnant, Monotaro and Monophanie started to act more like a "father figure" for the "baby". Later, right before Gonta's execution, Monophanie begins to feel pain in her stomach and the two assume that she's having a baby. However, this turns out to be part of the execution, as a giant insect bursts out of Monophanie like in a horror movie and kills both of the Monokubs.


Monotaro seems to like Monodam more than his other male sibilings. However, he is upset and surprised that Monodam refuses to speak even to him, seemingly not considering him a close friend.

When Monodam killed Monokid and Monosuke during the executions, Monotaro was shocked that he killed his own siblings. Later, Monodam forcefully takes Monokuma's place and forces Monotaro and Monophanie into submission, threatening them with violence if they refuse while claiming it's all for the sake of them getting along. Because of this, the two other Kubs are afraid of Monodam. However, Monotaro later speaks back to Monodam, telling him that he doesn't understand "the power of love" because he has never been loved when they try to get their father back.

Monotaro is later seen ignoring Monodam multiple times, though this is possibly due to his memory issues. Due to his memory problems, Monotaro immediately forgets who Monodam was after he died.


Monokid seems to have some respect for Monotaro, finding him smart and dependable. However, due to his short temper, he can easily turn hostile towards him.


Monosuke has some general respect for Monotaro, but acknowledges that he isn't very smart nor competent as a leader.

When Monosuke was blown up by Monokuma, Monotaro was shocked and even cried for him.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Miu 
During Chapter 4, Monotaro suffered from severe memory issues and believed that Miu was his mother. Miu really liked the idea of being a "mommy" and accepted him right away, while K1-B0 strongly denied that he's Monotaro's father. Monotaro seemed to love his adoptive mother and supported her more than anyone else. When she died, Monotaro cried for her and helped the students to catch the culprit by accessing the Neo World Program's data in the Computer Room.

When Monotaro regained his memories, he was no longer on Miu's side, but still cared for her and called her his mother.

K1-B0
At first, when they meet, K1-B0 saw Monotaro as someone like him being a rare Artificial intelligence. However, he was offended if he was directly compared to such "toys".

During Chapter 4, Monotaro suffered from severe memory issues, forgetting who his real father is and assuming that K1-B0 was his father, which he strongly denied. This made Monotaro upset, which caused Himiko to blame K1-B0 for mean behavior and told him he should at least play along for now. K1-B0 answered that he cannot play along since Monotaro isn't even his child. Monotaro then believed that Miu is his mother and she accepted him right away.

When Monotaro and Monophanie died, K1-B0 was shocked and even blamed Monokuma for letting his children die in the execution.

In Chapter 6, Monotaro and his siblings were ordered by his father, Monokuma to destroy K1-B0 from destroying the academy. Monotaro was in charge of fighting him as the other Monokubs wondered inside the Academy to search the students. Both of them are seen to have an intense fight during the investigation of the other survivors. When outside, both of them were having an all-out fight with guns. While in the library, they also fought with fists and their high tech guns.

Himiko 
Himiko could note that he was being bullied as Monotaro was acting weird to the students after Monokid died.

In Chapter 4, when Monotaro suffered from severe memory issues, he somehow became friends with the remaining students as he was helpful to them and considered him a very nice person. When Monotaro believed K1-B0 was his father and the robot declined, Himiko accused K1-B0 of mean behavior and told him he should at least play along for now.


DRV3
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)


"We're the Monokubs! Nice to meet'cha!"
Class Trial:

"Cuz S-T-F-U, that's why! [...] It means it'll "Stir The Fun Up!" Get it?" (Shutting up Kaede Akamatsu)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Character Trailer:

"Bears do not lie!"
"Have fun!"
Prologue:

"You wanna go, Jabroni!?" (to Monokid)
"Wait! We can't kill them with the Exisals. According to the schedule, the Exisals aren't supposed to show up till later!"
"He only talks to close friends. The years of abuse have really done a number on his heart. Isn't that right, Monodam?"
"Even if she's faking, she looks peacful. Let's whisper so we don't wake her up."
"The first thing we need you guys to do is remember your true selves."
"That's so mean...You humans are the real monsters for calling us monsters!"
"I'm glad I was born with these looks. I definitely won the genetic lottery."
"Yeah! Forgetting about your Ultimate talent is such a waste."
"We want you guys to keep honing your Ultimate talents, so we set up these rooms for you."
Chapter 1:

"When Father was still alive, he used to tell us cubs... ...that we must cherish life because we're like snowflakes—unique in every way."
"It's 8.a.m.! Time to wake up! Let's have a wonderful killing school semester today!"
Chapter 2:

"Only after you leave do I realize how much you really mean to me..."
"Monosuke, you better thank Monodam! Less attitude and more gratitude, got it!?"
"They burn down the forests we call home! They pollute the rivers we drink from! I'll never forgive humans!"
Chapter 3:

"It's true what they say—the serious ones are the scariest when they finally snap."
"By the way, I've been thinking...you guys should knock of all this killing and dying."
"Dying is, like, so lame! Living is all the rage these days!"
"You don't understand that cuz you've never been loved before, Monodam!"
"I wanna see you, Fatherrrr! I love you with all my heart!"
"Leaders gotta be able to take decisive action! Indecision is just the worst!"
"Dying makes you more popular!? Then we gotta die soon, too!"
Chapter 4:

"I've forgotten all about the past! Did you forget that I'm forgetful!?"
"I don't give a fart about the rules! I wanna help everyone! I wanna avenge my dead mommy!"
"This is all I can tell you guys, but I don't want any of you to forget... I'm your friend! When this Class Trial is over, I hope we can all get to know each other better! I...want a fresh start. I want to make up for my past mistakes."
"Yeah! I gotta get my act together for the baby!"
Chapter 5:

"I'm Monotaro! No matter how you read it or spell it or say it, it's still Monotaro!"
Chapter 6:

"One truth prevails!"
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Monotaro was the first member of Monokuma Kubs to be revealed during the development.
In the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Monotaro can be found inside his Exisal. He asks Shuichi if he knew that girls' panties don't have weiner flaps, and claims that Monophanie told him that. He then says that's all he got and doesn't give Shuichi any casino coins unlike his siblings. He is later seen on guard, claiming there is no going past him, and that as the red Monokub he is a main character and thus doesn't tell lies. He then wonders why do people call them "bright red lies", and wonders if lies are red and if that makes him a liar.
Monotaro's English voice actor Sean Chiplock is also the voice of Kiyotaka Ishimaru in the English version of Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Monotaro the 2nd most popular Danganronpa V3 Monokuma Unit.

Angie Yonaga (夜長 アンジー Yonaga Anjī) is a student in Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles and a participant of the Killing School Semester featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Angie has the title Ultimate Artist (超高校級の「美術部」Chō kōkō-kyū no "bijutsu-bu" lit. Super High School Level Art Club Member). She claims that her art is work of Atua, ("God of the Island" in the Japanese version) rather than her own.

Angie Yonaga was a normal talentless high school girl who participated in the 53rd Season of Danganronpa, a famous worldwide reality show made by Team Danganronpa.

She used to attend All Kinds of Stuff High School (ナンデモカンデモ高校). However, it is unclear if this memory of her is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it was genuine.

Fabricated Past
After she successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Angie's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

Angie originates from an island in the center of the ocean where people worship Atua, the god of the island. The island is described as a paradise. It used to be large, but natural disasters made it smaller. It is overflowing with nature, though some plants are known to attack people, as a result, they are unsure if they even are plants. The locals also have lots of unusual customs, some of them quite unsettling. Notably, they give non-fatal blood sacrifices for their god using human blood, with a sacrifice truck coming around on Mondays and Wednesdays. The locals also use a mail order website called DeepSea to order things like her favorite magazines, food, clothes, medicine, organ meat, blood, and even children. Apparently, this website has improved the everyday lives of the island inhabitants significantly.

While living on the island, Angie was for some reason convinced that she was an oracle receiving divine messages from the Atua, the god of the island. She began to control the whole island this way, using Atua's word to make other people do things for her since it was strongly forbidden to go against Atua's word. However, it's heavily implied that most of it was simply Angie's own wishes, but she was unable to tell the difference and assumed they were orders from God. It's implied that she suffered from loneliness, and sometimes ordered people to have big festivals.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Angie and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Angie was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to be a participant, Angie and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Angie chose to forget about her Ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Angie and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Angie and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, the true Mastermind, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, was actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

While Angie did remember about the Ultimate Hunt in Chapter 2 and hers and everyone else's funeral in Chapter 3 thanks to the Flashback Light's, Angie ultimately has no complete recollection of the event, as she was murdered before she actually received a complete memory of The Gofer Project by the Flashback Light in Chapter 5.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Angie was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Angie was confused and frightened about their current predicament. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived and revealed themselves from within their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light. Angie and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. She also received the talent and title of Ultimate Artist. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Angie and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd Killing Game season known as the Killing School Semester. Students of Fabrication
Angie was later found around the Altar of Judgement by Kaede and Shuichi and introduced herself cheerfully to the duo. She told her about the god of her island, Atua, and how all art she creates is an offering to her god. When Angie stated that a truck would come every Monday and Wednesday morning to collect "offerings", Kaede commented that that sounded very similar to taking out the trash for pickup. Kaede grew more worried when Angie said that what she meant by "offering" was just a pint or two of her blood. Kaede politely declined, so Angie asked Shuichi instead, saying that boy's blood works as an offering as well. Shuichi ran away, frightened.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester
Angie would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement. While some of the students were worried, Angie tried to reassure everyone that Atua would watch over them and keep them safe with minimal results. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs and Monokuma, the Monokuma Kubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game, much to almost everyone's shock and horror. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.

Attempting the Death Road of 
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Angie read the rules on her Monopad and was immediately curious about the sixth regulation, "The Killing Game and class trials will continue until only two surviving students remain". Shuichi replied by saying that it's most likely because you can't have a trial with only two people. A majority of the group wasn't sure what to do after reading these rules and began to panic. Thanks to Kaede's motivational argument, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Angie along with everyone else immediately followed Gonta's lead, with a hope of finding a way out, praying to Atua to give them strength.

Failed Death Road
Descending the manhole, Angie and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Angie and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi Oma, the Ultimate Supreme Leader, revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Angie included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Despite the group's failure and her own exhaustion, Angie could remain cheerful and was simply relieved that nobody was seriously injured. Afterwards, Angie went to her dorm room to rest along with everyone else.

The First and Additional 
After the first motive and additional motives are presented, the First Blood Perk and the time limit, Angie doesn't seem to be bothered by it, saying that Atua will watch over and protect everybody. She didn't do anything notable in anticipating the time limit, only praying to her heart's content because if she prays harder, she'll get a promotion to become a platinum disciple in her religion.

During the morning of the next day, Angie tried to convince Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, to believe in Atua, much to Tenko Chabashira's, the Ultimate Aikido Master's annoyance and jealousy. Himiko declined, saying that believing in Atua sounds like "too much of a pain". Tenko ecstatically said that Himiko should believe in Neo Aikido instead, but the magician stated that that was a pain as well.

On The 
On the morning of the final day of the time limit, Shuichi and Kaede, who planned to pick up the hidden cameras from Miu that they had requested from her yesterday, ran into Angie and discovered that there was a fight in the dining hall. Kaede split up from Shuichi and joined Angie in checking out the dining hall. Once there, both girls bore witness to Rantaro Amami's, the Ultimate ???'s and Ryoma Hoshi's, the Ultimate Tennis Pro's, quarrel and learned that Ryoma was willing to let himself be killed so that everyone else could survive. Kaede tried to reason with him, but Ryoma believed there was no more time left for idealism. Angie didn't do anything notable to defuse the situation, just listened as Ryoma was convinced by Rantaro to not go through with this idea, stating that he would end the Killing Game himself and warned him to not do anything unnecessary.

Gifted Students heading to the game room That evening, as the time limit was drawing closer to its end, Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, asked Angie to join his strategy meeting, believing that Atua might prove useful for fighting against Monokuma. Kaito, Angie, Himiko, Tenko, Rantaro, Gonta, and Maki Harukawa, the Ultimate Child Caregiver, headed down to the game room in the basement to conduct their strategy meeting. Not long after however, Rantaro excused himself to go to the restroom while actually going to investigate the library, knowing of the secret room thanks to his Survivor Perk Monopad. Kaito and Tenko would also leave the game room and join Kaede and Shuichi in storming the library, only to find the bookcase in the back of the room closing and Rantaro's corpse not far away from it.The remaining people in the game room rushing into the library. Tenko's scream alerted the remaining people in the game room and they came rushing in. Angie did not seem that surprised that Rantaro had been killed, simply stating that it was "unfortunate". Gonta asked her how she could remain so calm at the sight of a corpse and so much blood. As everyone pondered what was going on, the body discovery announcement played and eventually everyone was in the library.
Even during the investigation, Angie didn't seem to particularly care about searching for clues and instead, prayed for Rantaro's well-being in the afterlife. Tenko watched her the entire time, baffled as to how she could remain so cheerful during this life-threatening situation.

The First Class 
During the Class Trial, Angie, as per usual, remained her bright and cheery self throughout the entire time. She encouraged Gonta to argue when Kirumi suspected him, much to Miu's annoyance. When everyone was wondering how the culprit could have avoided being caught by the cameras, Angie deduced that the culprit was hiding in the hidden room all along and that that was what Atua had told her. Despite this, she was quickly disproven after Kaede made it apparent that the hidden door was never used because the dust that Shuichi placed in the card reader slot was still there. Though no one realized it at the time, Angie was secretly right, as the real culprit watched everything from the hidden room and killed Rantaro themselves before forging the evidence and making it seem as if Kaede's plan had succeeded and that she had killed him unintentionally.

Later on during the trial, when everyone was split on whether or not to vote Shuichi as the culprit due to his silence about the camera intervals, Angie was on the side that defended him despite her asking if he was really okay with being the culprit prior. After Shuichi was cleared of blame by Kaede and he accused her of being the culprit, wanting to carry on her wish, Angie simply listened him explain his side of the argument. Then, after Kaede's execution, Angie did the same thing she did after Rantaro died. She prayed that Atua would grant Kaede a peaceful rest. Miu asked her how anybody could rest peacefully after being killed in such a horrific way. In the end, everyone but Shuichi and Kaito left the trial grounds and returned to their dorm rooms.

Exploring The Rest Of The 
The morning of the next day, Angie along with everyone else would gather in the dining hall once again and have a normal, but forced the conversation to try and make themselves not think about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that would become unlocked would be the remaining second floor of the school, where an obvious treasure chest was waiting in the middle of the hallway next to Gonta's Research Lab. Angie noticed it first but wanted Shuichi to open it first. Once he did, they discovered an odd flashlight of sorts. Angie tried to persuade Shuichi to turn it on, but he declined, saying that if she wanted it to be turned on, she should do it herself. Angie decided to meet her halfway, take the flashlight, and inspect it herself before running off somewhere. Later on, after Shuichi finished discovering all the new locations around the school, Angie told everyone to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight. After everyone had gathered, Monokuma appeared and told everyone that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Angie included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

Danganronpa V3 - Everywhere Parasol PresentIn a bonus scene in Chapter 2, Angie joined Tenko, Himiko, Kirumi, Shuichi, and K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot, for Tenko's "celebrity-like vacation" in the pool area.
The Motive 
During that same night, the Monokuma Kubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. The next morning, Angie joined everyone in the dining hall in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. Despite Ryoma suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. Once Tenko tried to goad Himiko into enjoying a tripe hot pot, wanting to get closer to her, Angie told her that she doesn't get it and that Himiko isn't hungry. Nevertheless, everyone has tripe hot pot for breakfast

"Befriending" 
Angie Yonaga hugging Himiko Yumeno
The next morning, everyone gathered in the dining hall once again, only to notice that Angie and Himiko were both praying to Atua, much to Tenko's shock and jealousy. Angie states that Himiko had abandoned reality to speak to Atua. Tenko accused her of brainwashing Himiko, only to correct her, saying that she had undone Himiko's brainwashing. Despite this, Tenko still urged Himiko to get ahold of herself, only for Angie to instill hers and Atua's authority into Himiko further by pulling her into a hug. Angie states that she understands Himiko and that she isn't scared, just sad, that she has no one to confide her anxieties too. She reassured Himiko that she wasn't alone and that a handsome god was watching over her. With that, Himiko didn't seem scared anymore and Angie praised Atua once again.

Angie then passes on Atua's "divine message" to everyone else in the dining hall, saying that the academy suffers from the same sins as the outside world and that the only reason everyone is unhappy is because their greed is making them treat each other like adversaries. She proposes that everyone cast aside their greed and live within the academy in a peaceful harmony with divine purpose, turning the academy into "heaven on earth". She states that if they do this, their desire to leave will vanish, and in turn, the killings will also cease. This proposal baffled nearly everyone but Himiko, who stated that Atua's divine messages are never wrong. With Angie's advice, her and Himiko decide to hold a magic show the next morning in order to get everyone to forget about their desire to leave before leaving the dining hall in order to begin the preparations.

Gonta's Insect Meet and 
Everyone during the insect meet and greet
Angie and Himiko remained in the gym throughout the entire day preparing for their magic show with some help from the others, like Kaito. Angie also asked Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, to sew the curtains for their show, completely unaware that Kirumi had ulterior motives while she prepared in the gym. Unbeknownst to them, Gonta, thanks to Kokichi's lies, believed that everyone hated bugs and began kidnapping various students into his research lab in order to get them to like bugs. In reality, Kokichi simply wanted to get everyone to watch their motive videos in order make the Killing Game "more interesting. Angie and Himiko were standing watch just outside the gym when Gonta found them and brought them to his lab, being the last two he had brought after Shuichi, Tenko, K1-B0, Tsumugi Shirogane, the Ultimate Cosplayer, Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist were detained. Not long after they were brought there, the Insect Meet and Greet began and everyone panicked as insects began to buzz about and wreck havoc. In order to finally end this absurdity, K1-B0 used his recording function in order to convince Gonta that Kokichi had tricked him, much to his anger. With that, Angie and everyone else barring Gonta and Kokichi took back their motive videos before immediately leaving Gonta's lab, then heading to bed.

The Amazing Himiko's Magic 
Water tank trick The very next morning, Angie and Himiko began their magic show, with everyone from Gonta's Insect Meet and Great attending, bar Kokichi. Angie thanked Atua for being with them today, much to Tenko's chagrin, who stated that she should be thanking them first for even showing up. Ignoring Tenko's comment, Angie explained the details of Himiko's trick before the Ultimate Magician jumped into the tank, having only a single minute to escape the water tank before the tank would fill with piranha's. Angie closed the curtains, but everyone grew increasingly worried as the timer continued to count down and Himiko had yet to come out. Gonta couldn't take it anymore and stormed the stage, wanting to save Himiko before the piranhas would fill the tank, much to Angie's disappointment. Once the timer ran out, the piranha's dropped into the tank along with some other large object, though Himiko had yet to come out of the tank. Tenko begged Angie to open the curtains, a plea that she promptly responded to by revealing the tank, however, no one was prepared for what they were about to see. Ryoma's lifeless, handcuffed body drifted within the tank, only have a couple seconds before the piranha's stripped the flesh from his bone, leaving nothing more than a skeleton, the handcuff's, and his belongings behind. With that, the second investigation had begun. Gonta concern
During the investigation, Shuichi asked Angie if she had any idea how Himiko's trick worked, wanting to understand just how Ryoma could have been killed. Angie wasn't able to help Shuichi in this regard but did claim that she thought that there were more piranha's in the overhanging tank than there was last night. In reality, there weren't actually more piranha's, they were just crammed together thanks to the glass pane that divided the fish from Ryoma's lifeless body.

The Second Class 
As the class trial began, Angie was quick to suspect Himiko despite how close they had supposedly become. This outraged Tenko greatly, stating that if they were really friends that Angie should believe in Himiko. Angie countered this and stated that she's simply telling them what Atua is telling her and that they should be thankful lest he pours his holy wrath upon them all. Despite Himiko's commitment to her magic act, she has eventually cleared of suspicion thanks to Shuichi's efforts.

Later, when everyone was wondering just when Ryoma could have been killed after hearing Maki's testimony, Angie was on the side saying that he was killed during nighttime. As the trial progressed, Shuichi was able to pin Kirumi as the culprit of Ryoma's murder. Angie didn't seem as if she cared at all despite not even hearing her testimony. After all the evidence was pinned on Kirumi and she admitted to her crime, Angie asked her if her devotion to the group was simply her trying to manipulate them all so that she could get away with murder. Kirumi wasn't sure how to respond to everyone asking her why she killed Ryoma, and so the Monokuma Kubs showed everyone her motive video, revealing that she was the de facto prime minister of all Japan and that her most important person was every citizen of the country. Kirumi refused to give up on life and made a mad, undignified run for it, but was executed nonetheless. While everyone was shocked by her awful death, Angie didn't seem to care. She viewed Kirumi as a traitor to the group for letting her greed overcome her and as a result, began to plan for ways to unify the group further, Himiko only being the first one she would influence.

Angie's Research 
The next morning, at Kokichi's request after unveiling Maki's true talent the night prior, Angie along with everyone else barring Maki paid a visit to the "Ultimate Child Caregiver's Research Lab" only to discover various weapons all throughout the lab, proving that Maki was, in fact, the Ultimate Assassin, not a child caregiver. As everyone pondered what to do, Angie stated that she would work with everyone in order to uphold the peace, with Himiko still supporting her. After the Monokuma Kubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy, Angie became excited at the thought of having more places to enrich their lives.

One of the places that became unlocked was the eerie fourth floor, which just so happened to contain Angie's Research Lab. When Shuichi and Kokichi attempted to open it, they found that it was locked. The Ultimate Supreme Leader was about to pick the lock before Angie, who was already in her lab, unlocked it from the inside and greeted them. Angie happily invited the duo in, her lab contained various art and carving tools, including large lumps of wax that Angie would make use of later. As Shuichi pondered why Angie's lab would have a lock, the Monokuma Kubs showed up and explained that Angie is the kind of girl who can't focus on her artwork unless she was alone, a claim that the Ultimate Artist promptly acknowledged. The Monokuma Kubs knowing so much about Angie made her a bit suspicious, as all the tools in the lab were even her favorites. She asked the Kubs how they knew so much about her, to which Monodam responded by saying that they knew everything about them because they wanted to be their friends, much to the students' skepticism. As the Monokuma Kubs prepared to hand Angie the key to her lab, Monodam took it and swallowed it, claiming that it could assist in a murder. Because of this, Angie's lab could no longer be locked from the outside, though she didn't seem to particularly mind as she would only ever need to lock it when she was inside anyway.

Later on, Angie would gather with everyone else in the dining hall in order to inspect the new Flashback Light that Shuichi found. Upon using it, everyone remembered what seemed to be their own funeral, much to the student's confusion. Kaito reassured everyone that there's no way the funeral could be real considering they were all still here and alive. His small speech seemed to work, as everyone perked back up, enjoyed a small meal, then headed back to their dorms.

Angie's Student 
Angie hugging Gonta
Angie gathered with everyone in the gymnasium the very next morning at the Monokuma Kubs request. The participants were presented with the third motive, the Necronomicon, and were told that they would be able to bring back someone who had died already as a transfer student. This motive baffled the students, saying that there's no way the dead could come back to life. However, Angie seemed to embrace the motive, saying the "corpses" so far may have just been very accurate imitations to make the real people seem dead. Some of the students argued that there's no way that's possible, but Gonta said that more letters were added to the rock in the courtyard, deducing that perhaps the four people who had died are actually alive and wrote that message. Angie praised Gonta and, like Himiko before him, pulled him into a hug. She instilled hers and Atua's authority into him by reassuring him that he's not alone and that Atua is like a gentle grandmother that always keeps him safe, effectively playing off of Gonta's desire for a motherly figure.

Angie then said that Gonta should join the student council, wanting to make Gonta feel needed. Tsumugi, and Himiko both requited this feeling. As a result, the Ultimate Entomologist did not hesitate for even a second if it meant he could be useful to everyone and joined Angie's group. Shuichi however, was confused as to what Angie meant by "student council", but K1-B0 replied by saying that Angie summoned himself, Himiko, Tenko, and Tsumugi last night in order to discuss how to eradicate the Killing Game. As a result, this group of students ended up forming the "Ultimate Academy Student Council" with Angie as their president. The "brainwashed" members listen to Angie completely and without question, stating that her will is Atua's will and as a result, she cannot be wrong. In reality, Angie was simply trying to take control of everybody and make them dependent on Atua. Angie took the Necronomicon and told everyone else to "leave it to the student council". The Ultimate Academy Student Council reformed
In reality, Angie trying to unify the group with her student council only ended up causing discord between the student council and the non-student council members, such as during that same night when the student council ridiculed Maki for being out at nighttime. The very next morning, the two split parties came into conflict yet again after finding out that the student council had blocked off the manhole in the boiler room with a large rock. Angie even goes as far as to destroy a Flashback Light from the Monokuma Kubs, wanting to quell any desire to leave no matter the cost.

The Summoning 
Angie breaking the Flashback Light
Despite their extreme methods, Angie's student council had no malicious intent for the group as a whole, only wishing to stop another murder from happening by whatever means necessary. Despite this, it was obvious that Angie was going too far, which Tenko realized immediately. In reality, Tenko was never brainwashed by Angie but simply joined the student council in order to protect Himiko. That same night, when Maki and Shuichi met up to train, Tenko begged the duo to join her in stopping Angie from going through with the ritual. They complied and headed up to the Ultimate Artist's Research Lab, only to find that Angie had made wax effigies of the past four victims in preparations for the ritual within the Necronomicon. Shuichi, Maki, and Tenko tried to convince Angie, saying that there's no way any of them could still be alive and that no matter how hard you fake a death, it is impossible to fake a soul grasping and struggling for life. Angie seemed to comply considering the Ultimate Assassin, who specialized in murder, agreed with Shuichi on this. But this only made her think that the ritual must actually be able to bring the dead back to life. As a result, they ended up failing to convince Angie to not go through with the ritual, and the trio begrudgingly left her lab, only to run into Himiko outside. As it turns out, Angie already knew that Tenko had betrayed the student council, but seemingly didn't hold it against her.

Angie Yonaga about to be attacked by Korekiyo ShingujiHowever, Angie would never end up completing her ritual. That same night at around 2 A.M., Angie headed to one of the empty side rooms on the fourth floor to get a candle that she could burn the Necronomicon with, which would complete the ritual and seemingly "resurrect" a deceased classmate. However, out of sheer bad luck, she walked in on Korekiyo sawing the floor in one of the vacant rooms, preparing for what would, later on, be Tenko's murder. This left Korekiyo with no other choice but to knock Angie in the back of the head with the same floorboard he was sawing while she was distracted, knocking her unconscious.
He then taped over the wound to avoid any blood leaking out while he carried her from the empty room to her Research Lab, where he finished the job by plunging the golden katana from his lab into the back of her neck, finally killing her. To attempt to give himself an alibi, he attempted to create a locked room mystery after hanging all the wax effigies from the ceiling around Angie's body. However, he failed to take into account the piece of bloody tape under Angie's body, or the bloodstain on the floorboard he used to knock her out, which would, later on, become key pieces of evidence used to find him guilty of Angie's murder in the trial later on.

The next morning, Shuichi, Maki, and Tenko headed to Angie's lab to try and convince her once again. They discovered Himiko outside of her lab, claiming that Angie wouldn't come out no matter how many times she knocked on the door. This worried Shuichi greatly, but Kokichi overheard the situation and used his lock-picking skills to break into Angie's lab. Shuichi's worries are confirmed as Angie's corpse lies in the center of the four wax effigies in a pool of her own blood.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 3 Body Discovery (1)
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 3 Body Discovery (1)

Everyone gathers in Angie's research lab following the body discovery announcement. All the student council members mourn her passing, wondering just how and why she was killed. Korekiyo suggests that they perform a seance to commune with Angie's spirit, ultimately leading to Tenko's murder.

The Third Class 
Himiko was increasingly more agitated during this trial that she had been in any of the previous trials due to losing two people who considered her a friend and never being able to properly requite those feelings to them. Angie's murder had to inevitably be put to the side in order to discuss Tenko's murder, but as it turns out, her murder led to valuable clues that would help Shuichi pin Korekiyo as the culprit of both of their murders, much to the outrage of almost everyone in the trial, wondering why the Ultimate Anthropologist would murder two of their friends.

Following the trials conclusion, Korekiyo revealed himself to be a serial killer whose goal was to grant his deceased sister one-hundred female friends in the afterlife and that he was very close to that number. He claimed that every girl in the school barring Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor, and Maki had the potential to become "friends" for his sister. Himiko however, could not accept this explanation, angrily asking why Angie and Tenko had to die for something so unfair. Korekiyo replied that there is no such thing as a death that can be accepted and wondered how they all would live a life that faced death before being dragged to his execution.

Afterwards, Himiko desperately tried to keep it together, but with Kokichi's persuasion, and remembering Tenko's last words to her, finally broke down in tears, crying out that she missed both Angie and Tenko but couldn't go to where they were yet. In the end, regardless of Angie's extreme intentions, Himiko still considered her a dear friend and along with Tenko, would remain on her mind throughout the entirety of the Killing Game.

Creation and 

Angie is a common diminutive for several English names based on the word "angel" - e.g. "Angela", "Angeline", etc. Her name could be a reference to her hair color, which happens to be white. While her last name kanji 夜長 yonaga, means "a long night".

Alternate 
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Angie met Kaede Akamatsu and Makoto Naegi in the middle of the hallway, in front of the door led to the dormitory. She introduced herself as the Ultimate Artist and asked Kaede to make a blood offering for her God, Atua, which made Kaede a little bit anemic. She later participated in the Class Trial to discover the killer of Yasuhiro Hagakure.


Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Angie Yonaga
Angie has dark skin and round, blue eyes the color of the ocean. Her hair a pale platinum blonde that looks nearly white and is loosely tied into two wavy ponytails by small, thin hair bands. There are three dots surrounding her belly button, and it is very likely that they are small, silver bead piercings, but could also be a tattoo.

She wears a white, frilly bikini top, the frills a very pale blue, assumably matching bikini bottoms under the blue skirt with white frills sewn to the bottom of it and a blue bow at the waistband. On top of her skirt, she wears a pink utility belt which holds her carving tools and paintbrushes. Angie wears a yellow smock which reaches below her knees, sleeves loose and wide as they stop before her wrists. Her smock has black symbols on her shoulders, the insignia of her previous high school. Her shoes are simple white slip-ons with light grey soles.

Angie wears a white beaded bracelet on her left wrist, as well as another one on her right ankle. She also wears a white pearled necklace with a seashell in the middle of it.

In the prologue, Angie wears her school uniform consisting of a white dress shirt, a red ribbon, a dark blue sweater, a gray blazer, a matching pleated skirt, white socks, and brown loafers.

Personality 
Angie is a very spiritual person, believing that Atua, the god of her island, is always at her side. She has a pious heart and likes praying, having a very strong faith in her god, and she is very willing to help and assist other people with spiritual matters.She often searches for things to offer as blood sacrifices and somewhat creepily talks about her need for blood and asks other students to offer her some. She also has a habit of speaking on behalf of her god and strangely these words can sometimes turn out to be very truthful. As another eccentric habit, she freely uses her own original Japanese, like "Bye-yonara" or "strange miracle", which shows a little bit of her artistic side.Similar to Ibuki Mioda, she also calls everyone by their first names in the Japanese version, which is considered eccentric since Japanese acquaintances normally refer to each other with their last names instead of their first names. However, in Angie's case, this seems to be because she's not a Japan-native.

Considered the quirkiest character in the series by her voice actress Minori Suzuki,Angie is a positive, but quite a strange person who does things her own way. She is notably energetic and cheerful, almost always having an excited and wide smile, even when everyone else is serious. Due to her strong faith in Atua, she is unusually calm and unfazed, to the point of appearing unnaturally cheerful and out of touch with reality. She isn't even afraid of death as she believes that Atua would welcome her in the afterlife and for similar reasons tells the others not to worry about dying. In Chapter 2, she even mentions that Atua loves Monokuma because he loves all of his creations. She even appears to cheer excitedly when she sees other students fighting, and when she loses during the Death Road of Despair, she is heard laughing and giggling cheerfully, contrasting the despairing and pained voices of the other characters. When everyone else gives up on the escape game in low spirits, she is just glad that nobody has seriously hurt thanks to Atua. She doesn't show any fear when being surrounded by massive amounts of insects either, as she claims she is used to seeing them on her home island. Using her god's instructions as guidance behind her words and actions, she never seems to hesitate. She is also quick to tell the other students that God will punish them and all their relatives if they disagree with her on religious or other matters, smiling passively aggressively the whole time. This, along with her liking for blood sacrifices, can make her come across terrifying at times.

Being the Ultimate Artist, Angie can skillfully work with drawings, sculptures, and other things, but she is known to say that her god is the one who is really creating everything and she is simply lending her body, describing the experience as if she's being "possessed by her muse"."She demands to be alone whenever she makes her art, but it's said that she indeed does appear as if she's possessed whenever she does. It's been implied that her artwork can strongly affect other people's will and mind, to the point of resembling brainwashing.

Interestingly, Angie seems to be a logical person when it comes to murder. Even though she formed a bond with Himiko in Chapter 2, she immediately accused her of being Ryoma Hoshi's killer when there was evidence that showed Himiko was capable of being the killer. Angie stated that she needed to do so because she didn't want her classmates to die due to choosing the wrong culprit. In similar situations, she is seen eagerly accusing suspicious students without mercy, and she cheerfully encourages them to use counter-arguments. This character trait of her contrasts with Tenko Chabashira, who always believed in and protected Himiko until the end.

Her very notable trait is the way she always puts herself before others. While she can mean well and fully believes in her religion, she can use it to manipulate others to do things for her, claiming it's what God wants and people get punished if they don't obey. She is used to getting what she wants this way back on her island and thus dislikes it when people do not listen to her. She sometimes tries to convert others to her religion, though she seems to give up if she notices it won't have any effect and only seems to act passive aggressive at most. However, she is an extremely skilled manipulator and is somehow able to deduce other people's weaknesses and exactly the kind of support each person needs. She then offers Atua to them, as she believes that he is the only true God there is and that his form changes according to the feelings of whoever sees him, which in her opinion explains the multiple Gods people around the world believe in. For example, for Gonta it would be a "gentle grandma", for Himiko a "handsome guy", and during the bonus mode she even offers Atua to Mondo Owada, in the form of "a macho, reliable older brother". Whenever others accuse her of brainwashing, she claims that on the contrary, she undoes the brainwashing of others by making them believe.

It should be noted that while she is very manipulative and selfish, Angie does not appear to be intentionally malicious, and she often genuinely wants to encourage and guide others through her words. She plans to make the academy environment "heaven on earth" so that people wouldn't have the will to escape and start the Killing Game. After finding out that Tenko betrayed her, she doesn't really mind and immediately forgives her, and simply encourages her to be better in the future. In her Free Time Events, it's confirmed that she is convinced she is an oracle who receives divine messages. Because of this, she has difficulties differentiating god's intentions from her own, which explains parts of her behavior. According to Shuichi's assumptions, her problem might be that she gets lonely very easily and is convinced that other people and god will do anything for her. After Shuichi gets angry with her during their Free Time Events, Angie is impressed by this because in her home island people never disobey her. As a result, Angie begun to realize her interest in Shuichi is her own and not because of god, and for the first time, she has a chance to speak her own mind. She really wishes to make Shuichi her husband, shown in the way she glomps him and occasionally does or says something suggestive, but he is very hesitant because they are still so young and don't even know each other very well. During Angie's graduation event in the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, after she hears Shuichi's reasoning about not getting married right away and getting to know each other better at first, she is silent for a moment and then cheerfully answers that it's okay, tooーthis shows that she is willing to listen to her significant other's opinions, despite usually appearing interested only in her own.

Due to the customs of her home island, Angie is also shown to have quite different views on sexuality. She has quite poor understanding of personal space and can even begin to undress other people in public if she is interested in them. This is also seen in the Chapter 3 bonus event, when the girls are in the dressing room, as Angie is cheerfully surprised by how large Tsumugi's breasts are and want to touch themーthough, she at least has the courtesy to ask Tsumugi if she would mind that. It's also indicated that in Angie's home island people do rituals in which multiple people engage in sexual acts together, and thus Angie wouldn't mind such situations and in fact looks forward to her coming-of-age ceremony which is heavily implied to be group sex between all the participants. She also claims that during weddings the guests will "share" the bride and in general, she appears to have a very nonchalant view on marriage, willing to make such decisions on a whim. As a result of all of this, Angie doesn't seem to fully understand how consent works at times, as some sexual rituals on her island are considered obligatory parts of celebrations or pleasing other people. For some reason, she tends to refer to sexual situations as "exercising" and "workouts".


Ultimate Artist 
Angie's talent as the Ultimate Artist is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Angie is a skilled artist in the past.

Angie is shown creating a detailed, wooden statue in her promotional work. She is also shown wearing a utility belt filled with carving tools which may imply carving is her main skill. Besides sculptures, she can work with drawings. She tends to give the  to god, who in her opinion is the one who really creates everything.

Angie is capable of craving replica from wax as shown in Chapter 3 where she created Kaede, Ryoma, Rantaro, and Kirumi's perfect and extremely detail replica. Shuichi noted that Kaede's wax "size" has the same size as the original.

In her Free Time Events, it's heavily implied that her artwork can strongly affect the viewer's mind.

Supernatural 
Angie fully believes herself to be an oracle of Atua, though it hasn't been fully explained why. While most situations concerning her abilities are very ambiguous and many of her beliefs seem misguided, there have been a few situations which heavily imply that she does possess some form of actual supernatural abilities, similar to Yasuhiro Hagakure.

During Chapter 1's trial, she claims through "Atua's divine logic" that the culprit hid inside a secret room in the library and used it to commit their crime. Nobody believes the claim and Kaede is voted and executed as the culprit. Much later in Chapter 6, it is revealed that Angie's claim was exactly correct and that the true culprit was Tsumugi.

Angie's art skills also appear supernatural. Whenever she creates her art, she appears to be in genuine trance, and she claims she is controlled by Atua during such moments. It is also shown that her art has the power to strongly affect other people's minds, similar to Ryota Mitarai's brainwashing techniques. When Shuichi looks at one of her drawings, his face appears horrified and he completely loses consciousness almost instantly. Angie claims it's a common reaction and that only God's "chosen ones" can look at the drawing without fainting.

She is implied to have other brainwashing abilities that also appear supernatural. In Chapters 2 and 3, she convinces some other students to join her Student Council. The process includes giving the other person a hug while describing their ideal form of Atua to them in a gentle voice. The person then appears almost hypnotized and becomes instantly loyal to Angie. Strangely, Angie is capable of describing the others' ideal persons in great detail despite seemingly having no way to actually know any of thatーFor Gonta it would be a "gentle grandma", for Himiko a "handsome guy", and during the bonus mode she even offers Atua to Mondo Owada, in the form of "a macho, reliable older brother".

In other 
Angie's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Artist
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「美術部」	Super High School Level Art Club Member
Français Artiste Ultime	Ultimate Artist
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的美術社員	Super High School Level Art Club Member
中文 超高中级的美术社员	Super High School Level Art Club Member
Relationships 
Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Himiko 
Though appearing uninterested and lazy at first, making comments about how Atua is "suspicious", and is off put by Angie's cheerful personality, Himiko quickly becomes close friends with Angie in Chapter 2 and converting into her religion to worship Atua, which she believes assists her, and stated by Angie, a very "handsome god". This makes Tenko upset and very jealous with how close they've become, overprotective of Himiko and disliking Angie. Angie describes Himiko as a "good girl and fast learner".

However, the other students, mostly Tenko, are disturbed by their bond, which appears to be a result of brainwashing. They all believe that Himiko goes with what Angie says rather easily, despite being near-exact opposites. Shuichi even makes a comment before Himiko performs her magic trick, pointing out that she doesn't go along with Angie's jokes, as usual, being so nervous to perform.

Himiko is shown to trust and like Angie very much, and Angie even assists Himiko with making a magic show the show off her talent, which was Angie's idea. Unfortunately, the show is quickly jeopardized by Ryoma Hoshi's murder.

Despite their bond, Angie goes to immediately accuse Himiko of being Ryoma's killer when there was evidence that showed Himiko was capable of being the killer. When Tenko asks her why she's so quick to throw her friend under the bus, Angie states casually that she only needed to do so because she didn't want her classmates to die due to choosing the wrong culprit, especially seeing as Himiko was most suspicious at the time. Himiko doesn't blame Angie for this, as she is extremely trusting of her and Atua's logic, which baffles Tenko greatly.

Because of how suspicious and unsettling Angie is with the others, including her bond with Himiko, Tenko later joins her Student Council to be with Himiko and protect her, and later betrays Angie by going to Maki Harukawa and Shuichi Saihara for help.

When Angie and Tenko are killed the next day by Korekiyo, Himiko is devastated by this, only able to mourn their deaths during the investigation. She actively participates in their Class Trial, determined to solve their murders and find their killer.

After Korekiyo is confirmed to be the killer of both Angie and Tenko, she's infuriated, demanding to know why he did it. After he explains he killed the two girls for his sister, she's confused but no less angry.

After his execution, she's pushed by Kokichi to stop bottling up her feelings. She starts sobbing in the trial room, crying about how lonely she is without Angie and Tenko.

Tenko 
Tenko and Angie have somewhat of a rivalry, and Angie is the only other girl she isn't that fond of. Tenko, who doesn't believe in God's help, sees Angie as an unsettling person since she is always happy during the Killing Game knowing that God is on her side. Tenko's dislike for Angie strengthens once she and Himiko become close friends as well, believing she's being brainwashed.

Tenko later becomes jealous in Chapter 2, making a comment about "why couldn't have been [her]!?" in regards to Himiko worshipping Atua, as Angie claims, is a very "handsome God." When Angie and Himiko announce their magic show in the gym, Tenko elects to stand by the gym's entrance, muttering about Angie, and telling Shuichi she's trying to telepathically communicate with Himiko... which doesn't work.

In Chapter 3, Tenko joins the Student Council led by Angie in order to keep an eye on the artist and protect Himiko. She ends up betraying Angie and the rest of the Student Council when she guided Shuichi and Maki to Angie's Research Lab to make an attempt at stopping Angie from performing the ritual.

Tenko does shamefully admit that she dislikes Angie enough to the point she thought of "wanting her gone" a while ago to Maki, but feels terrible for thinking that, especially after Angie dies the next day.

Tenko was devastated to find Angie dead despite their misgivings and regrets how she was being hostile towards her. She volunteers to help with the Caged Child Ritual to resurrect Angie with the others to try and reveal the killer but fails when she's killed by Korekiyo during the seance.

In the bonus mode, Tenko admits that she likes Angie's art and that she made Himiko's performance better.

Gonta 
Angie appears to like Gonta, though seemingly because she finds him useful due to his strength and selfless personality. She wishes to be carried by Gonta more than once.

Kaede 
Kaede sees Angie as a very religious person and is a bit creeped out when Angie asks for some blood to sacrifice to her god. Whether good girl or bad, Kaede thinks that it won't be easy to get close to her.

After Kaede was executed for Rantaro Amami's murder, Angie forgave Kaede for her deed and said that she would rest in heaven, but Miu replied that Kaede had a horrible way to go.

Kokichi 
When Kokichi cries and appears scared at one point, Angie comforts him by telling him about Atua. Kokichi then appears to calm down immediately, but it's likely that he was just acting and messing with her.

After Angie's student council is formed, Kokichi is shown to dislike it and the brainwashing quite a lot, even having a few genuinely angry reactions while listening to the brainwashed students. More or less jokingly, he proclaims that the rest of the students should have a war against the student council.

Free 

Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Angie Yonaga, Hotel Kumasutra#Angie Yonaga
Angie Pixel Head Icon
Angie Yonaga
Loves:	030. Beret, 064. Sketchbook, 065. Art Manikin, 089. Art Piece of Spring, 107. Tentacle Machine, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	002. Boba Tea, 004. Cleopatra's Pearl Cocktail, 005. Non-Alcoholic Drink of Immortality, 009. Astro Cake, 010. Bubble Gum Bomb, 012. Greek Yogurt, 014. Rock Hard Ice Cream, 017. Gyoza In the Shape of a Face, 018. Silver Earring, 019. Crystal Bangle, 024. Mono-Jinbei, 028. Nail Brush, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 036. Feelings of Ham, 038. Dreams Come True ☆ Spell Book, 039. Story of Tokono, 046. Teddy Bear, 048. Illusion Rod, 049. Hand Mirror, 058. Gold Origami, 067. Proxilingual Device, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 071. Dancing Haniwa, 081. Jelly Balls, 084. Semazen Doll, 086. Pillow of Admiration, 088. Monkey's Paw, 091. Space Egg, 098. Hammock, 101. Marigold Seeds, 103. Perfect Laser Gun, 110. Fully-Automated Shaved Ice Machine
Quotes 
DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"Yah-hah! How are ya? My name is Angie Yonaga! I'm the Ultimate Artist!"
"I draw drawings and I sculpt sculptures. But Atua's the one who makes the art. I merely offer my body as His vessel. Nyahahaha! How divine!"
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"Nyahahaha! There's no reason to carry bad thoughts with ya! You gotta live every day like it's bright, cheery, and fun!...So says Atua."
"There is no need to worry. Atua will protect us."
Chapter 1:

"I'm sure we'll be fine. A divine wind will blow through and lift us to victory."
"I'm just relieved that no one was seriously injured. Praise be to Atua."
"Praise be to Atua. Surely He helped you in His own mysterious, miraculous way." (to Himiko Yumeno)
"I'm just gonna pray to Atua."
"Ohhhh! Atua give us strength!"
"I'm sure we'll be fine. A divine wind will blow through and lift us to victory."
"You don't need to worry. Atua will welcome you with open arms."
"If you pray, Atua will watch over you both while you work hard.
"Atua is a merciful god. He forgives everyone, even those who do not believe."
"I will work hard with Atua's guidance. I'm much happier alive than dead anyway."
"It's important to believe. Atua only shows mercy to those who believe."
"Investigating is important, but I gotta say my prayers to Atua, too."
"If I pray hard enough, I'll learn enough points to become a platinum disciple."
Chapter 2:

"Atua says that this academy suffers from the same sins as the outside world. You're all unhappy cuz your greed is making you treat each other like adversaries. Atua has spoken... Your desire to leave this place is only worsening your greed. So we must case aside that sinful greed, and rejoice in our new lives here."
"It's not enough to simply live here forever. Our lives must also be full of divine purpose. In other words... We must make this academy heaven on earth! In doing so...our desire to leave will vanish, and the killings will cease."
"This place provides us all with shelter, food, clothing, and wonderful friends! What could you possibly desire? Do not give in to your greed."
"Everyone is so nice... Atua deserves all the ."
"Nyahahaha! Only the strong can survive in this world that Atua has created."
"Nothing can escape Atua's sight. Not even the culprit. Nyahahaha! Atua is truly a divine force to be reckoned with!"
He is using His divine knowledge to show us the way to survive... ...You should thank Him, lest He pour his holy wrath upon you all."
"You may think you're protecting Himiko, but what if she really is the culprit? We'll all die, and it will be all your fault. Atua will lose precious devotees."
"Yes, yes. Those who believe shall be saved."
"Belief shall set you free!"
"It's bad to have no reason to live, but it's also bad to have too many reasons to live. That's why you did such a terrible thing, right Kirumi? For too many reasons."
"All desire, even your desire to escape this place, can corrupt you beyond redemption."
"It'll be fine. As long as we listen to Atua, we'll all be just fine."
Chapter 3:

"Best let sleeping gods lie."
"If that's the case, then Atua and I will work with everyone to uphold the peace."
"Yayyy! A new area means we can all have lots more fun."
"Atua and I will cooperate so everyone can have a super fun school life."
"Atua sees everything. Even what everyone truly desire."
"That's right! Atua is always watching over me! Nyahahahah! That's Atua for ya! He's so divine!"
"If our lives here become more enriched, then there's even less reason to leave this place."
"Symmetry is a western beauty ideal. They like symmetry and the golden ration and such... But I think asymmetry and partition functions are more beautiful."
"I don't need references when Atua is the one who creates art. From now on, this place will be filled with my collaborations with Atua!"
"Atua was touched by everyone's feelings, so He said we must all preserve the peace here! Nyahahaha! I'm so relieved! I'll work with everyone to make this academy a paradise!"
"He's right. Murder and death have no place in a peaceful academy life."
"Nyahaha! It doesn't matter what the motive is, we will not do the killing game anymore."
"Either way, there's nothing more divine than being reunited with a friend."
"You work so hard, Gonta. You're always trying to keep everyone safe. Even when you go berserk, you're still considerate of everyone else, aren't you? I know this...because Atua is always watching you. ...Don't worry. You're not alone, Gonta. Atua is like a gentle grandmother, watching over you and keeping you safe."
"Nyahaha! You're so odd, Maki. What's more important—freedom or a person's life?"
"Umm, we need to remove all worry and doubt, so everyone can have a peaceful life here. Cuz that's what Atua says. That's what Atua says."
"Thank you for always supporting me. Atua smiles on you for your plain and simple service."
"Atua exists beyond time itself, but I'm certain you will feel His presence very soon."
"Geez! This isn't good! If your life is in disarray, your mind and body will be, too."
"The more friends we have, the more fulfilling our lives will be."
"Life cannot always be fun and smiles... Atua must make difficult, even cruel, decisions. But, but! We must submit to Atua's will if we're to live a peaceful school life."
"That motive is of no concern to us, as long as you cast aside your desire to escape."
"Atua has spoken... Nothing bad will happen as long as you put aside all thoughts of escape."
Chapter 6 (Fake Memory):

"Nyahahaha! We're already friends! Even Atua says that we're friends!"
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

While Angie's ethnicity hasn't been stated outright, there is multiple implications that she is Polynesian.
She is indicated to be foreign to Japan, notable from her non-Japanese name (that has been pointed out by Shuichi), dark skin and unusual use of language. She mentions living on an island nation in the center of the ocean.
In her promotional artwork, Angie is shown to be carving a statue which bears resemblance to a Tiki statue, which are generally related to Central Eastern Polynesian culture.
While in the original Japanese version Angie's island god is simply called the God, in the official English version he is called Atua, which means gods and spirits of the Polynesian peoples.
In the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, she greets Shuichi with "alola" when she comes to ask him on a date. This is a reference to Pokémon Sun and Moon, which takes place in the fictional Alola region, which is based on Hawaii. The people of Alola use the word "alola" as a greeting, referencing the traditional Hawaiian greeting "aloha".
Angie's Japanese title (超高校級の「美術部」) actually means Super High School Level Art Club Member - "art club" being common after-school activity available in most Japanese schools, where students practice fine arts such as painting and sculpting.
In the original Japanese release, Angie and Tenko speak in the third person. Other characters with the same quirk within the series are Ibuki Mioda, Monaca Towa, and Gonta Gokuhara.
Angie is the only character in Danganronpa V3 who is always on the protagonist's side in Debate Scrums.
Angie's portrait in the Class Trials after her death has angel wings and a halo instead of the usual red X due to her religious nature.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Angie the 14th most popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Angie was voted the 15th most popular student in the electronic poll, and 5th through post cards.

Gonta Gokuhara (獄原 ゴン太 Gokuhara Gonta) is a character featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony and a participant of the Killing School Semester.

As a young child, he became lost in the woods, where he was raised by a pack of wolves. There, he learned how to communicate with animals and bugs, which later earned him the title of the Ultimate Entomologist (超高校級の「昆虫博士」chō kōkō kyū no "konchū hakase" lit. Super High School Level Entomologist).

Gonta Gokuhara was a normal talentless high school boy who participated in the 53rd Season of Danganronpa, a famous worldwide reality show made by Team Danganronpa.

During his high school days, Gonta attended Saint Mountain Academy (飯田橋工業高校). However, it is unclear if this memory of him is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it was genuine.

Fabricated Past
After he successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Gonta's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

Gonta was born into a very rich and refined family. Ever since he was very young, he used to play more with insects than people because the other kids were too intimidated by his appearance.

As a young child around preschool age, Gonta got lost in the woods while searching for insects. Gonta survived thanks to being raised by a family of Reptites, a race of dinosaur people who evolved from surviving dinosaurs and lived hiding after losing a battle for dominant species against humans long ago. They lived alone deep in the forest, and Gonta learned to speak with animals and insects. Sometimes Gonta would find and be challenged by legendary fighters, learning a bit about their civilizations too. His adoptive family warned Gonta not to tell about their existence to humanity, so Gonta promised he wouldn't and began lying about being raised by a "family of kind wolves".

After ten years, he was finally returned safely to his original family and he earned his Ultimate.Thanks to the knowledge he obtained from his mountain family, he identified and cataloged insect species not yet known by humanity, strongly advancing his field of study. He had also developed cultivation methods, and once discovered a parasitic worm that was causing disease, and was praised as a hero after saving many lives. However, his family strictly reprimanded him for becoming wild and not elegant enough to uphold the family's name, blaming Gonta's mountain family. Gonta then decided he must prove himself by becoming a true gentleman in order to make his human family acknowledge his mountain family.

It is unclear how much, if any, of Gonta's past before participating in the 53rd Killing Game was real, and which fabricated by Team Danganronpa.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Gonta and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Gonta was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participant, however, Gonta and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Gonta chose to forget about his ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Gonta and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Gonta and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, the true Mastermind, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, was actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

While Gonta did remember about the Ultimate Hunt in Chapter 2, his and everyone else's funeral in Chapter 3, and the meteorite impacts in Chapter 4 thanks to the Flashback Lights, he ultimately has no complete recollection of the event, as he was executed before he actually received a complete memory about The Gofer Project by the Flashback Light in Chapter 5.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Gonta was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Gonta was confused about their current predicament. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived in their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light. Gonta and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. He also received the talent and title of Ultimate Entomologist. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Gonta and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester. Students of Fabrication
Gonta was later found outside the school building by Kaede and Shuichi, the Ultimate Detective. At first, Kaede was rather intimidated by his physique and overall appearance but still attempted to greet him. As soon as she did, Gonta was very happy that someone wished to talk to him since it was rare for anyone to speak to him because of his appearance. He introduced himself as the Ultimate Entomologist, Kaede felt silly for being so scared of him when in reality he was actually very kind. When Shuichi asked him about bugs, Gonta asked Shuichi if he liked bugs as well. When the detective didn't give a clear answer, Gonta became increasingly more threatening, angrily asking him if he hated bugs. With Kaede's support, they managed to calm down the Ultimate Entomologist. Gonta felt relieved, stating that no bad person could like bugs. The duo both felt as if they dodged a bullet, but kept the fact that they aren't that fond of insects to themselves so that they didn't incur Gonta's wrath.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester Gonta would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement. Once the Monokuma Kubs showed up with their Exisals again, Gonta told the rest of the frightened students to get behind him, wishing to protect everyone. Afterwards, Monokuma, the Monokuma Kubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, also arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game, much to almost everyone's shock and horror. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.
Attempting the Death Road of 
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Gonta read the rules on his Monopad. A majority of the group wasn't sure what to do after reading these rules and began to panic and argue. Thanks to Kaede's motivational speech, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Afterwards, Gonta remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building and informed everyone about his discovery. Gonta lead everyone else to where he found the manhole, with hopes of finding a way out.

Gonta lifted the cover Gonta was easily able to pick up the heavy manhole cover with only two fingers, showing everyone just how strong he was before tossing it to the side as if it were Frisbee. Descending the manhole, Gonta and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Gonta and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through the Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Gonta included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Gonta headed to his assigned dorm room to get some rest.
On The 
After the first motive and additional motives are presented, the First Blood Perk and the time limit, Gonta like almost everyone else, became increasingly concerned. Gonta desperately wanted everyone to stick together, but his pleas fell on deaf ears. Gonta would not do anything noteworthy the coming days, simply wanting to be useful to everyone, but unsure of how he could.

Gifted Students heading to the game room On the final day as the time limit was drawing closer to its end, Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, asked Gonta to join his strategy meeting, thinking that since he was physically very powerful that he would be useful when it came to fighting Monokuma. He agreed, and so him, Kaito, Tenko Chabashira, the Ultimate Aikido Master, Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, Maki Harukawa, the Ultimate Child Caregiver, and Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ???, headed down to the game room in the basement to conduct their strategy meeting. Gonta however, locked himself in the AV room not long after the meeting began in order to watch a bug movie which he claimed would fill him with "fight" to fight Monokuma, though this only drew the suspicion from the rest of the group during the meeting. The remaining people in the game room rushing into the library.Not long after however, Rantaro excused himself to go to the restroom while actually going to investigate the library, knowing of the secret room thanks to his Survivor Perk Monopad. Tenko and Kaito would also leave the game room and join Kaede and Shuichi in storming the library, only to find the bookcase in the back of the room closing and Rantaro's corpse not far away from it. Tenko's scream alerted the Gonta and the remaining people in the game room and they came rushing in. Gonta was frightened at the discovery of Rantaro's body and all the blood, then asked Angie how she could remain so calm. As everyone pondered what was going on and whether or not the Killing Game had officially begun or ended, the body discovery announcement played and eventually everyone was in the library.
During the investigation, Kaito and Himiko would question Gonta in the AV room, finding it suspicious that he would lock himself in. Gonta seemingly panicked and tried to tell the duo that he didn't kill Rantaro. Kaede and Shuichi did find it odd but didn't automatically suspect Gonta.

The First Class 
During the Class Trial, Gonta would later be suspected of killing Rantaro since he had locked himself in the AV room. He was quick to deny the claim, though when Tenko asked him to present an alibi, he asked where he could find one, showing his lack of common knowledge. Kaede was quick to defend him, stating that he could not have gone out into the hallway since the door from the AV room into the hallway was broken and that he couldn't get out through there.

Gonta was reassured, but Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, pressed further, apologizing to him, but stating that she would do whatever she could for everyone's sake. She stated that he didn't need to open the AV room door all the way, just enough for him to fit his arm through it and use the folded up screen from the AV room as a pole to open the door to the library directly across the hall, and throw the shot put ball, which she claimed he could do with his immense strength presented when he lifted the manhole cover. Kaede however, would deny this as well since the moved bookshelf in the library would have been in the way of the shot at that time. As such, it would have been impossible for Gonta to murder Rantaro. Gonta was extremely grateful where-as Kirumi apologized for doubting him, to which he replied that it wasn't a problem and all done to find the truth. Later, when the crime was being pinned on Shuichi Saihara, Gonta was among the students to defend him.

When Shuichi revealed Kaede as Rantaro's killer, Gonta could not believe it. He could not believe that Kaede, who wanted everyone to survive and escape together, could kill someone. He was quick to defend her along with Kaito, but it was for nothing. After the voting had ensued and Kaede was found blackened, Gonta still couldn't believe it, but still viewed her as a dear friend for going so far just to protect everyone.

Protect Akamatsu
When Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs wanted quick to execute her, Gonta along with Kaito and Tenko rushed to her defense despite facing an Exisal, resolving to put their lives on the line if Kaede was willing to do the same for them. Kaede told them to stop, telling them that she was ready to die, much to their dismay.

Following Kaede's execution, Gonta shed tears at her demise and considered her a good friend and a great person. He reassured Shuichi that if he needed anything, he can feel free to ask him before leaving the trial grounds with everyone else aside from Kaito and Shuichi.

Gonta's Research 
The morning of the next day, Gonta along with everyone else would gather in the dining hall once again and have a normal, but forced conversation to try and make themselves not think about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. As Kirumi prepared breakfast for everyone, Kokichi and Gonta both asked her to be their mom. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that would become unlocked would be the remaining second floor of the school, which contained Gonta's Research Lab. Upon discovering it with Shuichi, the Ultimate Entomologist took an immediate liking to it while Shuichi kept the fact that all the bugs on display grossed him out to himself. Gonta was determined to help raise the insects that had yet to hatch, then mentioned that he wanted to thank the person who prepared this lab for him. When the Ultimate Detective told him that the one who set up his lab was more than likely Monokuma and his Kubs, Gonta became dejected, thinking that no one who loves bugs could be a bad person like Monokuma.

Angie eventually told Gonta and everyone else to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight that she and Shuichi had discovered earlier. After everyone had gathered, Monokuma appeared and told the participants that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Gonta included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

The Motive 
During that same night, the Monokuma Kubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. The next morning, Gonta joined everyone in the dining hall in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. Gonta accidentally let slip that he had gotten Tsumugi Shirogane's, the Ultimate Cosplayer's, motive video though she didn't seem to mind. Despite Ryoma Hoshi, the Ultimate Tennis Pro, suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. Gonta went along with whatever everyone decided, though Kokichi had other ideas and lied to Gonta that they had made a promise before and that they should talk about it, taking advantage of his naivete.

Gonta's Insect Meet and 
Kokichi, wanting to make everyone watch each other motive videos in order to make the killing game "more exciting", thought up of a plan. He lied to Gonta that everyone in the academy hated bugs. Hearing this, Gonta cried and declared that he would get everyone to like bugs in an "Insect Meet and Greet". As a result, two days after the motive videos were distributed, Gonta began to kidnap various students into his lab, completely unaware of the Ultimate Supreme Leader's true intentions.

Gonta Gokuhara discovers Shuichi Saihara and Ryoma Hoshi outside the dormitory
Gonta would succeed in detaining Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist, K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot, Tenko, and Tsumugi. He would next target Kaito was able to evade him somehow, warning Shuichi about Gonta before making a break for it again. Shuichi saw this and tried to sneak out of the dorms without Gonta noticing and ran into Ryoma. Despite his best efforts, Shuichi is also detained by the Ultimate Entomologist and brought to his lab, apologizing later for accidentally knocking him unconscious before continuing his kidnapping spree.

Gonta encountered a nude Iruma
For the remaining hour of the night, Gonta would attempt to kidnap the remaining students with mixed results. He was unable to detain Ryoma thanks to his Shukuchi method. He also failed in detaining Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor because she had stripped down to her underwear so that he wouldn't touch her. This caused Gonta to become incredibly flustered and run away. He then failed in detaining Kirumi, saying that even he couldn't "overcome her", and Maki who continued to guard over her Research Lab and threatened to make him choke on his own tongue if he so much as tried to touch her. Kaito continued to evade and hide from Gonta all night.

Gonta Insect Appreciation Club
Despite Gonta's failures, he was able to bring Angie and Himiko to his lab. Kokichi joined not long after, having broken into everyone's rooms and stolen their motive videos for his own purposes. While Gonta didn't know what Kokichi was planning, he still commenced the Insect Meet and Greet. Everyone panicked as insects began to buzz about and wrecked havoc. After Kokichi returned once again, K1-B0 used his recording function in order to convince Gonta that Kokichi had tricked him so that this absurdity would end. Gonta became outraged by this and would order all the insects to swarm on him instead as punishment. Everyone else who had been detained was thankfully able to take back their motive videos and leave, heading to their dorm rooms to finally get some rest.

The Amazing Himiko's Magic 
Gonta concern
The very next morning, Gonta attended Angie and Himiko's magic show along with Kirumi and everyone else from the Insect Meet and Great, bar Kokichi. Angie explained the details of Himiko's trick before the Ultimate Magician jumped into the tank, having only a single minute to escape the water tank before the tank would fill with piranha's. Angie closed the curtains, but everyone grew increasingly worried as the timer continued to count down and Himiko had yet to come out. Gonta couldn't take it anymore and stormed the stage, wanting to save Himiko before the piranha's would fill the tank, much to Angie's disappointment. Once the timer ran out, the piranha's dropped into the tank along with some other large object, though Himiko had yet to come out of the tank. Tenko begged Angie to open the curtains, a plea that she promptly responded to by revealing the tank, however, no one was prepared for what they were about to see. Ryoma's lifeless, handcuffed body drifted within the tank, for only a couple seconds before the piranha's stripped the flesh from his bone, leaving nothing more than a skeleton, the handcuffs, and his belongings behind. With that, the second investigation had begun.

Tenko and Gonta throwing K1-B0 to break the water tank After the body discovery announcement played, the remaining students gathered in the gym. Kokichi playfully urged Gonta to throw K1-B0 against the tank because it would take too long to drain by hand. Tenko helped Gonta use the Ultimate Robot like a battering ram and shattered the tank. Gonta would then pick up the piranha's with his bare hands and put them in a bucket in order to clean up the scene of the crime.
The Second Class 
During the second trial, even though Gonta didn't intend for it, his Insect Meet and Greet would end up giving many people alibis for the time of Ryoma's murder. Gonta storming the stage during Himiko's magic show also proved to be a key piece of evidence in finding Himiko innocent, as he didn't see anything in the tank before the piranha's and Ryoma's body had fallen in. Shuichi was also able to determine that Miu had an alibi because Gonta's statements and her statements matched up, much to the Ultimate Entomologist's embarrassment.

After Shuichi was able to pin the crime on Kirumi, Gonta could not believe it. He could not believe that after all, she had done to take care of everyone that she could be the culprit. Gonta was incredibly saddened once Kirumi confessed to her crime, but after learning that she was the de facto Prime Minister of Japan and responsible for all of its citizens, Gonta asked Monokuma if he could take Kirumi's place as the blackened, thinking that Kirumi's life would have far more value than his due to how much she has to protect. In reality, Kirumi was only trying to trick everyone to defend her so she could escape, much to everyone's, including Gonta's, displeasure. The Ultimate Entomologist would later watch as Kirumi was brutally executed by Monokuma.

Investigating the New 
The next morning, at Kokichi's request after unveiling Maki's true talent the night prior, Gonta along with everyone else barring Maki paid a visit to the "Ultimate Child Caregiver's Research Lab" only to discover various weapons all throughout the lab, proving that Maki was, in fact, the Ultimate Assassin, not a child caregiver. Gonta offered to help restrain Maki if it came to that, but Kaito reassured everyone and said that he would take care of Maki. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy.

One of the places that became unlocked was the eerie fourth floor. Gonta, along with Tsumugi, was creeped out by the floor's different design. The Monokuma Kubs then showed up an explained that apparently someone had died here long ago, though it was more than likely just some made-up backstory. Gonta, Shuichi and Tsumugi would explore the three vacant rooms on the floor. All three rooms were the same and fairly unremarkable, though Gonta was able to notice that the floorboards were all loose and not nailed down properly.

Later on, Gonta would gather with everyone else in the dining hall in order to inspect the new Flashback Light that Shuichi found. Upon using it, everyone remembered what seemed to be their own funeral, much to the student's confusion. Kaito reassured everyone that there's no way the funeral could be real considering they were all still here and alive. His small speech seemed to work, as everyone perked back up, enjoyed a small meal, then headed back to their dorms.

Angie's Student 
Gonta gathered with everyone in the gymnasium the very next morning at the Monokuma Kubs request. The participants were presented with the third motive, the Necronomicon, and were told that they would be able to bring back someone who had died already as a transfer student. This motive baffled the students, saying that there's no way the dead could come back to life. However, Angie seemed to embrace the motive, saying the "corpses" so far may have just been very accurate imitations to make the real people seem dead. Some of the students argued that there's no way that's possible, but Gonta said that more letters were added to the rock in the courtyard, deducing that perhaps the four people who had died are actually alive and wrote that message. Angie praised Gonta and, like Himiko before him, pulled him into a hug. She instilled hers and Atua's authority into him by reassuring him that he's not alone and that Atua is like a gentle grandmother that always keeps him safe, effectively playing off of Gonta's desire for a motherly figure. Angie hugging Gonta
Angie then said that Gonta should join the student council, wanting to make Gonta feel needed. Tsumugi, and Himiko both requited this feeling. As a result, the Ultimate Entomologist did not hesitate for even a second if it meant he could be useful to everyone and joined Angie's group. Shuichi however, was confused as to what Angie meant by "student council", but K1-B0 replied by saying that Angie summoned himself, Himiko, Tenko, and Tsumugi last night in order to discuss how to eradicate the Killing Game. As a result, this group of students ended up forming the "Ultimate Academy Student Council" with Angie as their president. The "brainwashed" members listen to Angie completely and without question, stating that her will is Atua's will and as a result, she cannot be wrong. In reality, Angie was simply trying to take control of everybody and make them dependent on Atua. Angie took the Necronomicon and told everyone else to "leave it to the student council". Despite only being recruited recently, Gonta obeyed the Student Council without question.

However, Angie trying to unify the group with her student council only ended up causing discord between the student council and the non-student council members, such as during that same night when the student council ridiculed Maki for being out at nighttime. The very next morning, the two split parties came into conflict yet again after finding out that the student council had blocked off the manhole in the boiler room with a large rock, Gonta specifically saying that he was the one who blocked the manhole. Angie even goes as far as to destroy a Flashback Light from the Monokuma Kubs, wanting to quell any desire to leave no matter the cost. Despite their extreme methods, Gonta and the rest of Angie's student council had no malicious intent for the group as a whole, only wishing to stop another murder from happening by whatever means necessary. Despite this, it became obvious to some of the others that Angie was going too far.

The Third Investigation and 
Two days after the motive is presented, Angie's body was discovered in her own lab by Shuichi, Maki, and Tenko. After the body discovery announcement played Gonta rushed in and was incredibly saddened to find their student council president deceased. He mourned her death along with the other student council members as the investigation began. Later after Tenko had died during the seance, Gonta became even more upset, crying and apologizing to Tenko post-mortem for being unable to protect her.

During the third trial itself, and everyone was discussing on whether or not to discuss Tenko's death, Gonta stated that Tenko was their friend and that he wanted to know why she died as well regardless of whether or not they had to find Angie's killer first. Eventually, Shuichi was able to pin Korekiyo as the culprit of both Tenko's and Angie's murders. This outraged Gonta, asking him why he killed two of their friends. Eventually, the Ultimate Anthropologist confessed to the crime and told everyone his motivations. His reasoning for murder baffled Gonta, unable to understand why he would kill for his deceased sister and called it morally wrong. In the end, Gonta watched with everyone else as Korekiyo was executed by Monokuma.

Gonta carries Yumeno After the trial had officially concluded, Himiko broke down in tears at the loss of both of her friends. She cried so much that she ended up falling asleep. Gonta graciously carried her back to her room, smiling all the while.
Remembering the 
The very next morning following the third class trial, Gonta gathered with everyone in the dining hall yet again. The group became disheartened to see how many people they had lost up until now. Monokuma then showed up along with his Kubs to hand out the next set of random items to unlock more areas with, along with a card key that according to Monophanie would be the next motive, though Kokichi stole it and ran off. Gonta would search the academy with everyone else for new areas to explore

The Gofer Project Meteorites Everyone later regathered in the dining hall to investigate yet another Flashback Light. Once used on themselves, everyone remembered the meteorites that impacted the Earth and that it was described as being very similar to the meteor impact that wiped out the dinosaurs millions of years ago. They also remembered basic details of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project saying that mankind deserved damnation, and the Gofer Project itself. Around this time, Gonta would also wonder just how he could be useful to everyone. He didn't believe he wasn't intelligent enough to help with the trials, and while he was strong, he was no match for the Exisals that enforced the rules and kept everyone trapped. This self-doubt would ultimately lead to the next actions that the Ultimate Entomologist would take in a few days from now.
Neo World 
Miu Iruma being Ironic 2
A couple days later, Miu would gather everyone, Gonta included, in the computer room on the fourth floor. She explained to everyone how she had been working on it for the past few days or so and reprogrammed it into a "world without Monokuma or the killing game". In reality, however, she was actually plotting her own murder plan in order to escape. Gonta had no idea what she was talking about due to not having any inherent understanding of computers. However, with her persuasion, Gonta and the others agreed to head into the virtual world after hearing about a supposed secret of the outside world from Monokuma.

The group preparing to go into the Neo World Program Gonta sat down in his chair and put the cords in his own headset, making sure to listen to Himiko's explanation of which slot to put both cords in. However, he ended up mixing up the memory and consciousnesses cords thanks to the Ultimate Magician's explanation, which would result in an avatar error upon his logging in. This error would ensure that Gonta would not retain any of the memories he had gained in the virtual world.
The Killing Game 
Gonta Gokuhara and Kokichi Oma being accomplice Once inside the virtual world, Gonta was as confused as he was before logging in but listened to Miu's explanation. He became worried about the fact that his avatar was not as strong as his real body, wanting to protect everyone. Later, after everyone discussed the map of the virtual world and mansion, Kokichi led Gonta to the Flashback Light the rest of the group was searching for in the forest behind the mansion, already knowing it's hiding spot. Once Kokichi showed it to him, Gonta immediately thought that they should tell everyone, but was stopped by Kokichi. The Ultimate Supreme Leader asked him if it was really okay for him to believe a liar like himself and said that he should check the Flashback Light for himself if he really wanted to trick everyone. Gonta was once again tricked by Kokichi and used the Flashback Light, causing him to see the supposed truth of the outside world. In his state of despair, Kokichi convinces Gonta that being dead without knowing anything is the best option for everyone and offers him a plan to kill Miu now and then kill everyone else with the Class Trial. Gonta completely follows Kokichi's instructions, believing that regardless of whether they were inside or outside the academy, hell was inescapable. Miu Iruma's avatar strangled to death by Gonta Gokuhara's avatar
After spotting Miu go through the wall that only objects can pass through, Gonta tells Kokichi and the maniacal liar begins to understand the aspects of the program that Miu kept hidden from them and devises the full murder plan, informing Gonta of what to do. Once Miu and Kokichi met up on the roof, Gonta waited in hiding before ambushing her from behind with a roll of toilet paper, strangling her avatar to death, causing her real body to die from shock. While in normal circumstances the toilet paper would easily tear, objects were unbreakable in the virtual world and as a result, the toilet paper was easily able to substitute for a rope. Gonta cries out "I'm sorry" multiple times, but Kokichi reassured him that it was fine before instructing him on what to do next. Gonta placed Miu's dead avatar on a lattice from the storage room and slid her off the roof, causing her to go through the wall that only objects could pass through, and crash into the side of the chapel which was only possible because the world actually looped. The loud noise created by the sudden impact alerted everyone else in the virtual world. Kokichi then instructed Gonta to scale down the roof using the toilet paper and put it back in the bathroom. While Gonta was able to hang the toilet paper from the binoculars to get off the roof, he was unable to dispose of it properly due to Shuichi and Tsumugi's untimely arrival. This made Gonta panic and so he tossed the toilet paper somewhere nearby. Gonta then joined the duo as if nothing had happened and, after rejoining everyone else, logged back out of the virtual world.

Due to the avatar error, Gonta leaves the program with no memory of what he had committed while within it. As a result, he "wakes up" to find Miu dead in her own chair, not having any idea of what actually happened. Everyone else wakes up as well, and the fourth investigation began. Gonta would have no idea what was going on due to his amnesia, but none of his statements were noted as particularly suspicious by the other participants who simply shrugged it off as Gonta not being smart with computers.

The Fourth Class 
During the class trial itself, Gonta is not once suspected of being the culprit due to his kindhearted nature. The Ultimate Entomologist would continue to make many ignorant statements about the virtual world due to having no memory of it, though this only irritated the others who were unaware of why he was so ignorant.

Eventually however, after it was revealed that Kokichi had lied about his meeting with Miu on the roof, he decided that he would take away any potential mystery solving regarding the case and bluntly stated that Gonta was Miu's killer. This shocked and angered the other participants greatly, claiming that there's no way someone like Gonta would commit murder let alone listen to Kokichi after what happened with the Insect Meet and Greet. However, both Kokichi and Shuichi, much to the latter's dismay, made it very apparent that Gonta was able to commit this crime. Gonta pleaded to Shuchi that he wasn't the culprit, while Kaito became increasingly outraged at the Ultimate Detective for believing in Kokichi over Gonta. As a result, a rift in the group formed. Gonta, feeling responsible apologized, thinking that it was his fault that everyone was so upset. Kokichi angrily told Gonta to argue back, but he was unable to due to having no memory of the crime he had committed. After realizing that Gonta had been saying things such as "I don't know", and "I don't understand" ever since leaving the virtual world, Shuichi was able to deduce that Gonta had suffered from an avatar error caused by him mixing up the cords, causing him to forget his crime, much to the group's dismay. Finally, even though Gonta himself acknowledged that he wasn't smart enough to understand what was going on, he decided to believe in everyone, thinking that they were probably right. Despite this, Gonta sadly cried out why he would do such a horrible thing, still not even understanding his own motivations. Danganronpa V3 Chapter 4 - Closing Argument Revealed
As a result, in order for everyone to understand Gonta's motivations, Monokuma programs a Gonta Alter-Ego containing Gonta's virtual memories to explain on the real Gonta's behalf. The real Gonta could seemingly understand where AI Gonta was coming from when he said that he wanted to be useful to everyone, which led to him being tricked by Kokichi. When the AI Gonta was asked about what "truth" he remembered, he said that he couldn't tell them due to not wanting them all to end up like he did, to remember a despair so horrible that you'd feel as if you wanted to die. With that, the real Gonta seemingly came to terms with his fate, not showing any signs of fear. Kokichi begs to be executed along with Gonta, but he refuses the proposal. Gonta told the group to forgive his partner for what he's done and get along well with him. Gonta apologizes to everybody for being unable to protect them until the very end. He cried before he was dragged into his execution, telling his dear friends that he loved them all.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 4 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 4 Execution

Everyone was saddened at the loss of a kindhearted soul such as Gonta, nobody blaming him for his actions. The remaining participants demanded that Kokichi explain if Gonta actually meant anything to him, but he refused. Kokichi claimed that he was faking his own tears and mocked Gonta post-mortem, calling him an idiot and saying that he died a meaningless death along with Miu. This outraged the group and made Kokichi an outcast that no one wanted to be around.

Nanokuma's 
DR V3 Chapter 6 - Truth Bullet (18)
When he was alive, Gonta often spotted little objects that he thought as bugs, but it actually turned out to be the security camera of the academy, the Nanokumas, a member of Monokuma Kubs who functioned as the security camera in the academy and reported it to Motherkuma. Kokichi believed this was an important matter, so he asked Miu to invent a bugvac to capture the "bugs" that Gonta was seeing often.

In Chapter 6, the remaining survivors spotted the Nanokumas captured by Maki and Shuichi inside the bugvac, only after K1-B0 installed the zoom function. It was said that normal human can't see it since Nanokumas are extremely small, proving that Gonta has a superhuman eyesight.

Creation and 

The katakana part of his first name gon (ゴン) may represent the kanji "昆"; the meaning of which can translate as "a swarm of an organism" (such as bugs) while the kanji "太" simply means "fat" (though in names it's used figuratively as "healthy"). This makes the meaning of his first name something along the lines of "healthy swarm of bugs." His surname kanji, gokuhara (獄原) translates to "prison meadow". 

Alternate 

Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Gonta Gokuhara
Gonta is a very tall and muscular teenager with tanned skin. He has a noticeably angular face and very long, messy brown hair, with noticeable prominent curls at the top of his head that resemble ahoges. He has red eyes and wears round glasses.

Gonta wears a brown school blazer and matching brown pants, a dark, lime-green tie, and is barefoot. He carries a bug box strapped over his shoulder and resting at his hip, the strap is a light green, nearly matching his ties color. He has a silver button on the lapel of his blazer, showing the insignia of his previous high school, and gold cufflinks.

As his appearance suggests, Gonta has incredible, superhuman strength, but he is gentle and kind, and says he would never hurt even a bug. His stoic face is especially fierce, brows knitted and frown apparent, supposedly due to his upbringing in the wild.

In the prologue, he wears the uniform of his original high school, which is dark blue. He also wears brown loafers and light brown soles, which is something he normally doesn't like to do. He awkwardly fitted his well-trained body into the uniform, but his intimidating stature overwhelms anyone who meets him. His gakuran's color is uncommon persimmon indigo (dark slate blue), which makes him look noble.


Gonta likes animals very much, especially insects, and he can even speak with them. He is a kind-hearted, gentle, and polite person. He is very pure and naive, as he easily believes strangers and can get easily discouraged by other people's comments. When he is accused of being the culprit, he answers with complete honesty even if it makes him look much more suspicious. He also does not seem to understand sexual matters very well, as after seeing half-naked Miu he states he got a "weird feeling", and he assumes being "horny" means something like having horns on your head. Even his uncharacteristic "keep you up all night" line during the Love Suite scene appears to be a case of misinformation. He himself acknowledges and often points out that he is dumb, which is one of the reasons why he listens to other people so much. Naturally, he strongly dislikes killing and cruelty, which can rather easily make him cry. However, despite his gentle nature, he can turn very angry if he sees or hears someone hating on insects, and he believes bug lovers can't be bad.Due to his strong love for bugs, he is often seen searching and yelling for them to come out, claiming that he wants to talk with them.

In order to repay his woodland family, he aims to become a true gentleman. He wants to be useful to others, but he prefers not to do physical fighting and violence. He also gets very ashamed of himself if he does something a gentleman wouldn't do, like telling lies, losing his temper, making rude assumptions, seeing someone naked or half-naked, or accidentally touching someone inappropriately. It's noted that he isn't very gentlemanly yet, as he's a bit clumsy and sometimes gets controlled by sudden and strong emotions (which is implied to be a result of being raised in the wild), but he tries very hard. He occasionally gets very scary with intense expressions, especially when talking about bugs or if he is otherwise upset or frustrated, making other people afraid. He sometimes does not seem to notice that he is unintentionally scaring others, while during some other moments he can be very perceptive of others' feelings. He sometimes fears he might never become a gentleman and he can be very hard on himself. He doesn't seem to acknowledge many of his past or current accomplishments, thinking they're just some things all gentlemen would have done.

Because he spent his childhood in the forest, Gonta is lacking general cultural knowledge and in the English version even has trouble with language, and so he often has trouble speaking with the other students. This is made worse by his intimidating appearance, which made him somewhat of an outcast even when he was a very young kid. Because of this, he doesn't like to start conversations, and he is shown to be very grateful whenever someone else approaches him, saying "thank you" as in "thank you for talking to me". He also has notable difficulties with understanding the virtual world and computers, so much in fact that the other students often don't even try to explain it to him, though he does seem to understand television and movies. Due to his background, he prefers being barefoot over wearing shoes. He also prefers sleeping naked for the same reason—however, after Kaede points out it isn't very gentlemanly, he supposedly tries to change this habit.

He is very protective towards his friends during the Killing Game, promising to protect them from any harm caused by the Killing Game. He states that in order to fulfill that goal, he will go as far as to risk his own life. Whenever he failed to fulfill this promise, he would cry and regret that he couldn't save his classmate. Notable events are when he tried to prevent Kaede Akamatsu from being dragged into her execution and he tried to be a substitute for the executed one, Kirumi Tojo. Because he couldn't use his strength against the Exisals and wasn't smart, he felt horrible because he couldn't be useful.

Gonta seemingly wishes to have a motherly figure to take care of him, possibly because he was separated from his own mother for many years during his childhood. When Kokichi asks Kirumi to be his mom, Gonta innocently but seriously asks the same, and he later imagines Angie's god as a gentle grandmother type.

In Chapter 4, while being an avatar in the Neo World Program created by Miu Iruma, Gonta's idea of protecting his friends changes after he learns the horrifying truth of the outside world. Agreeing with Kokichi that mercy killing the others while they were not aware of the horrible situation would be the best option, he obeys Kokichi's order to protect him from Miu who was planning to kill him. After he returned to the real world, he did not receive the avatar's memories, and was guilt-ridden when he found out what had happened. He is deeply sorry for his actions and believes he can never become a gentleman after what he has done, considering himself "bad". With how kind he is, the other students had a very hard time believing he was the killer, with Shuichi even suggesting that the avatar error may have changed his personality somehow. However, he takes the full responsibility for his actions, stating that he was not tricked by Kokichi and the choice was ultimately his own. Despite everything, Gonta once again shows how good his heart is, as he is willing to forgive Kokichi and tells the others not to blame him. He claims that he does not fear death, and that his biggest regret is that he couldn't protect everyone. In his final scene, he bid his friends a farewell and said he loves them all before his execution.

It should be noted that while he is not very smart, he is not as unintelligent as he believes himself to be, and has a very vast knowledge on animals and insects. He also has extraordinary knowledge of ropes and climbing, due to using them for searching bugs. Furthermore, he occasionally points out things, such as being the first one to point out that Kokichi was acting very much like Monokuma during the fourth trial.

Talent and 
Ultimate 
Gonta's talent as the Ultimate Entomologist is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Gonta is an entomologist in the past.

Danganronpa V3 Gonta Gokuhara Introduction (Demo Version)
Gonta has been interested in insects since childhood. Because he was raised by animals in the forest, he can speak with them.

In other 
Gonta's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Entomologist
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「昆虫博士」	Super High School Level Entomologist
FrançaisEntomologiste Ultime	Ultimate Entomologist
‪中文(台灣)‬超高中級的昆蟲博士	Super High School Level Doctor of Entomology
中文超高中级的昆虫博士	Super High School Level Doctor of Entomology
Superhuman Strength 
Gonta possesses an incredibly superhuman strength, though as a pacifistic person he refuses to use it against other people. His strength is emphasized by the powerful aura he possesses whenever he gets very angry.

A notable event is in Chapter 1, when he easily lifted up a heavy iron manhole with just one hand using only his thumb and finger and threw it as far as four to five meters away from him. During the investigation, he also mentioned that it would have been very easy for him to kill Rantaro Amami by throwing a shot accurately from the AV Room to the library where Rantaro was located. Even Tenko herself admitted that her Neo-Aikido is no match for Gonta's superhuman strength.

Enhanced Eyesight 
Gonta's eyesight is 20/0.625. He at one point notices extremely tiny bugs, though even he cannot see them clearly, which much later turn out to be Nanokumas.

Thermal Resistance 
According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Gonta is one of the series' characters with the strongest resistance towards the heat.This is most likely due to his background.


Family:
Human 
Gonta's human family is rich and refined. After Gonta returned to them after 10 years, they were bothered by his wild behavior and blamed Gonta's mountain family for it. Gonta wants his real family to acknowledge his other family, so he strived to become a true gentleman to prove his point that his wild family didn't ruin his elegance.

Forest 
As a child, Gonta got lost in the woods. He was raised by a family of wolves, an ancient species that isolated itself in the woods after losing a war against humans. The wolves family taught Gonta how to speak with them and other animals. Thanks to the knowledge passed by them, Gonta was able to identify insect species not yet known to humanity, earning him his Ultimate title. To repay this family for raising him, he aims to be a true gentleman and make his true family acknowledge them.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Kokichi 
Kokichi considers Gonta a typical dumb muscle and planned to use him as one of his minions from the start. His lack of respect towards Gonta is seen in the way he doesn't use any honorifics when talking to him.

In Chapter 2, Kokichi tricks Gonta to work for him by pretending to be a fellow bug lover. In order to get everyone's Kubs Pad, Kokichi used Gonta to bring the students into his Research Lab. He lied that the others had been hating on bugs and they should all have relaxing time with the insects and appreciate them. However, K1-B0 soon exposes Kokichi's lie, making Gonta furious. He grabs Kokichi, telling him that they shall spend the whole night petting bugs. The other students escape the scene quickly, hearing Kokichi's shrill screams from the room.

In Chapter 4, Kokichi seemingly manipulated Gonta into killing Miu for him, because Miu had made it so that Kokichi couldn't harm her. However, it is also indicated that they both agreed that mercy killing would be the best action, and that Gonta's decision was ultimately his own. During the class trial, Gonta felt horrible and cried, having no memories of what happened due to an avatar error. Kokichi got increasingly frustrated when Gonta was unable to argue back, and seemed genuine when he stated that it hurts his heart to persecute Gonta so much.

After hearing everything that happened, Gonta still chose to forgive Kokichi and told the others not to blame him, which seemed to genuinely touch Kokichi a lot. Seeming to feel genuinely bad, Kokichi said he should be punished too, but Gonta disagreed and just told him to promise him that everyone will forgive each other and be friends. Kokichi is speechless for a second, but in seriousness gives Gonta his word. As the execution grows closer, Kokichi seems to genuinely break down and cry and shouts Gonta's name, saying he doesn't want this and telling Gonta not to go. After Gonta is executed, the burden of all the guilt and knowledge seems to affect Kokichi's sanity, with him beginning to act exaggeratedly "evil" and claiming that he didn't care about Gonta and that he was just fake crying.

In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Kokichi often tricks Gonta with his lies, but Gonta considers him a friend after the three years they spent together. However, Kokichi tells Gonta that they won't see each other anymore after graduating due to them being a gentleman and an evil supreme leader. Kokichi tells Gonta that he won't be tricked by someone like him anymore. He claims he is so sad he barely eats and he cries himself to sleep at night, which makes Gonta worried, though Kokichi soon claims it's just a lie. Interestingly, when Gonta is genuinely saddened because he won't see Kokichi anymore, Kokichi reacts with slight anger and believes Gonta is trying to trick him back, showing that he believes other people can't genuinely care about him, not even someone as kind as Gonta. Nevertheless, Kokichi bids Gonta his farewell, claiming he isn't a gentleman like Gonta. Gonta feels even more sad as a result, and says he wishes it was a lie.

Tsumugi 
Throughout the game, Tsumugi seems to have a soft spot for Gonta and often appears to pay attention to him during some moments when the others do not. She is quite impressed and concerned about how blunt and honest Gonta is.

During Chapter 4's trial, she appeared sympathetic towards Gonta who was very confused about the virtual world, and wished to explain it to him. She also tirelessly tried to protect Gonta from being accused as Miu Iruma's killer, convinced that he is a kind soul who doesn't even kill bugs. She was shocked and saddened to find out that Gonta really is the culprit. She was especially shocked by Gonta's immense kindness after he forgave Kokichi and told the others not to blame him, and she stated that he truly is stupid sometimes, for being so kind and forgiving even in such situation. She cried heavily before and after Gonta's execution.

In Chapter 5, Tsumugi stays outside one night, looking at the stars and reminiscing what Gonta said earlier about starts being very comforting, even though the starts above the academy appeared different than usual.

As she is later revealed to be the mastermind, it's indicated that Tsumugi only acted to play this specific role assigned to her during the Killing Game.

Shuichi 
Shuichi generally treats Gonta in a gentle and patient manner, as he understands that Gonta is a very kind and innocent person. However, he can be a bit frightened whenever Gonta loses his temper. He can also be a bit uncomfortable with the way Gonta puts him on a pedestal due to him acting kind towards Gonta or because he seemingly possessed knowledge about gentlemen. During the Free Time Events, Shuichi helps Gonta to appreciate himself more.

During the fourth trial, Shuichi is shocked at the idea of Gonta being the culprit, with him even contemplating for a moment that the error in the virtual world may have somehow changed his gentle personality. However, unlike most other students, he thinks sensibly and wishes to discuss the possibility, because it is his job to find the truth no matter how painful. Even after it becomes more and more clear that Gonta is the culprit, Shuichi continues to treat crying and shocked Gonta with kindness and patience, and stops Kokichi from making him feel even more bad. With gentle but serious manner, he begins to summarize the murder case and tells Gonta that he can just tell him when he's convinced and that they can end it together.

During the Love Suite scene, Shuichi plays along with Gonta's fantasy about having a practice partner for party, though he is confused at first and isn't particularly fond of playing the lady role despite the fact that it's pretense even in the fantasy scenario. Gonta is overwhelmed by Shuichi's kindness and despite Shuichi's attempts to calm him down, he grabs Shuichi's shoulders and they accidentally fall on the bed. Shuichi is intimidated by Gonta's massive body on top of him, and Gonta quickly gets up and is horrified by what he had done, even though it was just an accident. Shuichi tries to tell him it's okay, but Gonta feels very guilty because he noticed Shuichi had been afraid and tells him that he would never want to hurt him. Shuichi appears a bit surprised and touched that Gonta had noticed his fear at the moment, and comforts Gonta with a smile and assures that he's okay and they can continue practicing. Gonta promises to be a perfect companion and take care of Shuichi, which Shuichi believes as he reciprocates to Gonta's manners by offering his hand. Shuichi is convinced that Gonta is a gentleman, though the moment is a bit ruined by Gonta's assumption that "keep you up all night" is a correct gentlemanly response to this situation.

Tenko 
Despite Tenko's hatred toward boys, she often has the same way of thinking as Gonta, as both of them always wanted to protect their friends from dangers. While Tenko openly declared that she will only protect girls, Gonta volunteered himself as the boys' protector.

Tenko wondered about how different Gonta was from generic boys. For example, he cries easily whenever one of his friends are dead and he wasn't able to protect them. Tenko, who followed Gonta, asked why a man like him was able to cry so easily.

Kaito Momota 
Kaito was highly trusting of Gonta and cared for him, They even attempted to fight against the Exisals along with Tenko Chabashira. When Gonta was being accused of killing Miu, Kaito refused to listen to Shuichi and didn't vote Gonta as a culprit, blaming Kokichi instead.

However, Kaito also occasionally scolded Gonta for apologizing so much, since he believed men shouldn't apologize so easily.

Kirumi Tojo 
After hearing Kokichi asking Kirumi to be his mom, Gonta wishes her to be his mom as well. This seems to be purely due to child-like innocence and him wishing to have a comforting female figure, possibly relating to the fact that Gonta spent several years away from his biological mother.

In Chapter 2, after Kirumi was voted guilty and was about to get executed, Gonta asked Monokuma if he could take her place, as he thought it would be a great loss for Japan to lose such an important figure like the Prime Minister Kirumi.

Miu Iruma 
Gonta is one of the very few, along with Kaede and K1-B0, who wished to be friends with Miu. After Miu's death, he didn't blame her for attempting murder, believing she was a good person and the killing game situation was at fault. With his good-heartedness, he was surprised and shocked to hear that most of the other students wouldn't have been friends with Miu even outside the killing game.

Korekiyo Shinguji 
Even thought both of them don't interact much in the game, their relationship was revealed in the Anthology manga. Gonta saves Korekiyo's life after accidentally slipped and was about to fall, however, Gonta stepped in quick to save him. Both of them however, ended up being tangled with their hair. Because Korekiyo was because couldn't move much, the students thought this was one way for someone to not kill someone for her sister. Gonta staunchly defended Korekiyo after he explained he would not kill someone to see his sister. Both of them slept together in the Hotel Kumasutra to spend the nighttime there. Gonta apologized to Korekiyo for having to spend the day with him, and asked if Korekiyo liked bugs now. Korekiyo disagreed, but said he was interested in how bugs impacted people's lives, and Korekiyo also thanked Gonta for understanding he wouldn't kill someone to escape the school just to see his sister.

Monokubs:
Monotaro 
In Chapter 4, when Monotaro suffered from severe memory issues, he somehow became friends with Gonta and the remaining students as he was helpful to them and considered him a very nice person.

After the investigation, Monophanie managed to recover Monotaro's original memories. The students were a bit sad that he wasn't their friend anymore, and Gonta even tried to somehow befriend him again, but it was not possible.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Gonta Gokuhara. Hotel Kumasutra#Gonta Gokuhara

Gonta Pixel Head Icon
Gonta Gokuhara
Loves:	013. Bunny Apples, 020. Striped Necktie, 032. Cufflinks, 068. Gourd Insect Trap, 075. Steel Glasses Case, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	007. Sugar, 009. Astro Cake, 012. Greek Yogurt, 014. Rock Hard Ice Cream, 023. Workout Clothes, 027. Cheer Coat Uniform, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 041. Fun Book of Animals, 064. Sketchbook, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 080. Aluminum Water Bottle, 084. Semazen Doll, 091. Space Egg, 093. Survival Flag, 094. Helping Yacchi, 095. Home Planet, 101. Marigold Seeds, 105. Bear Ears, 110. Fully-Automated Shaved Ice Machine, 113. Dark Belt

DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"Oh! Sorry for scaring! Gonta scary-looking. Most people not wanna talk to Gonta when meeting for first time. So, like gentleman, Gonta say thank you! Thank you for talking to Gonta!" (To Kaede Akamatsu and Makoto Naegi)
"Oh... right! Gonta need to make introduction! Ummm... Gonta's name is Gonta Gokuhara. Gonta's talent is Ultimate Entomologist. Gonta want to become gentleman! Becoming true gentleman Gonta's goal!"
"That good. No bad person likes bugs."
"Gonta could maybe use fists as weapons...but then, Gonta would be no gentleman!"
"Gonta not good at tough subjects...but Gonta will work hard for everyone's sake!"
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"Cuz of forest family, Gonta learn to speak bug and animal. As thanks Gonta wanna show forest family what great gentleman Gonta is!"
"Gentlemen not hurt people!"
Chapter 1:

"Gonta gonna escape. Become friends with everyone. Gentlemen...never give up!"
"Gonta not give up! Gentleman not give up that easy!"
"Come, everyone! Gonta use body, keep everyone safe!"
"Gonta not smart. Not sure Gonta be much help. But Gonta do his best for everyone!"
"N-No judge Gonta by his outside. On inside, Gonta gentleman."
"Gonta not eat door for breakfast! Breakfast most important meal of any gentleman's day!"
"Careful, everyone! If bad things happen, get behind Gonta!"
"Gonta is gentleman! Gentlemen not hurt people!"
"Wait! Gonta never hurt anyone! Not even insect! Gonta telling truth! Gentelmen never tell lies!"
"Gonta believe in Shuichi, too! Gentlemen always believe in friends!"
"Gontta will face you all! Times like this are why Gonta became strong! Gentlemen never back down, and neither will Gonta!"
"Gonta work hard and keep friends safe till very end!"
"Gonta not sure it waste of time. But Gonta agree, fighting not good..."
Chapter 2:

"But...no person who likes bug can be bad person."
"Pretty...! Bugs shine brighter than sparkly rocks!"
"No more... Gonta no wanna investigate friends... No wanna suspect friends..."
"No...Gonta not really understand it...Gonta not smart enough to be help..."
"Is okay to be idiot! As long as you believe in people!"
"Then Gonta will believe friends."
"Yes, but...Gonta wouldn't do that! Gentlemen not chuck dead bodies!"
"Gentlemen not throw dead bodies! Or ladders!"
"Gonta... not smart boy, but even Gonta understand what everyone saying. Kirumi should live, not Gonta! World needs her!"
"It's just...even when all this bad stuff happens, stars are always so pretty."
Chapter 3:

"If you find dangerous place, come get Gonta. Gonta will protect you."
"Don't worry, Gonta will protect you no matter what."
"Forest family teach Gonta... Everything that born and everything that die...is part of grand flow. And flow never rewind... Gonta would be happy if everything that die could come back... But even Gonta know, there no way to take back what already happen...!"
"N-Not Gonta! No way Gonta ever get used to this!"
"It's all Gonta's fault...! Gonta fail to protect friends again!"
"Gonta so ashamed...! Why Gonta no could protect friends!?"
"Himiko! Hey, Himiko! Be strong, Himiko!"
"Less friends mean it that much harder to solve mystery."
"Y-Yeah...Gonta do his best to help."
"Gonta definitely not hurt anyone. Torture Gonta if you don't believe."
"No, is not. We gotta be strong. Gotta keep thinking. Then we might find new truth. So no give up, Himiko!"
"That's right! So let's do our best!"
"Then Gonta do his best to keep everyone safe! Gonta wanna protect everyone!"
Chapter 4:

"Gonta never do that! Gonta never make trouble for everyone! It's...ungentlemanly."
"...Gonta just glad to help. Gonta want to help, even little. Tell Gonta if you need help with something, okay?"
"Shuichi is so amazing. Gonta wanna be useful to everyone too."
"Miu, calm down! It's okay! Gonta will protect you!"
"Watching friends disappear... Seeing everyone get weaker... Gonta no can take this anymore! That's why Gonta go fight Monokuma! Gonta know it reckless...but it only way to save everyone."
"Waiting around, doing nothing just make more victims... That why Gonta gotta risk his life! Real gentleman would risk life! Gonta gladly give up life to save everyone!"
"If friends are gonna fight like this, then Gonta go fight Monokuma."
"Himiko decide to work hard, and live for Angie and Tenko's sake, right? Gonta very moved by Himiko's feelings! So Gonta wanna help Himiko stay positive Gonta wanna be useful, even just a little!"
"It's important to smile, too! Smile like Gonta! Smile like gentleman!"
"N-No! If Gonta not strong, Gonta no can protect everyone!"
"Gonta not understand what's going on. Gonta not sure how helpful he can be... But Gonta can watch Kokichi so he not do anything weird!"
"Thank you...but Gonta okay. Gonta not smart enough to get sick."
"Urgh... Gonta no can forgive this. Gonta...never forgive this. Never forgive culprit, either... But Gont anever forgive self! Gonta swear to protect everyone! But Gonta fail to protect Miu! Gonta no could protect anyone again! Gonta is a failure as gentleman!"
"Gonta not understand... Gonta not understand anything... ...But Gonta frustrated and sad! Gonta no could protect Miu!"
"Gonta do his best to find culprit! Gonta...definitely do his best this time!"
"Gonta do his best, too! Gonta do his best to be even little bit useful for everyone!"
"Y-Yeah! Gonta will help, even though Gonta not know what you're talking about!"
"And also...Gonta not tell lies. And Gonta not make trouble for others... Cuz that not how gentleman act! That why Gonta *not* culprit!"
"It true! You gotta believe Gonta! Gonta would never hurt anyone!"
"Gonta just wanna help everyone! Like true gentleman!"
"M-Memory or no memory... Gonta...never hurt anyone!"
"S-Sorry... Gonta not really understand. Cuz...Gonta not smart boy... But...if everyone agree, then...everyone probably right. Gonta...trust everyone!"
"Gonta is sorry for being stupid! Gonta is sorry he make everyone suffer! Gonta so sorry!"
"Just promise Gonta...that everyone forgive each other and be friends. Okay?"
"Yeah...Gonta not cry...Gonta's...really not scared... B-But... Gonta upset! Gonta upset...he no could protect everyone!"
"Gonta love you all...!"
Gonta Alter Ego:

"Gonta just...want to...save everyone."
"Academy that force students to be part of killing game is hell. Best way to save everyone from hell, is to put them out of misery while they still not know. And only one who could do such dirty work...is Gonta."
"But...Gonta's plan to save everyone fail... Gonta not save anyone... Gonta just make everyone suffer more... Gonta...is stupid! So stupid! How can gonta call himself gentleman!?"
"Gonta is so sorry...for being stupid!"
Chapter 6 (Fake Memory):

"Gonta agree! Gonta want to be friends with everyone!"
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Gonta is the youngest and tallest male character of Danganronpa V3.
Similar to Gonta, his Japanese voice actor, Shunsuke Takeuchi is also the youngest Japanese voice actor among the cast. He was only 19 during the recordings of Danganronpa V3 in 2016.
He has never killed an insect before.
Other characters who also speak in third person within the series beside Gonta are Ibuki Mioda, Monaca Towa, Tenko, and Angie (the latter two in Japanese only).
Similar to Gundham Tanaka, Gonta is rumored to be capable of speaking with animals, although Gonta's ability is supposedly much better, as he was raised by wild animals. In the non-canon Ultimate Talent Development Plan, they bond over their shared ability to talk to animals.
In his Love Suite scene, his fantasy shows him having a male friend being his practice partner for a party, as he wishes to be a true gentleman. The friend has the role of 'a lady' and Gonta wishes he could return the favor somehow. They accidentally fall into the bed and Gonta blames himself for not being a gentleman and scaring his partner. However, he is forgiven and they continue practicing.
Gonta's English voice actor, Kaiji Tang, also voices Yasuhiro Hagakure in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc and Koichi Kizakura from Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Gonta the 12th most popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Gonta was voted the 3rd most popular student in the electronic poll, and 14th through post cards.
Himiko Yumeno (夢野 秘密子 Yumeno Himiko) is a student in Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles and a participant of the Killing School Semester featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Himiko has the title Ultimate Magician(超高校級の「マジシャン」 chō kōkō kyū no "majishan" lit. Super High School Level Magician). However, she claims she is a real magic user, thus preferring the title Ultimate Mage(超高校級の「魔法使い」 Chō kōkō-kyū no "mahou-tsukai" lit. Super High School Level Mage).

Himiko Yumeno was a normal talentless high school girl who participated in the 53rd Season of Danganronpa, a famous worldwide reality show made by Team Danganronpa.

During her high school days, Himiko attended Dream Forest Girl's High (夢森女子高校). However, it is unclear if this memory of her was a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it was genuine.

Fabricated Past
After she successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Himiko's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

Prior to being the bearer of the Ultimate Magician's title, Himiko was the self-proclaimed Ultimate Mage, as she constantly insisted that her parlor tricks were real magic. She also claims that she was the youngest person ever chosen by the world magic lovers' society, the Magic Castle, also known as the Hall of Magicians, as the Magician of the Year. However, she says she has been prevented from receiving her reward because of a conspiracy to hide the existence of magic.

While she isn't recognized as a mage, Himiko was awash in clients from all over the world who wanted to hire her as a magician.

According to Himiko, she also suffered from bullying in the past, most likely due to her different type of behavior and communication.

Himiko was an apprentice of a skilled magician who she dubbed as her master, the one that she addressed as the Greatest Mage, in order word, the "Archmage." She was training under him until she even surpassed him as a talented magician, starting to receive an overwhelming number of fans. However, she realized that it was only her popularity that keeps increasing in number, not her master. This fact frustrated her as she stated that she would never surpass him as a magician.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Himiko and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Himiko was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to be a participant, Himiko and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Himiko chose to forget about her Ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Himiko and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Himiko and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

In order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, the true Mastermind decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, was actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Himiko was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Himiko was confused about their current predicament. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived in their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light to make them more suitable for the Killing Game. Himiko and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. She also received the talent and title of Ultimate Magician. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Himiko and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester. Danganronpa V3 CG - Pre-Game Students in their talent outfits (Vita) (1)
Afterwards, once Kaede and Shuichi began to investigate the academy, the duo would find Himiko in the dining hall. She introduced herself to them as the "Ultimate Mage", baffling the pair before saying that she was officially known as the Ultimate Magician. Despite this, Himiko insisted that her magic was actual magic and not parlor tricks and showed her disdain that nobody would believe her. Kaede and Shuichi both encouraged her to use her magic to take them all back to where they originally came from if they wanted them to believe her, but Himiko claimed that her magic isn't all-powerful and that she can only do so much. When describing what she can do to the pair, both concluded that they were just ordinary magic tricks. They eventually left Himiko to explore the rest of the academy.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester
Himiko would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement. While some of the students were worried, Tenko Chabashira, the Ultimate Aikido Master, had immediately taken a liking to Himiko, seeming to believe in her real magic act. Tenko asked her what sort of training she does for her magic, but Himiko didn't reply because it was "too tiring". Afterwards, the Monokubs and Monokuma, the Monokuma Kubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game, much to almost everyone's shock and horror. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.

Attempting the Death Road of 
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Himiko read the rules on her Monopad. A majority of the group wasn't sure what to do after reading these rules and began to panic and argue. Thanks to Kaede's motivational argument, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Himiko along with everyone else immediately followed Gonta's lead, with a hope of finding a way out.

Danganronpa V3 CG - The students despairing at failing the Death Road of Despair (3)
Descending the manhole, Himiko and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Himiko and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Himiko included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Himiko headed to her assigned dorm room along with the others to get some rest.

The First and Additional 
After the first motive and additional motives are presented, the First Blood Perk and the time limit, Himiko unlike almost everyone else, seemed noticeably less worried to the point of not caring whatsoever. It was around this time that Tenko also tried getting closer to Himiko, though she didn't seem to treat Tenko as anything more than an annoyance and found Tenko disturbing obsession with her creepy and awkward.

During the morning of the next day, Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, tried to convince Himiko to believe in Atua, much to Tenko's annoyance and jealousy. Himiko declined, saying that believing in Atua sounds like "too much of a pain". Tenko ecstatically said that Himiko should believe in Neo Aikido instead, but the magician stated that that was a pain as well.

On the 
Danganronpa V3 CG - The students heading to the basementOn the final day as the time limit was drawing closer to its end, Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, asked Himiko to join his strategy meeting, thinking that her "magic" may prove useful when it came to fighting Monokuma. She agreed, and so her, Kaito, Angie, Tenko, Gonta, Maki Harukawa, the Ultimate Child Caregiver, and Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ???, headed down to the game room in the basement to conduct their strategy meeting. Not long after however, Rantaro excused himself to go to the restroom while actually going to investigate the library, knowing of the secret room thanks to his Survivor Perk Monopad. Danganronpa V3 CG - Hidden Camera Photo (2)Himiko would remain in the game room, Gonta would lock himself in the AV room, and Tenko and Kaito would leave the game room to get Rantaro only to join Kaede and Shuichi in storming the library, finding the bookcase in the back of the room closing and Rantaro's corpse not far away from it. Tenko's scream alerted the remaining people in the game room and they came rushing in. As everyone pondered what was going on and whether or not the Killing Game had officially begun or ended, the body discovery announcement played and eventually everyone was in the library, though Himiko didn't seem to be particularly shocked by Rantaro's death.
The First Investigation and Class 
During the investigation of Himiko didn't do anything notable to help the group solve the case. Instead, she questioned Gonta in the game room with Kaito, though she had an absurd and firm belief that the Ultimate Entomologist was the culprit because he had locked himself in the AV room, and threatened to punish him several times with her "magic" if he refused to confess.

Keeping in line with how she had been up until now, Himiko didn't do anything remarkable during the trial either. In fact, she was very quick to want to give up when they were discussing whether or not this really was the perfect crime thanks to Kaede's and Shuichi's hidden cameras. Later on during the trial, when Shuichi was accused of being the culprit thanks to neglecting to mention the camera intervals to Kaede, Himiko was among the students to accuse him. For the rest of the trial, Himiko was very apathetic to the situation even after Kaede had been executed she did not seem to particularly care.

Himiko's Research 
The morning of the next day, Himiko along with everyone else would gather in the dining hall once again and have a normal, but forced the conversation to try and make themselves not think about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. Once Shuichi arrived, Himiko was one of the ones who noticed that he had taken off his hat. Afterwards, the Monokubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that became unlocked was the Ultimate Magician's Research Lab on the first floor of the school, which Himiko herself obviously took an interest in along with Tsumugi Shirogane, the Ultimate Cosplayer, and Shuichi. Himiko remarked that whoever made this lab got magic tricks confused with "actual magic", but was still impressed with the collection nonetheless. Shuichi eventually left the two girls to explore the rest of the academy's new areas.

Angie eventually told Himiko and everyone else to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight that she and Shuichi had discovered earlier. After everyone had gathered, Monokuma appeared and told everyone that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Himiko included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

Danganronpa V3 - Everywhere Parasol PresentIn a bonus scene in Chapter 2, Himiko, Angie, Kirumi, Shuichi, and K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot, joined Tenko for her "celebrity-like vacation" in the pool area.
The Motive 
During that same night, the Monokubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. The next morning, Himiko joined everyone in the dining hall in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. Despite Ryoma Hoshi, the Ultimate Tennis Pro, suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. Once Tenko tried to goad Himiko into enjoying a tripe hot pot, wanting to get closer to her, Angie told her that she doesn't get it and that Himiko isn't hungry. Nevertheless, everyone has tripe hot pot for breakfast

Angie Yonaga hugging Himiko Yumeno
The next morning, everyone gathered in the dining hall once again, only to notice that Angie and Himiko were both praying to Atua, much to Tenko's shock and jealousy. Angie stated that Himiko had abandoned reality to speak to Atua. Tenko accused her of brainwashing Himiko, only to correct her, saying that she had undone Himiko's brainwashing. Despite this, Tenko still urged Himiko to get a hold of herself, only for Angie to instill hers and Atua's authority into Himiko further by pulling her into a hug. Angie reaffirms that she understood Himiko and that she isn't scared, just sad, that she has no one to confide her anxieties to. She reassured Himiko that she wasn't alone and that a handsome god was watching over her. With that, Himiko didn't seem scared anymore and Angie praised Atua once again.

Angie then passed on Atua's "divine message" to everyone else in the dining hall, saying that the academy suffered from the same sins as the outside world and that the only reason everyone was unhappy because their greed was making them treat each other like adversaries. She proposed that everyone cast aside their greed and live within the academy in a peaceful harmony with divine purpose, turning the academy into "heaven on earth". She stated that if they do this, their desire to leave will vanish, and in turn, the killings would also cease. This proposal baffled nearly everyone but Himiko, who stated that Atua's divine messages are never wrong. With Angie's advice, her and Himiko decide to hold a magic show the next morning in order to get everyone to forget about their desire to leave before leaving the dining hall in order to begin the preparations.

Gonta's Insect Meet and 
Everyone during the insect meet and greet
Himiko and Angie remained in the gym throughout the entire day preparing for their magic show with some help from the others, like Kaito. Angie also asked Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, to sew the curtains for their show, completely unaware that Kirumi had ulterior motives while she prepared in the gym. Unbeknownst to them, Gonta, thanks to Kokichi's lies, believed that everyone hated bugs and began kidnapping various students into his Research Lab in order to get them to like bugs. In reality, Kokichi simply wanted to get everyone to watch their motive videos in order make the killing game "more interesting". Himiko and Angie were standing watch just outside the gym when Gonta found them and brought them to his lab, being the last two he had brought after Shuichi, Tenko, K1-B0, Tsumugi, and Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist was detained. Not long after they were brought there, the Insect Meet and Greet began and everyone panicked as insects began to buzz about and wreak havoc. In order to finally end this absurdity, K1-B0 used his recording function in order to convince Gonta that Kokichi had tricked him, much to his anger. With that, Himiko and everyone else barring Gonta and Kokichi took back their motive videos before immediately leaving the Ultimate Entomologist's Research Lab, then heading to bed.

The Amazing Himiko's Magic 
Himiko Yumeno and Angie Yonaga introducing the water tank trick
The very next morning, Himiko and Angie began their magic show, with everyone from Gonta's Insect Meet and Great attending, bar Kokichi. Angie thanked Atua for being with them today, much to Tenko's chagrin, who stated that she should be thanking them first for even showing up. Ignoring Tenko's comment, Angie explained the details of Himiko's trick before the Ultimate Magician jumped into the tank, having only a single minute to escape the water tank before the tank would fill with piranha's. Angie closed the curtains, and Himiko got to work. She used the secret hatch in the tank that led into the interior of the staircase to get out as the timer counted down. While inside the staircase, she opened the hatch on its side to get out backstage and change into a dry set of her clothes.

While Himiko had pulled off her trick flawlessly, everyone else watching grew increasingly worried as the timer continued to count down and Himiko had yet to come out. Gonta couldn't take it anymore and stormed the stage, wanting to save Himiko before the piranhas would fill the tank, much to Angie's disappointment. Once the timer ran out, the piranha's dropped into the tank along with some other large object, though Himiko had yet to show herself. Tenko begged Angie to open the curtains, a plea that she promptly responded to by revealing the tank, however, no one was prepared for what they were about to see. Ryoma's lifeless, handcuffed body drifted within the tank, only having a couple seconds before the piranha's stripped the flesh from his bone, leaving nothing more than a skeleton, the handcuff's, and his belongings behind. Himiko finally revealed herself after this, happy that her trick worked out while completely failing to notice Ryoma's skeleton in the tank until she turned around, stunning her as well.

The Second Investigation and Class 
During the investigation itself, everyone desired to know how Himiko had performed her trick in order to better understand the crime. However, Himiko refused to give a proper answer. Instead, she insisted that her underwater escape act was actual magic instead of normal tricks. The other participants were irritated or baffled at Himiko's absurd stubbornness, but Tenko was extremely quick to defend her and threatened anyone who dared "bully" Himiko. Due to this, Everyone else decided to investigate the stage and set up themselves to understand the true nature of Himiko's trick.

As the Class Trial began, Himiko was quickly suspected by Angie despite how close they had supposedly become. This outraged Tenko greatly, stating that if they were really friends that Angie should believe in Himiko. Angie countered this and stated that she's simply telling them what Atua is telling her and that they should be thankful lest he pours his holy wrath upon them all. Despite Himiko's commitment to her magic act and everyone continuing to suspect her, Tenko proudly declared that no matter what, she would continue believing in Himiko until she took her final breath. This act of faith seemed to put Tenko and Himiko on somewhat good terms.

Eventually, Kirumi was pinned as Ryoma's killer by Shuichi and Himiko listened to her explain her shocking motivations and watch as she was executed by Monokuma. Himiko seemed more distressed here than she had been during Kaede's execution, but Tenko tried to reassure her that she would keep her safe.

Tenko's Research 
The next morning, at Kokichi's request after unveiling Maki's true talent the night prior, Himiko along with everyone else barring Maki paid a visit to the "Ultimate Child Caregiver's Research Lab" only to discover various weapons all throughout the lab, proving that Maki was, in fact, the Ultimate Assassin, not a child caregiver. Everyone grew extremely wary of Maki, fearing that the talent of a killer would be a threat to everyone else's survival, but Kaito reassured them that he would take care of her. After the Monokubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy.

Chabashira's training with Yumeno
One of the places that became unlocked was Tenko's Research Lab in the courtyard. Himiko, Tenko, and Shuichi were the first to explore it, with Tenko being increasingly ecstatic to finally have her own lab claiming that no school is complete without a dojo. She announced that sparing here would be very enjoyable before grabbing Shuichi and throwing him down on the tatami mat hard. While he obviously didn't appreciate the gesture, Tenko was able to determine that Shuichi lacked self-esteem and as a result, lacked strength. She stated that while he had more confidence in himself than before, he still questioned himself. She was seemingly able to tell when her sparring partner is burdened by doubt, as she hit every nail on the head. Tenko then asked Himiko if she wanted to combine her magic with her own Neo Aikido. Himiko didn't even get a chance to fully reply before being thrown down on the tatami mat hard, just like Tenko did to Shuichi. From doing so, Tenko determined that Himiko didn't show her emotions all the time because she was too shy and claimed that it was a waste as she claimed that Himiko had "the richest heart of all". She recommended Himiko to try Neo-Akido, as it would help her with her shyness, but she was too irritated with Tenko to care about what she was saying and instead threatened to turn her into a toad with her magic.

Later on, Himiko would gather with everyone else in the dining hall in order to inspect the new Flashback Light that Shuichi found. Upon using it, everyone remembered what seemed to be their own funeral, much to the student's confusion. Kaito reassured everyone that there's no way the funeral could be real considering they were all still here and alive. His small speech seemed to work, as everyone perked back up, enjoyed a small meal, then headed back to their dorms.

Angie's Student 
That same night, Angie went to talk with Himiko, Tsumugi, Tenko, and K1-B0 in hopes of converting them all to her ideology and create a Student Council with the sole intent of ending the Killing Game while also throwing away their own desire to leave the academy. All four of them were "brainwashed" by Angie and became dependent on Atua.

The converted Himiko gathered with everyone in the gymnasium the very next morning at the Monokubs request. The participants were presented with the third motive, the Necronomicon, and were told that they would be able to bring back someone who had died already as a transfer student. This motive baffled the students, saying that there's no way the dead could come back to life. However, Angie seemed to embrace the motive, saying the "corpses" so far may have just been very accurate imitations to make the real people seem dead. Some of the students argued that there's no way that's possible, but Himiko seemed intent on listening to what Angie had to say. She then listened to Gonta say that more letters were added to the rock in the courtyard, deducing that perhaps the four people who had died are actually alive and wrote that message. Angie praised Gonta and, like Himiko before him, pulled him into a hug. She instilled hers and Atua's authority into him by reassuring him that he was not alone and that Atua was like a gentle grandmother that always kept him safe, effectively playing off of Gonta's desire for a motherly figure.

The Ultimate Academy Student Council reformed
Angie then said that Gonta should join the Student Council, wanting to make him feel needed. Himiko, and Tsumugi both requited this feeling. As a result, the Ultimate Entomologist did not hesitate for even a second if it meant he could be useful to everyone and joined Angie's group. Shuichi however, was confused as to what Angie meant by "student council", but K1-B0 replied by saying that Angie summoned himself, Himiko, Tenko, and Tsumugi last night in order to discuss how to eradicate the Killing Game. As a result, this group of students ended up forming the "Ultimate Academy Student Council" with Angie as their president. The "brainwashed" members listened to Angie completely and without question, stating that her will is Atua's will and as a result, she cannot be wrong. Angie took the Necronomicon and told everyone else to "leave it to the student council".

In reality, Angie trying to unify the group with her student council only ended up causing discord between the student council and the non-student council members, such as during that same night when the student council ridiculed Maki for being out at nighttime. The very next morning, the two split parties came into conflict yet again after finding out that the student council had blocked off the manhole in the boiler room with a large rock. Angie even went as far as to destroy a Flashback Light from the Monokubs, wanting to quell any desire to leave no matter the cost. Himiko and the others supported her one-hundred percent despite their extreme methods, having no malicious intent for the group, just wanting to stop another killing from happening by any means necessary.

The Summoning 
That same evening, Himiko went to Angie's Lab in hopes of speaking to her as she prepared her ritual. However, the Ultimate Magician ended up walking into Shuichi, Maki, and Tenko trying to convince Angie not to go through with her ritual. As it turned out, Tenko was never actually brainwashed by Angie and simply pretended to be just so that she could keep Himiko safe. Their persuasion failed, and Angie all wished them a safe trip back to their dorms, where they finally ran into Himiko. She and Angie talked and told each other that Atua loved them, but Tenko had finally had enough. The Ultimate Aikido Master urged Himiko to get a hold of herself one last time, saying that if she couldn't even see that she had been brainwashed that she wasn't a real mage at all, which seemed to greatly irritate Himiko. Tenko didn't mind however and told her to get mad and express herself, but Shuichi stopped her. Tenko then realized what she had just said to Himiko and apologized for yelling at her.

The next morning, Himiko headed to Angie's Lab yet again, only to find it locked. She knocked on the door hoping to get a reply, but Angie never answered. Shuichi, Maki, Tenko, and Kaito arrived the next morning with hopes of trying to persuade Angie yet again, but Himiko told them that Angie wouldn't come out of her Research Lab. This worried Shuichi greatly, but Kokichi overheard the situation and used his lock-picking skills to break into Angie's lab. Shuichi's worries were confirmed as Angie's corpse lies in the center of the four wax effigies in a pool of her own blood.

Everyone else who was not present gathered in Angie's Research Lab following the body discovery announcement. All the student council members mourned her passing, wondering just how and why she was killed. Himiko meanwhile, was rendered depressed and silenced at her friend's passing. Korekiyo suggested that they perform a seance to commune with Angie's spirit, a suggestion that Himiko, Tenko, Kokichi, and K1-B0 agreed to, completely unaware that the Ultimate Anthropologist had sinister ulterior motives. When Korekiyo stated that the seance needed to be conducted in a dark place, Himiko immediately suggested using the middle vacant room, which later made Himiko a suspect in the trial due to Korekiyo having trapped all the empty rooms in preparations for another murder.

The 
Spirit Summoning Ritual Preparation (3)
Shuichi would later replace K1-B0 for the seance due to the others wondering if a robot would really work for it, much to the Ultimate Robot's dismay. Korekiyo then said that they would need a spirit medium for Angie's spirit to go into and clarified that it would work best with a girl. Himiko offered to do it before Tenko offered instead, saying that Himiko wouldn't be able to say goodbye to Angie if she was the medium. Himiko was silent at this, but Tenko said one last thing before becoming the medium, that she should keep her chin up and live life facing forward and survive with her and everyone else. She tried to reassure Himiko that expressing her feelings was perfectly natural and that she would feel better if she did. With that, Himiko and Tenko seemed to be on good terms once again, neither aware that these would be Tenko's last words to Himiko due to no one aside from Korekiyo knowing the true nature of the seance.

Tenko lied in a position similar to child's pose in the center of a circle of salt inscribed with magical symbols. A cage, cloth, and statue are placed on top of her to complete the ritual. Unbeknownst to Tenko, Korekiyo hid a kama, a traditional Japanese weapon similar to a sickle, under the cloth covering the cage that would later be responsible for her death. The students then turn off the lights in the room and sang together as Tenko prayed and attempted to commune with Angie's spirit. However, Korekiyo, using the magic circle to find his way to the loose floorboard he had prepared the night prior, stomped on it during the ritual, triggering a seesaw effect and sending Tenko flying off the ground. Her neck is pierced by the kama above the cage, killing her right before everyone's eyes while they were unaware of it. Korekiyo then makes his way back to his corner, acting as if nothing had happened, and finishing the song before asking if the "caged child" was Angie Yonaga. Tenko Chabashira's DeathWhen no answer was given, everyone turned the lights back on in confusion and took away the cloth, and statue, only to find Tenko lying in a pool of her own blood. Himiko, completely shocked, ran over to her and threw the cage off of her, screaming Tenko's name, but it was too late as she had already been killed. Himiko was far too shocked to say anything and everyone else aside from Korekiyo was dumbfounded as the second body discovery announcement plays.
The Third Class 
Himiko was increasingly more agitated during this trial that she had been in any of the previous trials due to losing two people who considered her a friend and never being able to properly requite those feelings to Tenko. When Kokichi stated that Tenko's death was meaningless and that they had to solve the mystery behind Angie's murder, Himiko snapped at him for making light of her "friend's" death. Kaito reassured Himiko that they would uncover Tenko's death and that he wouldn't let anyone say that her death didn't matter.

As they continued to discuss the cause of Tenko's death, Maki speculated that she could have killed herself, but Himiko denied it, choosing to believe in Tenko's final words. Shuichi decided to believe in Tenko as well and lied by saying that she had died instantly, giving her no time to get rid of the weapon used to kill her, a lie that Maki acknowledged. Eventually, Himiko was brought up as a potential suspect due to suggesting the middle room for the seance which just so happened to be rigged for the seesaw. Hearing this, the Ultimate Magician finally stopped caring about everything once again, rendered too depressed at the loss of her two closest friends and now being accused of being their killer. Shuichi however, could relate to Himiko very well and understand what she was going through as he had a very similar experience with Kaede. The Ultimate Detective was able to clear her of suspicion thanks to Kokichi's testimony of stepping through a loose floorboard in the other empty room, effectively meaning that every room was trapped. As a result, there was no reason to suspect just Himiko anymore. Shuichi tried to encourage Himiko, saying that if she gave up now she would be betraying Tenko's and Angie's memory and that everyone here was trying to keep their promises to the dead. Upon hearing this, Himiko's resolve had finally solidified, vowing to no longer state how much of a pain everything was and that she would fight alongside everyone and survive until the very end.

The group continued to discuss Tenko's murder until eventually, Shuichi was able to pin Korekiyo as her killer. After some arguing, Korekiyo acknowledged the claim, saying that Tenko's death ultimately didn't matter because the true culprit that they needed to search for was the culprit behind Angie's murder, much to Himiko's annoyance. However, Korekiyo was unaware that the clues left behind in Angie's murder, the piece of bloody duct tape and the dried blood on the loose floorboard in the seance room would be key pieces of evidence linking both murders together and as a result, pinning him as the culprit of both murders, not just Tenko's.

Losing 
Following the trial's conclusion, Korekiyo revealed himself to be a serial killer whose goal was to grant his deceased sister one-hundred female friends in the afterlife and that he was very close to that number. He claimed that every girl in the school barring Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor, and Maki had the potential to become "friends" for his sister. Korekiyo stated that Tenko's earnest and pure heart made her the perfect candidate to send to his sister and wondered how Himiko couldn't have liked her. Himiko however, could not accept this explanation, angrily asking why Tenko and Angie had to die for something so unfair. Korekiyo replied that there is no such thing as a death that can be accepted and wondered how they all would live a life that faced death before being dragged to his execution.

Himiko crying post the third trial
Himiko could do nothing but remain silent following Korekiyo's execution, still rendered far too depressed over the loss of her two friends. Everyone else seemed to agree that she needed time alone. Kokichi however, decided that he would finally tear down the wall she insisted on keeping up, asking her why she was still trying so hard to hold herself back. Upon hearing this, Himiko was reminded of Tenko's final words to her about it is perfectly fine to show your emotions. Himiko could no longer hold it together and burst into tears, telling Angie and Tenko how lonely she was but that she couldn't join them just yet. She continued to cry for a very long time, everyone else being drawn in and crying as well.

Gonta carries Yumeno
In the end, Himiko cried so much that she ended up falling asleep. Gonta, with his kindhearted and courteous heart, decided to pick her up and carry her back to her room. Everyone else remarked how she must've finally felt better to let everything out as she slept.

Himiko's 
The very next morning following the third Class Trial, Himiko gathered with everyone in the dining hall yet again. The group became disheartened to see how many people they had lost up until now, but Himiko was incredibly more loud and cheerful than she had been before thanks to her newfound resolve that she had obtained from the loss of her two deceased friends. Monokuma then showed up along with his Kubs to hand out the next set of random items to unlock more areas with, along with a card key that according to Monophanie would be the next motive, though Kokichi stole it and ran off.

Himiko went to investigate with all the others around the academy, choosing to search outside the main building. However, she couldn't help but stare at Tenko's Research Lab, still missing her dearly. When she caught Shuichi looking at her, she told him to stop or else she'd end up "becoming even more beautiful". Shuichi was confused as to what she meant, but Himiko ended up blushing at her own compliment.

Himiko later regathered with everyone else in the dining hall to investigate yet another Flashback Light. Once used on themselves, everyone remembered the meteorites that impacted the Earth and that it was described as being very similar to the meteor impact that wiped out the dinosaurs millions of years ago. They also remembered basic details of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project saying that mankind deserved damnation, and the Gofer Project itself.

Danganronpa V3 - Dark Belt Present
Danganronpa V3 - Dark Belt Present

In a bonus event in Chapter 4, Himiko was trying to learn on how to "live life facing forward" just like how Tenko advised her before she met her demise. Later, Shuichi and Gonta helped her to train together in Tenko's Research Lab, and Shuichi was glad that Himiko became more cheerful than she used to, saying that Tenko's feelings finally reached her.

Neo World 
The group preparing to go into the Neo World Program
A couple days later, Miu would gather everyone, Himiko included, in the computer room on the fourth floor. The Ultimate Inventor explained to everyone how she had been working on the massive computer for the past few days and reprogrammed it into a "world without Monokuma or the Killing Game". In reality, she was actually plotting her own murder plan in order to escape the academy, believing that the world needed her and her genius. Although Himiko and the others were skeptical at first, everyone agreed that it would be best to investigate the virtual world after hearing about a supposed secret of the outside world from Monokuma.

Himiko sat down in her chair and put the cords in her own headset, making sure to listen to Miu's explanation. In order for Himiko to remind herself which cord goes in which socket, she spoke out loud that "Right is the hand you hold your chopsticks in". While it was not her intention to do so, she ended up confusing Gonta so much that he ended up putting the cords in the wrong socket, triggering an avatar error when he logged in which would ensure none of his memories of ever being in the virtual world would be transferred over to his real body upon logging out again.

Once Himiko logged in with the others, she was disappointed with the graphics of the virtual world, wanting the face of a supermodel instead of what her avatar had. Once Miu logged in, Himiko listened to her explain more aspects about the virtual world such as their avatars senses being connected to their real bodies, that objects were unbreakable, and showed them all the map of the world. Everyone then headed to the chapel, making use of a signboard to cross the river. After reaching the chapel, everyone decided to explore the virtual world in its entirety in order to find the supposed secret Monokuma was referring to. Himiko remained with Maki, K1-B0, and Miu at the chapel in order to investigate, but Miu followed the other group and threw the signboard in the river to ensure that both groups would remain separate. As time passed and everyone continued to explore and investigate, Himiko along with all the others in the virtual world heard a loud crashing sound. Upon leaving the chapel to investigate with Maki and K1-B0, they found Miu's avatar unconscious beside the chapel. The trio became increasingly worried and attempted to reunite with the other group only to find the signboard used as a bridge gone thanks to none other than the Ultimate Inventor herself. They were still able to speak with the group exploring the mansion across the river and tell them about what had happened, worrying them as well. The other group was able to find the signboard used as a bridge in the river and place it down as a bridge once again, allowing everyone to regather and log out to make sure that Miu was okay. However, Himiko and everyone else was shocked to find Miu dead in her own chair, dying from the shock of having her avatar killed. As everyone stared at Miu's corpse dumbfounded, the investigation had begun for a fourth time at the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles.

The Fourth Class 
During the fourth Class Trial, Himiko valiantly defended Gonta once he was called out as the culprit by Kokichi. She didn't think Gonta was lying due to how much he was defending himself and that he simply "didn't remember" because he was bad with computers. While she was technically right, hers and nearly everyone else's efforts amounted to naught, as Kokichi and Shuichi both proved that Gonta was able to commit the crime and that he didn't remember murdering Miu due to him mixing up the consciousness and memory chords in his headset. In reality, Gonta had been manipulated by Kokichi after being shown the secret of the outside world, falling into so much despair that he thought being dead was being better than being alive. Himiko cried for Gonta after he was executed, considering him a great, kindhearted person and a dear friend. When Kokichi exclaimed that he revealed in everyone's pain and suffering, Himiko appeared noticeably disturbed by his deranged behavior and instead rushed over to Kaito's side with the others after being knocked down by the Ultimate Supreme Leader. Once Kaito began coughing up blood, Himiko became concerned like everyone else did, but he tried to reassure her and everyone else that he was fine before leaving the trial grounds.

Down to the Final 
The very next morning, Himiko gathered with everyone else in the dining hall. Everyone else was obviously still worried about Kaito, but he once again tried to reassure them that he was fine and they all ate breakfast together. After eating, Kaito wondered just where Kokichi had gone off to after his monologue yesterday. Himiko and the others became tense and frightened at the mere mention of the Ultimate Supreme Leader, but everyone said that no one had seen him since yesterday. Monokuma showed up after not too long and passed out the last set of items to unlock new areas in the academy with.

One of the new areas that became unlocked was the Ultimate Astronaut's Research Lab, which Himiko explored with Kaito, Shuichi, Maki, and Tsumugi. Aside from a Gofer Project participant list, which had a large majority of it blacked out, nothing of notable use was gained from Kaito's lab, much to his disappointment.

After everyone had uncovered all the new areas, Himiko gathered in the dining hall with the others at Tsumugi's request, but not to discuss a new Flashback Light. Instead, she informed everyone that the message in the courtyard had been completed and that it now said, "This world is mine. Kokichi Oma". Kaito just wrote it off as Kokichi’s prank, not taking the final message seriously whatsoever. Everyone else seemed to agree with him, though wondered just where Kokichi had gone to and wondered if he took the Flashback Light seeing that none of the others had found it yet.

Clearing the Death Road of 
The next morning, after Kaito realized that he didn't have much time left due to his illness, declared to Himiko and the others that they were all going to fight Monokuma. He wanted to make good on his promise that he'd get everyone out alive, but needed their help if they were all going to get out of here. He said that now was their chance to finally fight back because the Monokubs were gone, meaning the Exisals would no longer be a threat to them. Himiko was still unsure however due to the academy being completely under his control and having numerous spares. Hearing this, Kaito asked them all if they were fine with the way things are now and that if they weren’t, then they had to fight. Eventually, as more and more people became determined by Kaito’s speech, Himiko also agreed. Everyone prepared mentally to fight Monokuma that same night.

As planned, Himiko and everyone else gathered in the gymnasium at nighttime, with Kaito bringing a vast assortment of weapons from Maki’s Research Lab. While everyone was preparing for battle, Kokichi suddenly appeared as well and brought with him Miu's memento, the electrohammers. He offered them to his classmates claiming that he wanted to end the Killing Game as well, but Maki was tired of his deceptive nature and threatened to strangle him once again, asking him just what he was scheming. Maki was eventually stopped by Kaito and the others, dropping Kokichi on the floor. The Ultimate Supreme Leader told everyone that he wouldn't interfere with them any longer before leaving the gym, along with Miu's memento for them to use. Himiko and the others were still skeptical, thinking that the hammers might have been trapped, but still had to explore every possibility. With Miu’s memento in hand, everyone headed to the Death Road of Despair. As they stood before the tunnel, Himiko and the others remarked that they would finally be able to fulfill Kaede’s wish and escape this Killing Game, making everyone even more determined. With that determination fueling them forward, they headed into the tunnel.

Danganronpa V3 - The remaining survivors standing in front of the exit door
After crossing the Death Road of Despair with Miu’s electrohammers, they came across a large metal hatch which they opened up and discovered the apparent state of the outside world, ruined and destroyed by meteorites, shocking everyone. Himiko and the others all became unable to breathe and lost consciousness not long after. An unprecedented amount of time afterward, the hatch closed and everyone woke up. Kokichi appeared and congratulated everyone for discovering the truth of the outside world. He revealed everything to them, that the world was in ruins, and that they were secretly on a giant spaceship that acted as an ark for the last sixteen survivors of humanity, or rather last "seven" survivors of humanity. Afterwards, Kokichi proclaimed himself as the leader of the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project and the one who let Monokuma into the ark, effectively declaring himself as the Mastermind of the Killing School Semester. Everyone was skeptical at first until Kokichi used a universal remote control to make the Exisals do his bidding, further convincing the remaining survivors that he was, in fact, the Mastermind. Kaito once again becomes outraged with Kokichi and attempted to punch him yet again. However, Kokichi easily incapacitated the Ultimate Astronaut using the Exisals. Maki attempted to attack him as well but was stopped by Shuichi. Afterwards, Kokichi requested Shuichi to give him back the Exisal Hangar's alarm remote back, a request that he reluctantly complies with for Kaito's own safety. Kokichi declared that everyone was free to do whatever they pleased before leaving them all in a state of despair and taking Kaito hostage in the Exisal Hangar. Himiko could do nothing but cry at the very idea that they were the last seven survivors of humanity and that they had been killing each other for nothing. They all headed back to their dorm rooms in a state of utter despair.

Newfound 
After an entire day passed with nothing happening, Maki finally gathered everyone in the dining hall after discovering a new Flashback Light. Himiko wondered what the point was in even using it since Kokichi already revealed the whole truth to everyone. She even went so far as to ask Maki for a quick death and thought that Tenko might not mind if she died now. Maki didn't mind but still insisted that they use the Flashback Light, stating that even if they hoped for a quick death that they should not leave any stones unturned. Himiko and the others somberly agreed finally and used the Flashback Light to remember the final truth. They remembered that they were all students of Hope's Peak Academy, the symbols of hope itself. This Flashback Light also made them remember that Kokichi was a Remnant of Despair and the leader of the cult trying to stop the Gofer Project. Everyone's resolve and determination came back with this new memory, vowing to stop Kokichi, save Kaito, and end the Killing Game once and for all. However, everyone's Electrohammers are still without power, as a result, everyone is forced to wait until the next morning until they are fully charged.

K1-B0 spotting Himiko Yumeno walking into the Hanger
At some point during that same day for reasons unknown, Himiko went to the Cyber Courtyard for reasons unknown. Kaito saw her and spoke to her through the small bathroom window, surprising her. He requested that she bring him a disassembled crossbow from Maki's Research Lab. Himiko was reluctant at first, but Kaito made it clear that he wasn't planning to kill anyone with it, to which she agreed to bring him the crossbow through the bathroom window. Unbeknownst to her, K1-B0 bore witness to her carrying the black bag with the disassembled crossbow into the hangar. She gave him the crossbow along with one arrow, then promptly left the Cyber Courtyard and prepared to storm it with her fellow classmates the next morning

As planned the very next morning, Himiko would join her fellow classmates in storming the Exisal hangar, only to find a body crushed beyond recognition underneath the hydraulic press, the only clue as to who the victim could be being Kaito's sleeve where-as Kokichi is still missing. Everyone is horrified at the thought of having lost Kaito as the investigation begins. During the investigation, Himiko became insistent that Shuichi not speak to her, not wanting to be found as suspicious due to aiding Kaito with the crossbow.

Confusion and 
During the Class Trial, Himiko along with everyone else was still confused about their current state of beginning a Class Trial with two missing people, but Monokuma reassured them that it's fine and that the one missing person is "on standby in the back". When that supposed missing person arrives riding an Exisal, and supposedly pretends to be Kaito before revealing themselves as Kokichi, Himiko, along with everyone else, believed that Kaito must have been the victim. Himiko is later accused of bringing the crossbow into the hangar, an accusation that she denied out of fear of being accused until both K1-B0 and Shuichi made it clear that she did in fact bring a crossbow into the Cyber Courtyard. Himiko panicked at this and tried to pin the crime on Maki Harukawa until she eventually came clean and admitted that she brought the crossbow because Kaito asked her to. She apologized to Maki as well for accusing her, an apology that she accepted and clarified by saying Himiko could not have used the crossbow because she never taught her how to assemble one. Himiko later becomes shocked when the supposed person inside of the Exisal (Which is thought to be Kokichi at the time) tells her that he likes her, though this was likely just a joke.

Later on in the trial, when the voice coming out of the Exisal changed to match Kaito's again, Himiko along with K1-B0, and Tsumugi believed that the victim could have been Kokichi and that the one riding the Exisal is Kaito. Although Shuichi and Maki thought that they disproved this claim, it is later revealed that Himiko was originally right near the end of the trial and that the one inside the Exisal was in fact Kaito. Himiko, along with everyone else, is rendered depressed, stunned and silenced at the fact that Kaito ended up being the culprit of Kokichi's murder. However, he reassured everyone to smile, send him off in style, and that he won't accept their tears before proudly accepting his execution, but choosing to die on his own terms and not Monokuma's.

Everyone exercising
After the trial concluded, Himiko would reunite with Shuichi, Maki, and Tsumugi in the courtyard, intent on ending the Killing Game for Kaito's sake and carrying on his will. They all begin training, but it was cut short by K1-B0, who had lost his "connector" to the outside world and thus; was determined to destroy Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles and end the Killing Game himself.

Uncovering the 
Himiko and everyone else was shocked and frightened to discover the academy coming under fire from the Ultimate Robot, suddenly being able to fly and shoot lasers. The group ran to the front of the school to try and get K1-B0's attention. He eventually hovered down towards them, stopping his assault, and asked him what they wanted and to keep this brief. When asked, K1-B0 said that no matter where they go, Despair will be right around the corner. As a result, he was determined to destroy the school even if it meant that he himself and everyone else would die. Shuichi was eventually able to turn his way of thinking around, but only until dawn. K1-B0 threatened Himiko and everyone else that if they could not find the truth behind this Killing Game before dawn breaks, he would continue his destruction of the academy. Monokuma and the rebuilt Monokubs in their respective Exisals eventually showed up to try and stop his assault, declaring that the Killing Game cannot be ended. With that, Himiko and the others ran into the school for cover while K1-B0 tried to hold the Exisals off until dawn.

During the final investigation, Himiko along with Shuichi went inside Rantaro's Research Lab thanks to K1-B0's assistance. At first, the room was ambiguous and it was difficult to judge what his talent was based on the room's appearance. After solving the vault puzzle in the back of the room thanks to Kokichi's messages that he had left behind, Himiko and Shuichi managed to find a USB drive that they plugged into the laptop. It was then that they both discovered Rantaro's talent as the Ultimate Survivor via a recording made by the Rantaro before he had lost his memory to the Rantaro after he had lost his memory. Himiko and Shuichi were both baffled at this recording, with Himiko wondering why Rantaro would do something so stupid. Himiko split up from Shuichi at this point in order to investigate Rantaro's room.

Himiko would later regather with Tsumugi, Maki, and Shuichi in the library annoyed that everyone decided to meet up without her. When Shuichi asked her if she found anything of importance in Rantaro's room, Himiko told him to shut up simply because she didn't want to be seen as useless due to not being able to find anything. Monotaro showed up in his Exisal and attempted to stop their investigation, but K1-B0 immediately rushed to his friend's rescue, knocking the Exisal to the side and binding it in the rubble to keep it from moving for a while. K1-B0 then opened up the hidden room by using his laser cannon, blowing the door to smithereens. Finally, all the survivors were able to enter the hidden room, hoping to discover the Mastermind. Within the hidden room itself, they discovered one of the overseers of the Killing Game and the apparent source of all Monokuma's, Motherkuma. Motherkuma claimed that it had the ability to produce new Monokuma's, a claim that Himiko and the remaining survivors aside from K1-B0 promptly tested by asking it to birth a new Monokuma (With the exception of Tsumugi, who said "make" instead of "birth" as to not give away her identity). Motherkuma refused, stating that it cannot birth a new Monokuma for someone that doesn't love it. In the end, while Shuichi was able to find two very important clues, the group as a whole were not able to get anything useful out of Motherkuma. Himiko insisted that she stay behind, promising Shuichi, Maki, and Tsumugi that she would find a clue, wanting to be seen as useful for everyone.

Shuichi, Maki, and Tsumugi all left the hidden room, choosing to trust in Himiko. However, during K1-B0's fight with the Exisal, the path back into the hidden room became barred by rubble, trapping Himiko inside. Everyone else became increasingly concerned about the Ultimate Magician's well being, but chose to trust in her and that she would be alright before continuing their own separate investigations. In reality, Himiko could escape from the hidden room via a secret passage that connected to the girls bathroom on the first floor. She would then head up to the second floor and discover Shuichi in a classroom, investigating a device made to create Flashback Lights. However, upon opening the door to the classroom, the device shut off and the room returned to normal. Shuichi asked Himiko how she managed to escape the hidden room. She told him that it was all thanks to her magic before the whole building began shaking again, to which she clarified that it was due to the fact that the hidden room and the first-floor girls bathroom were connected. Intrigued, Shuichi went with her to investigate that exact bathroom and found that she was right. This fact alone would end up being a crucial piece of evidence used in discovering the true identity of the Mastermind.

Upon leaving the bathroom with Shuichi, they ran into Maki, who was initially very confused as to why they both left the girls bathroom together, but eventually shrugged it off and believed that Shuichi wouldn't go into the girls bathroom without purpose. Shuichi told both girls to go find Tsumugi and meet up with him in the courtyard, believing that he finally knows what to do in order to end this Killing Game. Himiko and Maki went to find Tsumugi, but upon heading out to the courtyard, they overheard Shuichi saying that they were all going to hold a Class Trial. Everyone, including K1-B0 and Monokuma was increasingly confused at this suggestion, but Shuichi reassured everyone that this Class Trial would end the Killing Game for good. Hearing this, Himiko, Tsumugi, Maki, and a reluctant K1-B0 agreed with the Ultimate Detective's suggestion and made their way to the Shrine of Judgement. They had to wait for K1-B0 to take off his equipment, once he returned, he apologized to everyone for his behavior but then noticed the Bug Vac Maki was holding and examined it. Thanks to K1-B0's zoom in function, Himiko, and the others were able to discover the academy's nanoscopic security cameras, the Nanokumas. With this new clue in hand, Himiko descended to the trial grounds with everyone else with the sole intent of ending this Killing Game once and for all

The Final Class 
Himiko, along with fellow survivors Tsumugi, K1-B0, and Maki, at Shuichi's recommendation, decided to re-open Rantaro's case after discovering new truths related to his murder. Once Shuichi revealed Rantaro's talent as the Ultimate Survivor, and proved that Kaede did in fact not murder him and was executed unjustly, he realized that the Mastermind had to be one of them and said as much to the remaining survivors. Himiko however, refused to acknowledge this claim, believing that they were all friends who swore to fight together. Nevertheless, to uncover the Mastermind of this Killing Game, Shuichi recommended that they all double-check everyone's alibis during Rantaro's murder, which finally allowed Shuichi to hone in on Tsumugi as the true culprit and Mastermind of the Killing School Semester.

Himiko along with the other survivors became confused and shocked that the Ultimate Cosplayer could have gone through with such a plan while she denied the claim vehemently. Shuichi however, makes it very clear that Tsumugi was the only person who could have murdered Rantaro by using the hidden passageway in the girls bathroom that Himiko discovered, which also led into the hidden room that connected to the library. Tsumugi attempted to pin the blame on K1-B0 since he was not present for when they interacted with Motherkuma, but Shuichi is quick to call her out on not giving the command of "birth" which would have triggered Motherkuma's voice recognition software and created another Monokuma. Although Himiko tried to reassure her to argue, not wanting the Mastermind to be a fellow comrade, it was for nothing. Her along with the others watch as Tsumugi dropped her act and re-introduced herself as "Junko Enoshima the 53rd".

Himiko wasn't sure what to believe, she asked "Junko" if she was Tsumugi, their friend who survived with them. Tsumugi, now cosplaying as Junko told Himiko and everyone else that "Tsumugi Shirogane" was just a cover for her and that they were all fools to think of her as a comrade. Tsumugi then went on to state that she simply wanted to reproduce her own Killing Game and that there was nobody watching. Shuichi however, did not believe this claim due to their contradicting memories, as well as the facts regarding Kokichi and Rantaro that also conflicted with their memories of the Hope's Peak Academy Saga. As a result, Shuichi was able to determine that everyone's memories of being students at Hope's Peak Academy, The Gofer Project, and shouldering their friends and families burdens as mankind's last hope, was all a false memory planted into their brains by the Flashback Light. Tsumugi then revealed that everything they remembered about attending Hope's Peak Academy and the outside world being destroyed was a lie and that the Flashback Lights were actually tools to implant new memories, not tools to help you remember. What the participants remembered about Kokichi being a part of the Remnants of Despair was a lie as well, much to everyone's shock. Himiko is exceptionally shocked by all this news and refuses to believe it at first, wondering how everything they believed to be their reality could possibly be fake.

In reality, the circumstances behind their Killing Game were far crueler. After proving her talent fully as the Ultimate Cosplayer by cosplaying as the participants of the Killing School Life and the Killing School Trip, Tsumugi revealed that everything that took place in the Hope's Peak Academy Saga was nothing more than fictional events from a very popular anime and video game franchise known as Danganronpa. She also revealed that their entire Killing Game had been broadcasted to a very peaceful world that was completely obsessed with Killing Games, essentially revealing that everything they've been through as a reality-TV show and "Ultimate Real Fiction". She told them all that she herself was a part of Team Danganronpa, a company that makes the "finest killing entertainment" and that everyone loves their work.

Himiko, along with the other survivors, were quick to oppose Tsumugi and Monokuma, but they both revealed that the participants of the Killing School Semester are also "fictional characters", whose memory, personality, feelings, and talent were all fabricated by the Flashback Lights in order to provide exciting characters for the Killing Game. To back up her claim, Tsumugi showed Shuichi's, Kaede's, and Kaito's supposed audition videos for the Killing Game, showing that they were all very twisted or outright depressed people that, like the audience watching, were obsessed with Danganronpa to the point where they willingly participated in the Killing Game. Himiko became shocked at this sudden revelation and subsequently fell into Despair along with the others, unsure of what to do now that everything so far had been revealed to be lies.

Hope or 
K1-B0 reassured everyone not to lose Hope, stating that that was what his "inner voice" was telling him and that if this was the "Ultimate Real Fiction", then not all of it could be fictional and that there must be something they could do. Tsumugi corrected him and said that the voice K1-B0 had been hearing this entire time was actually the voice of the people watching this Killing Game, an audience survey. She continued to state that he was nothing more than an interactive communication device and camera for the viewers to interact with and participate in the game themselves. Despite this, K1-B0 refused to give up on Hope and stated that the people in the outside world don't want Despair. Tsumugi meanwhile refused to give up on Despair and stated that a world that enjoys killings could not possibly desire Hope. In true Danganronpa fashion, they decided to settle this with one final, special vote where K1-B0 represented Hope and Tsumugi represented Despair. K1-B0 and Maki were both willing to sacrifice themselves if it meant that Hope could win and Shuichi and Himiko could live despite the fact that there was supposedly nothing left for them in the outside world.

Shuichi however, saw through the charade and cut in, saying that neither choice was correct and that choosing Hope would do nothing but cause the Killing Game to continue, which he and K1-B0 were able to deduce thanks to the late Rantaro's circumstances. Because of this, Shuichi decided to stop playing along and abandoned his vote, hoping to end Danganronpa once and for all by willingly sacrificing his own life, much to Tsumugi's and Monokuma's chagrin. Eventually, Shuichi convinced Himiko to abandon her vote. She declared that even if she was a fictional character, her life was real. She called the audience disgusting for enjoying watching lives get crushed and exclaims that she would not let them use her life for some show. Himiko declared that she would use her life as a weapon and vowed to Tenko, Angie, and everyone else who had been victimized to end Danganronpa once and for all. Eventually, Maki and K1-B0 also abandoned their vote, uniting against Tsumugi and Monokuma even if it cost them their lives.

In a last-ditch effort to keep Danganronpa going, K1-B0 was taken over by the audience. Seeing this, Tsumugi laughed, proud to show that the audience did not wish for Danganronpa to end and explained that they supposedly deleted K1-B0's personality that kept getting in the way. K1-B0 is able to take brief control again and tells his fellow survivors that their choice was not the wrong one and that they can change the world before being taken over again. Himiko told K1-B0 to hang in there, but Tsumugi states that what they're doing is pointless. Shuichi refuses to give up, still exclaiming that he will end Danganronpa and that their lives are not just show-things for their amusement.

Confident that his voice reached the outside world through K1-B0, Shuichi and everyone else abandoned their vote. Tsumugi however, bent the rules one last time and abandoned her vote too, which she revealed after everyone else did. Shuichi, Maki, and Himiko are immediately confused and worried as to why she abandoned her vote as well. Tsumugi stated that if they're going to risk their lives to end Danganronpa, then she would risk her life to make it continue. Tsumugi was confident that Danganronpa would continue after abandoning her vote, meaning only K1-B0's vote would have any power as he was still being controlled by the outside world. She even went as far as to describe a new plot-line for him in the next Killing Game.

Himiko's 
When Monokuma displayed the results of the final voting, Tsumugi became shocked to discover that no one had voted, proving that the audience does not want Danganronpa to continue. Tsumugi panicked and tried to make everyone reconsider, but it was no use as the monitors all turned off, the audience no longer showing any interest. Tsumugi, upon realizing that Danganronpa was indeed over and done with, promptly lost all of her hope in living as she denied a world without Danganronpa, but had not prepared a proper Punishment before-hand and as such left it to K1-B0. Himiko wondered if a punishment was really necessary, but Shuichi told her that if they did not die here then the world might want more Killing Games someday. With that, K1-B0 proceeded to destroy the school, killing Tsumugi and Monokuma in the process.

NDRV3 Survivors 2
Himiko survived the final Execution along with fellow survivors Shuichi and Maki by hiding under some rubble. Himiko was in a bit of a bind, but Shuichi helped her up before taking in their surroundings. Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles had been completely obliterated by K1-B0 with a large hole in the dome being left from his own explosion. The remaining survivors wondered what would become of the fictional world now, but none of them had an idea of what to do now that everything was over. Maki questioned at first why they were still alive, but Himiko and Shuichi both stated that it must have been the outside world's will that let them survive.

To Maki and Himiko's surprise, Shuichi stated that what Tsumugi said to them about the outside world may have been a lie and that Hope's Peak Academy and the Remnants of Despair might actually exist, though he has no proof to back up this claim. He also does not think that he would willingly participate in a killing game no matter how mad of a world he was living in, but once again it is mere speculation, though Himiko states that Kaito's insight might be rubbing off on him.

NDRV3 Survivors
Despite not really knowing what is truth and what is lie, Himiko along with the two remaining survivors resolve themselves to go out into the outside world and see the truth for themselves, and that if a lie had changed the world, then the story would not end.

Creation and 

Her given name kanji, 秘密子 himiko, means "secret child" while her last name kanji, 夢野 yumeno, means "dream field". Her full name could be taken as a pun meaning "secret child of wide dreams".

Alternate 
InDanganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Himiko was first seen in the cafeteria along with Tenko Chabashira and Kaito Momota. She introduced herself to Kaede Akamatsu and Makoto Naegi, insisting that her true title is the Ultimate Mage but due to the conspiracy of magic nonexistent, people refer her as the Ultimate Magician, much to her dismay.

During the incident of Yasuhiro Hagakure's murder, Himiko was having tea with Tenko in the cafeteria. Himiko gives her a lecture about the difference between magic and witchcraft and stated that there was always the two of them. However, Tenko noticed a male entering the kitchen but didn't have time to pay closer attention since Himiko's lecture intensified and didn't let her have some free time until the body discovery announcement was broadcasted by Monokuma.


Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Himiko Yumeno
Himiko has pale skin, reddish-brown eyes, and chin-length red hair. Her most notable trait is her black "witch hat", with a red strip around the middle of it, a small pin on the cloth. She also has a quite short stature and round face, giving her quite a young appearance. The right corners of her upper lips are slightly curled up, and her eyes are lazily lidded, reflecting how easily tired she gets.

She also wears brown medieval boots with white ribbons tied around her ankles, dark brown tights, and a pleated bubble red skirt. Around her shoulders is a black blazer with grey accents, with a grey blouse underneath a brown sweater vest. On the pocket of her blazer is an insignia of her previous high school, and gold buttons adorn her blazer.

Some of her hair is hidden underneath the witch hat she wears on her head. She also wears a hairpin on the right side of her bangs, which resembles a blue gem. The same similar gems appear as cufflinks on her sleeves.

In the prologue, Himiko wears a white sailor blouse with green lining and a red bow, a grey cardigan, a pleated blue skirt, white socks, and black loafers.


Regarding her talent, Himiko considers her parlor tricks to be real magic. This is why she prefers to be called a mage instead of a magician. However, she is only seen doing rather ordinary things like hand techniques and making doves appear. She gets annoyed if people tell her magic isn't real, causing her to repeat that it is over and over again. During various situations, she tends to claim that she could use her magic to fix the problem, but she says she doesn't have enough MP. She also tends to take the  in multiple situations, claiming it all happened thanks to her magic. Fitting her mage theme, she also uses a very notable outdated way of speaking, though this is not included in the English version. While all of this can make her appear self-centered, she has actually explained that one of the biggest reasons why she likes being a "mage" is to make her audience happy and smile, especially children.

While she has a "to the max" side as a magician, Himiko also has a very lazy side and finds putting in the maximum effort to be too much trouble. She constantly calls things tiresome and appears disinterested in things other than magic, refusing to do several things because it's "such a pain". She also struggles to communicate her feelings to others, claiming that talking wears her out and generally appears to be spaced out.While she is occasionally anxious to the point of severe trembling and stuttering, there are also moments when she just appears mildly annoyed during horrible situations and doesn't seem to fully realize what is happening. She is also notably childish, taking pride in things like brushing her teeth or going to the bathroom by herself, and constantly talks about her magic or other completely irrelevant topics during inappropriate moments. At one point, the other students agree that she would be incapable of creating a very complex plan, as Maki points out that she is "a bit slow". Because of all of this, she has difficulties connecting with others, and her overall behavior seems to suggest that she may have some form of disorder. Even though it often cannot be seen from the outside, she does feel strongly on the inside and suffers from terrible fear during the killing game.

Her personality conflicts with the complete opposite of Tenko Chabashira's, who tires out Himiko very quickly with her extreme personality, causing her to tell her to stop and leave her alone rather rudely and bluntly at times. It's implied that she doesn't really dislike Tenko, and simply finds the situation overwhelming. Feeling as if she has no one to turn to, Himiko is easily convinced to worship Atua by Angie Yonaga, with her using this faith as an escapism against the terrible situation she is in. She appears to turn much more peaceful, but also refuses to face the reality and even begins to suppress emotions such as anger, and lets Angie's Atua make all the decisions. After the deaths of both Angie and Tenko, she was shocked at first and later began to act very depressed after the other students accused her of being their potential murderer. She appeared passively suicidal, saying she doesn't care anymore and life itself is a pain after losing her closest friends and then being called their murderer, and told the other students they can just pick her as the culprit as she was too tired to fight back their accusations. However, after receiving encouragement from some others students and Shuichi reminding her of Tenko's advice to live life forward while expressing your emotions, Himiko brought herself out of her dark thoughts and wished to avenge Angie and Tenko with newfound determination and energy. After the killer was revealed and executed, Kokichi still pointed out that Himiko is holding back her true feelings and his harsh words caused her to finally break and cry heavily, which ultimately helped her to cope with her pain and emotions.

Starting from Chapter 4, Himiko decides to change herself for better in order to survive the killing game as well as protect her friends after two of her best friends perished. After Tenko's advice about letting out her emotions, she does her best to not be lazy and becomes high spirited at times, also making herself better in communicating and bonding with the others, notably Maki Harukawa. She copied Kaito Momota's "Maki Roll" nickname for her, but always ended up being glared at by an annoyed Maki. Overall, Himiko becomes a whole new person through self-improvement and adoration for those around her. She's more openly caring, trusting, and plays huge roles in the class trials. She states that she wants nothing more than to be useful to her friends and loved ones. It's also pointed out that her facial expressions become easier for others to read. She even begins to act more physically active, like occasionally running when it isn't necessary, which quickly makes her tired since she is not used to it. She is even a little less fixated on magic, being willing to admit that some things didn't happen because of her magic and had nothing to do with it. Nevertheless, the concept is still very close to her, as she says that she'll always be a dreamer.

Himiko is also shown to be a bit self-conscious about her shortness and small chest, which is why she often gets annoyed when Tenko keeps calling her "small and cute" during the earlier chapters. She is also conscious about her face, possibly because Miu and Kokichi repeatedly call her ugly. She also humorously occasionally assumes that some other students have a romantic interest in her, though she seems to be a bit uncomfortable if the other person is a girl, bluntly asking them if "they're playing for the other team" as seen with Kaede and Tenko. She apparently likes "handsome men", as she considers the god Atua to be a one, and she can occasionally say something surprisingly suggestive about the matter. She also has a humorous tendency to blush from her own compliments. She has an interest in romance and soap operas, as she is shown to be genuinely interested in and entertained by Monotaro and Monophanie's drama in Chapter 4. She also appears to be quite gullible and easily tricked if a boy claims to have an interest in her, as she blushes and genuinely seems to believe Kokichi when he at one point claims to like her, likely as a joke. The other students are even shown to be defensive of her and tell Kokichi to stop playing with her heart.

In the original Japanese, Himiko usually called people that she respects with a usual suffix "よ/yo" and ended her sentence with "-ja." She also refers herself as "Uchi/うち/ウチ", a pronoun used where a person was talking on behalf of their family, company, etc. It is also used by women in the Kansai region and the island of Kyushu.


Ultimate 
Himiko's talent as the Ultimate Magician is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Himiko is a talented magician in the past.

Danganronpa V3 Himiko Yumeno Introduction (Demo Version)
Himiko can perform parlor tricks such as choosing someone's card correctly, finding a coin in their ear, or make doves appear. She claims she uses real magic, though this is not confirmed.

Himiko has mentioned that the only "magic" performance she never succeeded in before is the Water Escape Performance. However, she could survive the water escape trick in Chapter 2 perfectly.

In other 
Himiko's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Magician
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「マジシャン」	Super High School Level Magician
Français Magicienne Ultime	Ultimate Magician
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的魔術師	Super High School Level Magician
中文 超高中级的魔术师	Super High School Level Magician
Ultimate Mage
Title	English Translation
日本語超高校級の「魔法使い」	Super High School Level Mage
FrançaisSorcière Ultime	Ultimate Witch
‪中文(台灣)‬TBA	TBA

Family:
Her 
It is heavily implied that Himiko has a strong relationship with her mother, as she is seen talking about her often.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Tenko 
Tenko is shown to be attracted to Himiko since the first chapter and constantly tries to spend time with her and get her attention. Her behavior is sometimes flirtatious, which seems to make Himiko uncomfortable. Having extremely different personalities, Himiko is often overwhelmed by Tenko and wants to be left in peace. She can quite bluntly and rudely tell her to stop, yet Tenko continues to stay with her and wishes to protect her. Notably, Tenko is the only other student who seems to genuinely believe in Himiko's magic and just like her, she keeps insisting that she is a real mage instead of a magician. Tenko also often attempts to convince Himiko to take up Neo Aikido, but she always declines, claiming to be too lazy.

Tenko is also very protective of Himiko and was usually the one to save her from incidents, like when she was attacked by bugs. In Chapter 2, she also tried to convince Himiko not to perform her dangerous trick. During the second trial, when Angie turned against Himiko, Tenko protected her from all the suspicion towards her, saying that she will believe in Himiko no matter what and doesn't think she is a person capable of taking the others' lives. Thanks to this act, Himiko began to warm up to Tenko a little bit, as she later joins Tenko in her activities in the dojo. Tenko throws her, which allows her to read Himiko's emotions and give her advice. Though, Himiko gets angry due to being thrown and threatens to turn Tenko into an ugly frog.

During the bonus event in Chapter 3, when the girls were in the pool's locker room and Himiko was very self-conscious about her small chest, Tenko gave her a big self-esteem boost by stating that beauty matters more than size and assured her that she is well-shaped.

Tenko later becomes jealous and worried when Himiko decides to follow Angie's footsteps in worshipping her "handsome" God. She asks Himiko if she's into handsome types and why she doesn't go for Tenko instead. Himiko then asks Tenko if she swings that way, slightly shocking Tenko who then turns embarrassed and nervously tries to explain it's not like that. In Chapter 3, Tenko even joined the Student Council led by Angie only so she could be close with Himiko and protect her. However, they get into an argument after Tenko outrightly tries to ask Himiko to leave the council, with Tenko even telling her she isn't a real mage for being so easily persuaded by Angie. Himiko refuses as she uses the council to cope with the killing game situation, though it also causes her to shut in her feelings. However, the argument notably affects Himiko, and Tenko, in turn, feels very guilty for yelling at Himiko and decides to apologize.

During the beginning of a seance, Tenko fulfilled her role as a protector for Himiko, as she was the one who told Himiko to stay back and voluntarily made herself as the medium, ultimately saving Himiko's life due to Korekiyo's trap and ending her own in Chapter 3. Just before her death, she gave Himiko advice about being open about her emotions, and the two made up with Himiko seemingly developing a much more positive view of Tenko than before. When Tenko is murdered, Himiko has a breakdown and she tries to act according to Tenko's example in the future, causing her to develop as a person. Her development is also helped by Kokichi's harsh words during the trial, as he calls her out for her hypocritical behavior, as she didn't show any care towards Tenko before her death. Himiko feels guilty because of this, wishing she could have thanked Tenko and overall be nicer towards her.

During later chapters, Himiko mentions Tenko quite a few times wistfully, usually when some situation makes her think about how Tenko would have acted towards her when she was still alive. She talks about this with Shuichi, who in turn is reminded of Kaede.

While Tenko is confirmed to have romantic feelings for Himiko, her feelings for Tenko are a bit more unclear. During the final Class Trial, when Tsumugi claimed she was responsible for causing Maki to have romantic feelings for Kaito, Himiko was heartbroken after learning that the reason why Tenko was always protecting her was because it was scripted and Tsumugi claimed  for her feelings as well.

Angie 
Though appearing uninterested and lazy at first, Himiko becomes close friends with Angie and gets converted into her religion to worship her "handsome god", which makes Tenko jealous. Himiko is shown to like Angie very much and Angie even assists her at one point during their magic show, which was Angie's idea, although they are interrupted by Ryoma Hoshi's murder. However, the other students are disturbed by their bond which appears to be a result of brainwashing.

Despite their bond, Angie immediately accused Himiko of being Ryoma's killer when there was evidence that showed Himiko was capable of being the killer. Angie stated that she needed to do so because she didn't want her classmates to die due to choosing the wrong culprit. Himiko doesn't blame Angie for this, as she is extremely trusting of her and Atua's logic. Because of this, Tenko later joined the Student Council to be with Himiko and protect her and later betrayed Angie.

When the two are killed by Korekiyo, Himiko is devastated and tearful. She actively participates in their class trial, determined to solve their murders and find their killer.

Tsumugi 
Tsumugi seems to be the only other one among students alongside Tenko that responds to Himiko's saying as a mage. When Himiko states that she ran out of MP during the demo class trial, Tsumugi suggests that she sleep at the inn for one night in order to restore her MP.

The two remained on good terms with one another throughout the Killing School Semester, never seeming openly hostile to each other but not quite close friends either. After Kaito's trial concluded, both girls joined Shuichi and Maki in the courtyard to carry on the Ultimate Astronaut's will, showing that they see each other as fellow survivors and friends.

After Shuichi deduced that Tsumugi was Rantaro's true killer and Ringleader behind their killing game, Himiko did not want to believe it and, like Shuichi, wanted her to argue and prove her own innocence, not wanting to condemn or think ill of another comrade. After Tsumugi did admit to orchestrating their killing game, Himiko could do nothing but be even more disappointed, but eventually vowed to stop her and the killing game alongside her fellow survivors for good, even if it cost her her own life.

Kokichi 
Kokichi enjoys teasing and picking on Himiko due to her delayed reactions and personality, which make her an easy target since she often does not realize what Kokichi means and gets angry whenever she does. Kokichi tends to point fingers at her and claim she's the culprit, though he doesn't really seem to believe this and seemingly just does it for fun, like in Chapter 2. Being overly protective of Himiko, Tenko assumes Kokichi likes Himiko because she believes boys only tease the girls they like. Kokichi answers with a slightly surprised and innocent "huh!? how'd you know?!", though it's likely he was just joking around.

During Chapter 3's trial, Kokichi causes Himiko to cry by harshly calling her out for running away from her own emotions and being a hypocrite. She had made promises and talked at length during the trial about how she wasn’t going to call things tiresome and that she was going to embrace her emotions to the fullest and be honest with herself, but she wasn't actually doing it. This causes Himiko to recall Tenko's last words to her, about how crying, laughing, and venting your anger out makes you feel better than bottling it all up, and she finally cries until she falls asleep. It’s heavily implied that Kokichi genuinely cared about Himiko at the moment, as he himself states that he was being so harsh because he cares. While he dislikes people lying to themselves, he also appears to sympathize with them, and his speech ended up helping Himiko a lot. As a result, however, Himiko really dislikes and doesn't trust Kokichi in the later chapters. Kokichi also appeared to genuinely compliment Himiko during the trial, when her decision to use the middle room turned out to be an extremely important clue.

During Chapter 5's class trial, Himiko states that there is no way to love or take interest in a person like Kokichi. However, Kokichi teasingly says that he knows that she likes him and then claims that he likes her in a more sincere sounding voice, though his facial expressions cannot be seen due to the Exisal. Himiko is a bit shocked by the surprising answer, blushing deeply and putting her hand on her heart. The other students quickly get angry at Kokichi and tell him to stop playing with Himiko's heart. With his lying and mischievous nature, it is hard to tell how serious Kokichi was, but it's likely that he simply gave a surprising answer for his own amusement, especially since it's been shown that Himiko would be easily tricked with such words and Kokichi's more serious sounding tone at the time. The script was written by Kokichi, but it's unknown how sincere he was portrayed, so Kaito only followed what was written down. After revealing himself, Kaito also confessed that he had to ad-lib quite a bit.

In her relationship chart, Kokichi grins while calling her "an extremely ugly girl". He similarly calls Himiko ugly during the Prologue, when Miu tells the Monokubs to kill the ugly ones first, and Kokichi then cheerfully tells Himiko to run. Himiko, however, does not understand what he's talking about.

Miu 
Himiko's insistence on magic often annoyed Miu, and Miu even called her a con artist at one point. Miu also repeatedly insulted her, saying that she has a small chest and ugly face, calling her things like "midget" and "donkey-lipped".

In Chapter 4, Himiko was upset with the disappointing avatar graphics in the Neo World Program for their avatar, yelling to Miu who repeatedly apologized to her. However, she grew to like her avatar during the investigation and was notably relieved to use her "beautiful" avatar again when the group returned to the virtual world to investigate Miu's death.

Himiko stated that Miu didn't deserve to be killed, but after learning the fact that she was killed when trying to perpetrate Kokichi's murder, she decided to change her opinion about her once again. She even said that Miu's demise, killed by strangulation using a toilet paper, is a fitting end for a person like her. She also didn't want to befriend her, even if they had been outside the Killing Game as she said during the fourth Class Trial.

K1-B0
During most of the Killing Game, Himiko is shown to have quite a poor opinion of K1-B0, seemingly not considering him a person and more than once suggesting that "they should just kill the robot". At one point, Himiko even suggests that K1-B0 should self-destruct to open a hole in the wall, thus making himself useful for once. Because of her mean words, K1-B0 is very offended and even proclaims that she is the worst person in the academy, second only to Kokichi.

In Chapter 6, Himiko began to have a better opinion of K1-B0 and saw him as a close friend. After he helped the other students a lot, she acted much friendlier towards him and even offered to make him a real boy with her magic. When K1-B0's personality was about to be erased during the final trial, Himiko was horrified by such cruelness and cried while begging for K1-B0 to stay with them, reminding him that he has survived this far.

In the end, K1-B0 self-destructed to destroy the academy's wall, letting Himiko and the other survivors escape. Himiko believed that he must have made sure that his three friends survive.

Monokuma Kubs:
Monotaro 
Himiko could note that he was being bullied as Monotaro was acting weird to the students after Monokid died.

In Chapter 4, when Monotaro suffered from severe memory issues, he somehow became friends with the remaining students as he was helpful to them and considered him a very nice person. When Monotaro believed K1-B0 was his father and the robot declined, Himiko accused K1-B0 of mean behavior and told him he should at least play along for now.

Free 

Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Himiko Yumeno, Hotel Kumasutra#Himiko Yumeno
Himiko Pixel Head Icon
Himiko Yumeno
Loves:	048. Illusion Rod, 054. Flame Thunder, 066. Bird Food, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	003. Ginger Tea, 004. Cleopatra's Pearl Cocktail, 007. Sugar, 009. Astro Cake, 013. Bunny Apples, 016. Candy Cigarette, 019. Crystal Bangle, 021. Bondage Boots, 024. Mono-Jinbei, 029. Wearable Blanket, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 032. Cufflinks, 038. Dreams Come True ☆ Spell Book, 045. High-End Headphones, 046. Teddy Bear, 058. Gold Origami, 067. Proxilingual Device, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 072. Work Chair Of Doom, 077. Clock-Shaped Gaming Console, 081. Jelly Balls, 084. Semazen Doll, 091. Space Egg, 094. Helping Yacchi, 095. Home Planet, 105. Bear Ears, 109. Cosmic Blanket, 110. Fully-Automated Shaved Ice Machine

DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"Prepare to be amazed. Fall to your knees. I am Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Mage. But... I'm officially called the Ultimate Magician."
"I'm known as a magician, but that's just a ruse. I'm actually... a mage. A group trying to hide magic's existence from the world labeled my magic as tricks. Because of this ruse, I became famous all over the world for performing magic tricks. But... I'm not a magician... I'm a mage... Nobody believes me..."
"Nyeh... So Kokichi's talent and Kiyo's face are both suspicious? I could strip 'em both butt naked with my magic...but my MP's low right now."
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Chapter 1:

"Nyeeeh, so we can escape if we work had enough...?"
"But I guess people can overcome their fears when they're really forced to..."
"Nyeeeh... I'm just a cute, normal girl who can use magic, y'know?"
"I-It's not me either... Murder sounds like way too much work."
"I'm not a bad girl, really... If you don't believe me, ask my mommy."
"It's nice when everyone gets along like this."
Chapter 2:

"The bullying will never stop...because of people like you."
"You need skills to perform magic tricks. Knowing how they work isn't enough... But I use real magic, not magic tricks."
"Nyeeeh...as long as I pray like this, I don't need to waste my energy on useless stuff. No matter what happens or what trouble lies ahead, my heart will be calm..."
"S-Stop it...when you interrupt me, it messes up my calm heart... I-I remembered this nightmare reality I'm in... A-All my insecurities and loneliness...the pain th-that want me to die.."
"Don't worry, admission is free. Er, actually, I guess admission will just be your smiles."
"Over the years, my show has given many smiles to people with broken hearts... Now is the time to demonstrate my powers. My magic is the only thing that can heal your twisted hearts."
"I can do it... I'm a skilled young girl... Cuz...I'm a mage..."
"Nyeeeh...my magic was supposed to make everyone smile..."
"N-No matter how much you guys threaten me, my answer won't change. It was...magic..."
"No, it's okay... We shouldn't be mad at Angie... We should be mad at this Class Trial... At this killing game..."
"If it was that easy, we'd be done by now. No, this is a world of lies and betrayal."
"No one can slip by me! I'm known far and wide as the "Snoozing Sorceress"!"
"Yeah... My brain's outta juice from going full-throttle all day."
Chapter 3:

"It's becoming more and more beautiful... Just like me."
"Changing expressions...is a pain."
"My shows are supposed to make people smile. But...it was used for the exact opposite. It seems like...as a mage... I've still got a ways to go..." (About Ryoma's death)
"Surviving...and everything else... It's too much of a pain..."
"Alright! I'll put a silencing curse on whoever calls Tenko's death meaningless! The name of the curse is...Death Curse!"
"Whether or not I believe... My heart...can't reach Tenko anymore... But I wanna believe in her... She wouldn't commit suicide! She wouldn't try to take us down! That's what I want to believe!"
"If I gave up here, I wouldn't be able to face Angie or Tenko... Nyeeeeeeh! Alright! I'm not gonna say it's a pain anymore! I won't give up! I'll fight alongside everyone and survive!"
"Shuichi...please. Put an end to this... For Angie and Tenko's sake... End this Class Trial!"
"It's not fair! Why did Angie and Tenko have to die for something so unfair!?"
"Tenko...Angie! I'm so lonely! I'm so lonely...without you two! But...I gotta survive! I...still can't go to where you are! But...I'm lonely! I'm so lonely without the both of you!"
Chapter 4:

"Heeey! You guys have no energy! You need to look alive! You're all still teenagers!"
"Your "good mornings" are too quiet! It's cuz you're so quiet that you feel down! But...being depressed won't help those who died rest in peace... Tenko and Angie, too. If I stay depressed, they won't be able to rest in peace either. So in order to make their deaths have meaning, I've decided to live my live with positivity! S-So anyway... Please...t-take care of the...new me..."
"Nyeeeh, Shuichi's grown up! He's become so reliable! Now that you're so respectable, I'll let you pet me if you want!"
"Don't look down on hard work! ...Is what I'd like to say, but working hard at escaping from there is pointless."
"I decided to live life facing forward. That's why I can't stop. Actually, I can't even walk! I need to be constantly running forward!"
"I want to live life facing forward for Tenko and Angie's sakes... But I don't know what I'm supposed to do. I'm probably paying for saying that everything was a pain up till now."
"...Will that make me positive? Can I live life facing forward?"
"You're a good person. But does that make you a good detective?"
"They say good deeds should be done quickly, so I'll start right after breakfast."
"Next up, we're gonna do 100 cool magic show poses! Follow along after me! Don't forget to smile for the audience!"
"Throwing away my regrets and moving forward! That's my new way of life!"
"Alright! I'll learn from Tenko and move forward!"
"Fine...I'll go too. Being left behind will just make me worry."
"Well? Get to it. Savor the joy of carrying out orders." (to Shuichi)
"Just ignore Kokichi. The rest of us need to work together to find the truth. Got it!? We can't die here!"
"That's when we gotta think about! Now, let's all work together!"
"Lying would do you a lot of good if you're the culprit."
Chapter 5:

"I...don't want to lose any more friends. It's even more painful than losing yourself... That's why I'll fight! I'm not afraid of Monokuma!"
"I-I'm scared of dying... But nothing good will come from surviving with you.
"I'll cheer for you guys!"
"We were the symbols of hope entrusted with the survival of humanity!"
"Wanting to feel the despair of your plan being ruined... That's the Ultimate Despair for you."
"We won't be able to do anything in that destroyed world... But making the impossible possible is what magic is all about!"
"It's a pain, but it'll be worth it! I'll live! I'll live for a hundred million more years!"
"Nyeeeh... Motivation is rushing through my entire body. Hiii hee hee hee! This is the power of hope!"
"Then Kokichi'll be as good as butt naked! All he'll be able to do is hold his crotch and run!"
"No, she's dangerous. There's nothing more dangerous than a heated Maki Roll. If a Maki Roll gets too heated, you could burn your tongue!"
"Nyeeeh! What's the truth and what's a lie!? I don't know anymore!"
"Who's even gonna play that game anymore!? It's already over!"
"I'll train you all from the ground up so we can end this killing game together. Yeah. We're gonna do what we promised and work together to end this killing game."
Chapter 6:

"Hiii hee hee hee! Be happy! The legendary mage is your sidekick!"
"Shuichi, I know I yelled at you just now, but talk to me when you're stuck. That should help you have an epiphany. I *am* a legendary mage, after all."
"Th-That's right! There's no way we can give up! I promised I'd do my best for them! So there's no way I can give up!"
"We're all trying to work together and find the truth, but I haven't found any clues yet... I need to recover my honor! Since I got that memory back, I'm now overwhelmed with anger! With my skills, I'll catch the dastardly Monokuma and the mastermind!"
"Since you believe in me, I need to give it my all... I'll find the clue, even if it uses up every last drop of my magic and kills me! I'm just letting you know how determined I am. You guys should believe in me and go on ahead."
"Once you go in, you'll understand... Seeing is believing."
"Even I, the wise and powerful Himiko, panicked a little bit when I saw I was trapped in here."
"I banged on the walls and the floor and yelled for help. Calmly and rationally, of course..."
"I-I want to be useful for my friends."
"I have friends I can trust! There's nothing to be scared of!"
"We're all friends who can believe in each other, aren't we!?"
"We're all going to be working together this time... I already feel more at ease!"
"There's a big wall between living things and objects, but you're our friend, Keebo."
"That's impossible. No matter how many times he reincarnates, he's a liar down to his soul."
"But there's nothing to worry about! We got this far because we're friends! We're in this together, no matter what! There's nothing to fear!"
"So...if you're really not the mastermind then don't give up! I'll cheer you on!"
"I don't want to know anything else! I've had enough!"
"We can put an end to this killing game... We can put an end to these killing games that everyone out there wants so bad... If so, then... I...!"
"Even if I am a fictional character, my life is real... That's why killing games are fun, right? It's fun to see two lives clash, right? But I won't let you use my life for some show! I'm going o use my life...to end this killing game! So Tenko, Angie, and all the past victims can rest in peace... I'll use the only weapon I've got! I'll use my life to put an end to this killing game!"
"H-How cruel can you guys be? How long are you gonna play with our lives!?"
"Th-That's right! We're not gonna just be fiction!"
"Serves you right! That's what you get for breaking the rules like that!"
Epilogue:

"To the outside world, huh? I wonder what kind of world it is."
"I guess it's not important whether it's a truth or lie. Just what it leads to..."
"You're right. We can't stay in this fictional world forever. It's already over. We gotta take all the experience we earned in this world and go on to the next."
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Himiko's title, rather than being 魔術師 majutsushi (a magician in the fantastical sense) or 手品師 tejinashi (magician as in a performer), is simply the Japanese transliteration of the English word "magician" - which in Japanese could also mean both "real" and "stage" magician, although usually refers to the latter.
Himiko is the shortest female character in Danganronpa V3.
Himiko Yumeno's familiar spirit
Himiko claims that her familiar is a tiger cub (which is seen in her official artwork). However, during her Love Suite fantasy scene, her familiar is a wolf transformed into a human form she fell in love with.
She strongly dislikes insects.
In the picture of the Ultimate Academy Student Council, Himiko's right hand is showing and her thumb is on the wrong side of her hand.
Himiko's English voice actress, Christine Marie Cabanos, also voices Chiaki Nanami.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Himiko the 5th most popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Himiko was voted the 13th most popular student in the electronic poll, and 8th through post cards.

K1-B0 was created by an organization that created and featured Killing Games for the entire world's entertainment, Team Danganronpa. They decided that the main gimmick for the 53rd Season of Danganronpa would be "audience participation", K1-B0 was created for that role. The prominent Ahoge on the top of his head acted as an antenna that received signals. This would end up being the "inner voice" that K1-B0 would hear many times throughout the events of the Killing Game, nothing more than an audience survey. His eyes would also act as a camera for the viewers, letting them see the Killing Game from his perspective.

Fabricated Past
In order for him to fulfill his role as the "connector" to the outside world, K1-B0's memory of being a part of Team Danganronpa was erased and fabricated just like any other Killing Game participant. His memories and personality were fabricated as follows:

Professor Idabashi, the leading expert in robotics engineering, created K1-B0 to be the culmination of all his research and work. He was meant to be a robot more human than any other robot before. Initially, K1-B0 had no knowledge nor awareness, and was only capable of displaying a very narrow spectrum of human emotions. The plan was to raise and develop him like a parent would their own child. However, a few years passed, and there was no improvement in his mental state.

One day, an unpredictable accident occurred during a routine experiment. K1-B0's programming went rogue and he ended up seriously injuring the professor, but fortunately he survived. After hurting the professor, K1-B0 was suddenly overcome by immense sadness, especially considering that the First Law of Robotics said that a robot must not harm a human being. Even though K1-B0 wasn't punished for breaking that rule, he nevertheless felt sadness and blamed himself, feeling immense guilt. For the first time, he understood how it felt to feel human emotions, and at that moment his AI suddenly reset as if committing suicide. He became like a newborn infant once again, with all of his memories deleted. In his "next life", K1-B0 called it the day of his own "death" and the day of his true "birth". After learning the story from the professor, he assumed that perhaps he had wanted to be "reborn" as the professor's son once again.

K1-B0's strength was considerably weakened after the incident, described as being similar in strength to an average senior citizen. This time, his AI matured accordingly and he learned and developed as his creator raised him like his own child, with K1-B0 considering the professor his father. Eventually, the professor even sent him to attend Īdabashi Industries High School (飯田橋工業高校) and he was recognized as being Ultimate even as a robot. However, he fears that other students will discriminate him because he is a robot.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for K1-B0 and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. K1-B0 was among these sixteen individuals even though he was a robot.
Despite being chosen to participant however, K1-B0 and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, K1-B0 chose to forget about his Ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. K1-B0 and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma, the Ultimate Supreme Leader, lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced K1-B0 and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, the true Mastermind, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, were actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair, and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush however, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym K1-B0 was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. It is unknown how K1-B0 felt about the situation as he was never seen talking or interacting with anybody, nor is it known whether or not he actually had his memories of being a "connector" to the outside world at this time. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived and revealed themselves from within their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light. K1-B0 and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. He also received the talent and title of Ultimate Robot. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, K1-B0 and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester. Danganronpa V3 CG - Pre-Game Students in their talent outfits (Vita) (1)
K1-B0 was later found in one of the classrooms on the first floor by Kaede and Shuichi, the Ultimate Detective, after deciding that they would explore and investigate the school together. Kokichi was also in that classroom, highly intrigued by the Ultimate Robot, constantly pestering him and asking him absurd question. K1-B0 was very agitated by this, trying to get away from him and politely asking Kokichi to "leave me alone". K1-B0 introduced himself to Kaede and Shuichi as the Ultimate Robot, stating that he was the finest creation of Professor Idabashi, the leading authority in the field of robotics. He told the duo that the professor raised him like his own child and that he had a maturing AI inside of him, though Kokichi found his backstory to be fairly unremarkable and become more disappointed from the Ultimate Robot's lack of exciting functions, like a rocket punch. Kaede thought to herself that they were both fairly strange individuals before continuing to explore with Shuichi.

K1-B0 would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokubs made their announcement. Everyone conversed with each other, wondering why all sixteen of them had been gathered together like this. Afterwards, the Monokubs and Monokuma, the Monokubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game, much to almost everyone's shock and horror. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.

Attempting the Death Road of 
Danganronpa V3 CG - Gonta Gokuhara lifting up the manhole cover
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, K1-B0 read the rules on his Monopad. A majority of the group wasn't sure what to do after reading these rules and began to panic and argue. Thanks to Kaede's motivational argument however, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. K1-B0 along with everyone else immediately followed Gonta's lead, with hope of finding a way out. Upon discovering the manhole, K1-B0 volunteered to lift it, but his minimal power alone wasn't enough to lift it, much to everyone's disappointment. Nonetheless, he was impressed that Gonta could lift the manhole easily.

Danganronpa V3 CG - The students despairing at failing the Death Road of Despair (3)
Descending the manhole, K1-B0 and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, K1-B0 and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, K1-B0 included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokubs, much to everyone's dismay. K1-B0 headed to his assigned dorm room along with the others to get some rest, seeming fairly neutral on the issue, not taking any one side in particular.

The First and Additional 
The next day, K1-B0 and everyone gathered in the dining hall. Once Kaede showed up, the whole group began to think back to yesterday's events, but seemed to have consolidated slightly thanks to Kokichi's "kind lie". Afterwards, Monokuma came to the dining hall and announced the first motive, anyone who committed the first killing will graduate without holding a trial, effectively calling it a "First Blood Perk". Everyone was worried about what this would mean, aside from Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, who became increasingly outraged with Monokuma for doing whatever he wanted and lunged at him. This caused the Monokubs to show up, showing no hesitation to punish Kaito with the Exisals for attempting violence against their father, effectively breaking the rules. The red Exisal charged at him, but accidentally ended up crushing Monokuma instead, supposedly destroying him. The Monokubs were incredibly saddened at the sudden demise of their father, stating that he had no spare and that he was one of a kind. Upon learning this, K1-B0 and everyone else's mood improved greatly, thinking the Killing Game to be over.

The next morning, K1-B0 was with everyone else in the dining hall once again, happy that the Killing Game had supposedly ended. However, it didn't take long for Monokuma to show up yet again, much to the dismay of the rest of the students, but to the joy of the Monokubs. Monokuma goes on to reveal the additional motive, that if a murder did not occur within two days by noon, everyone who was forced to participate would be killed. This motive caused a majority of the group to become too depressed to stay united and leave the dining hall, KI-B0 included.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Hidden Camera Photo (3)
K1-B0 didn't do anything notable during the time limit, even on the final day as the time limit was getting close to its end, he remained alone in his room. However, as soon as the body discovery announcement played and told everyone to go to the library, K1-B0 immediately rushed over there. He was among the last group of people to enter the library along with the people in the dining hall, Ryoma Hoshi, the Ultimate Tennis Pro, and Kokichi. There, they found Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ??? dead on the ground in the back of the library. Everyone was shocked and baffled as to how and why Rantaro was killed as the investigation began.

The First Investigation and 
During Kaede and Shuichi's investigation, they began gathering information from everyone, asking them of their alibi's. K1-B0 partnered up with Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist, to investigate the lookout classroom that Kaede and Shuichi used. When K1-B0 was asked about his alibi, he was unable to find the right words due to not actually having a proper alibi. Kaede found out suspicious that he was in his room the whole time, but reassured K1-B0 that him not having a proper alibi doesn't automatically make him the killer.

During the class trial itself, K1-B0 did not contribute to the discussion in an overly significant matter, but he did defend Shuichi when he was being accused of killing Rantaro due to not mentioning the camera intervals beforehand. He later listened to him point out Kaede as the killer, then watched as she was executed by Monokuma. K1-B0 did not seem to think ill of her, still viewing her as a good person for wanting to save everybody. He later headed back to his dorm room along with everyone else, leaving the trial grounds.

Exploring the Rest of the 
The morning of the next day, K1-B0 along with everyone else would gather in the dining hall once again and have a normal, but forced conversation to try and make themselves not think about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. Afterwards, the Monokubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that would become unlocked was the pool. K1-B0, Shuichi, and Tenko Chabashira, the Ultimate Aikido Master, were the first ones to investigate the area. Upon seeing the resort-like pool, Tenko became excited and stated that she had always dreamed of swimming in a pool like a famous celebrity, except for the fact that she didn't know how to swim. K1-B0 however, said that if he tried to swim he'd probably end up sinking. Tenko then wondered if K1-B0 was a boy or a girl due to technically not having a real gender. K1-B0 said that it was a good question and that he'd never thought about it before, but went with male pronouns simply because that was what he had always gone with.

Angie eventually told K1-B0 and everyone else to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight that she and Shuichi had discovered earlier. After everyone had gathered, Monokuma appeared and told everyone that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, K1-B0 included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

Danganronpa V3 - Everywhere Parasol Present
In a bonus scene in Chapter 2, K1-B0, Shuichi, Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, and Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, joined Tenko for her "celebrity-like vacation" in the pool area. Though K1-B0 seemed more interested in the parasol than he did anything else.

The Motive 
During that same night, the Monokubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. The next morning, K1-B0 joined everyone in the dining hall in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. Despite Ryoma suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. K1-B0 agreed with the majority, logically thinking that a killing would be less likely to happen if they did not watch their videos.

Gonta's Insect Meet and 
Gonta Insect Appreciation ClubThe next day, unbeknownst to K1-B0, Gonta, thanks to Kokichi's lies, believed that everyone hated bugs and began kidnapping various students into his Research Lab in order to get them to like bugs. In reality, Kokichi simply wanted to get everyone to watch their motive videos in order make the Killing Game "more interesting". K1-B0 would be among the first students that Gonta detained. Not long after, Shuichi, Himiko, and Angie were also brought into Gonta's Research Lab, and the Insect Meet and Greet began. Everyone panicked as insects began to buzz about and wreck havoc. Even thought K1-B0 was a robot, he still had a horrified expression on his face as the insects harassed him and the other students all throughout the lab. K1-B0 Recording2 Once Kokichi had returned with everyone's motive videos, K1-B0 decided that he had had enough and made use of his recording function in order to convince Gonta that The Ultimate Supreme Leader had tricked him, much to the former's anger. With that, K1-B0 and everyone else barring Gonta and Kokichi took back their motive videos before immediately leaving Gonta's lab, then heading to bed.
The Amazing Himiko's Magic 
Magic show gone wrong
The very next morning, K1-B0 attended Angie and Himiko's magic show along with everyone else from Gonta's Insect Meet and Great, bar Kokichi. Angie explained the details of Himiko's trick before the Ultimate Magician jumped into the tank, having only a single minute to escape the water tank before it would fill with piranha's. Angie closed the curtains, but everyone grew increasingly worried as the timer continued to count down and Himiko had yet to come out. Gonta couldn't take it anymore and stormed the stage, wanting to save Himiko before the piranha's would fill the tank, much to Angie's disappointment. Once the timer ran out, the piranha's dropped into the tank along with some other large object, though Himiko had yet to come out of the tank. Tenko begged Angie to open the curtains, a plea that she promptly responded to by revealing the tank, however, no one was prepared for what they were about to see. Ryoma's lifeless, handcuffed body drifted within the tank, only having a couple seconds before the piranha's stripped the flesh from his bone, leaving nothing more than a skeleton, the handcuff's, and his belongings behind. With that, the second investigation had begun.

Tenko and Gonta throwing K1-B0 to break the water tank After the body discovery announcement played, the remaining students gathered in the gym. Kokichi playfully urged Gonta to throw K1-B0 against the tank because it would take too long to drain by hand. Tenko helped Gonta use the Ultimate Robot like a battering ram and shattered the tank, flooding the gym with piranha infested, blood red water. K1-B0 would gather Ryoma's body and belongings in one place afterwards, seeming dejected that he was used as a mere object.
The Second Class 
During the second Class Trial, Shuichi was able to pin Kirumi as the culprit of Ryoma's murder. They also figured out the distance between both windows in the pool area thanks to K1-B0. After listening to Kirumi's motivations for killing and seeing her try to escape her executed, K1-B0 and everyone else all came to the unanimous conclusion that the motive videos were far more dangerous than originally believed if they had the ability to make Kirumi go that far. As a result, everyone kept the motive videos but did not watch them.

K1-B0's 
The next morning, at Kokichi's request after unveiling Maki's true talent the night prior, K1-B0 along with everyone else barring Maki paid a visit to the "Ultimate Child Caregiver's Research Lab" only to discover various weapons all throughout the lab, proving that Maki was in fact the Ultimate Assassin, not a child caregiver. Everyone became worried at this, fearing that the talent of a killer may be a threat to their own survival. Kaito however, reassured everyone and said that he would take care of Maki. Afterwards, the Monokubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy.

Iruma fixing Ki-Bo
While everyone else was busy searching the new areas of the academy, Miu dragged K1-B0 into her Research Lab in order to "perform maintenance" on him. Miu was very interested in the Ultimate Robot to a disturbing, erotic degree, much to his embarrassment. K1-B0 however, let her do whatever she pleased if it meant she would help him, saying that he had been neglecting his own needs ever since arriving at the Ultimate Academy. Miu told him to relax while she tended to him in "various ways". While it came off as odd initially, she was actually upgrading K1-B0 with flashlight function and a function that allows him to quite literally print out his memory. Both features would turn out to be highly useful in the next case and trial. K1-B0 also began to view Miu differently thanks to this, even going so far as to become jealous when she would spend time inspecting the computer room for the following days.

Later on, K1-B0 would gather with everyone else in the dining hall in order to inspect the new Flashback Light that Shuichi found. Upon using it, everyone remembered what seemed to be their own funeral, much to the student's confusion. Kaito reassured everyone that there's no way the funeral could be real considering they were all still here and alive. His small speech seemed to work, as everyone perked back up, enjoyed a small meal, then headed back to their dorms.

Angie's Student 
That same night, Angie went to talk with K1-B0, Himiko, Tenko, and Tsumugi in hopes of converting them all to her ideology and create a Student Council with the sole intent of ending the Killing Game while also throwing away their own desire to leave the academy. All four of them were "brainwashed" by Angie and became dependent on Atua.

The now-converted K1-B0 gathered with everyone in the gymnasium the very next morning at the Monokubs request. The participants were presented with the third motive, the Necronomicon, and were told that they would be able to bring back someone who had died already as a transfer student. This motive baffled the students, saying that there's no way the dead could come back to life. However, Angie seemed to embrace the motive, saying the "corpses" so far may have just been very accurate imitations to make the real people seem dead. Some of the students argued that there's no way that's possible, but K1-B0 seemed intent on listening to what Angie had to say. He then listened to Gonta say that more letters were added to the rock in the courtyard, deducing that perhaps the four people who had died are actually alive and wrote that message. Angie praised Gonta and, like K1-B0 before him, pulled him into a hug. She instilled hers and Atua's authority into him by reassuring him that he's not alone and that Atua is like a gentle grandmother that always keeps him safe, effectively playing off of Gonta's desire for a motherly figure.

The Ultimate Academy Student Council reformed
Angie then said that Gonta should join the student council, wanting to make Gonta feel needed. Tsumugi, and Himiko both requited this feeling. As a result, the Ultimate Entomologist did not hesitate for even a second if it meant he could be useful to everyone and joined Angie's group. Shuichi however, was confused as to what Angie meant by "student council", but K1-B0 replied by saying that Angie summoned himself, Tsumugi, Himiko, and Tenko last night in order to discuss how to eradicate the Killing Game and ended up forming the "Ultimate Academy Student Council" with Angie as their president. The "brainwashed" members listen to Angie completely and without question, stating that her will is Atua's will and as a result, she cannot be wrong. Angie took the Necronomicon and told everyone else to "leave it to the student council".

In reality however, Angie trying to unify the group with her student council only ended up causing discord between the student council and the non-student council members, such as during that same night when the student council ridiculed Maki for being out at nighttime. The very next morning, the two split parties came into conflict yet again after finding out that the student council had blocked off the manhole in the boiler room with a large rock. Angie even goes as far as to destroy a Flashback Light from the Monokubs, wanting to quell any desire to leave no matter the cost. K1-B0 and the others supported her one-hundred percent despite their extreme methods, having no malicious intent for the group, just wanting to stop another killing from happening by any means necessary.

The Third Investigation and 
K1-B0 showing off his flashlight (3)
The very next day, Angie's body was discovered in her own lab by Shuichi, Maki, and Tenko. After the body discovery announcement played, K1-B0 rushed in with everyone else and found their student council president deceased. He mourned her death along with the other student council members as the investigation began. Korekiyo suggested that they perform a seance to commune with Angie's spirit, a suggestion that K1-B0, Himiko, Kokichi, and Tenko agreed to, completely unaware that the Ultimate Anthropologist had sinister ulterior motives. However, later during the investigation, the others who helped with the seance decided that because of the fact K1-B0 was a robot, he would be unsuitable for the ritual. As a result, Shuichi took his place and K1-B0 left the room dejected. He would end up heading back to the seance room later on however after another body discovery announcement played only to find Tenko dead as well. Everyone was baffled at there being a second victim, but had to continue their investigation regardless. The room however, was too dark to investigate everything properly. Seeing this, K1-B0 made use of his new flashlight function that Miu installed, illuminating the entire room in a bright light.

K1-B0 printing
During the third trial itself, K1-B0's new function that allowed him to dispense a printout of his own memory would turn out to be a valuable asset, as it allowed him to print out his own memory of seeing the magic circle before it was trampled over and ruined. Seeing this, Shuichi was able to see through Korekiyo's lie and pin him as the culprit of Tenko's murder. Korekiyo accepted the accusation wholeheartedly, claiming that Tenko's death was meaningless and that they had to find the culprit who killed Angie. His confession made many of the students emotional and quick to act, wanting to rush to the vote, but K1-B0 was among those who thought it best to hold off until they've fully solved Angie's murder. In the end, Korekiyo was pinned as the culprit of both murders thanks to the piece of bloody duct tape and the floorboard with dried blood on it. K1-B0 was shocked and baffled at Korekiyo's irrational motivations but then watched with the others as he was executed by Monokuma. Due to everything that had happened, K1-B0 and the other remaining student council members all concluded that there ultimately was no god watching over them in this academy and agreed to work together with everyone else from now on, effectively disbanding Angie's student council.

Later, when everyone headed back to their room after Himiko had tired herself out from crying too much, Kokichi poked fun at the Ultimate Robot yet again, asking if "robots need to leak their oils too". K1-B0 irritatingly responded that he himself does not use oil as his fuel source, as he had stated to the Ultimate Supreme Leader many times already.

K1-B0's Research 
The very next morning following the third class trial, K1-B0 gathered with everyone in the dining hall yet again. The group became disheartened to see how many people they had lost up until now. Monokuma then showed up along with his two remaining Kubs to hand out the next set of random items to unlock more areas with, along with a card key that, according to Monophanie, would be the next motive, though Kokichi stole it and ran off. K1-B0 would search the academy with everyone else for new areas to explore.

One of the new areas that became unlocked would be the Ultimate Robot's Research Lab, which connected to Miu's Research Lab. K1-B0 however, was more disappointed with the lab than anything. He claimed that he detested the sci-fi feel and wished for a more Japanese theme and that he preferred Japanese foods as well despite the fact that he couldn't even eat food due to being a robot. Shuichi also found his choice of preference odd and contradictory, but kept that fact to himself as to not irritate him.

The Gofer Project Meteorites
K1-B0 later regathered with everyone in the dining hall to investigate yet another Flashback Light. Once used on themselves, everyone remembered the meteorites that impacted the Earth and that it was described as being very similar to the meteor impact that wiped out the dinosaurs millions of years ago. They also remembered basic details of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project saying that mankind deserved damnation, and the Gofer Project itself. K1-B0 and the others were worried about the meteorites, but Kaito as per usual, reassured everyone, saying that the meteorites had to have died down if the sky outside was fine.

Neo World 
Miu Iruma being Ironic 2
A couple days later, Miu would gather everyone, K1-B0 included, in the computer room on the fourth floor. She explained to everyone how she had been working on it for the past few days or so and reprogrammed it into a "world without Monokuma or the killing game". In reality however, she was actually plotting her own murder plan in order to escape. With Miu's persuasion, K1-B0 and the others agreed to head into the virtual world after hearing about a supposed secret of the outside world from Monokuma. The amnesiac Monotaro also began to view Miu and K1-B0 as his parents. While Miu was more than happy to accept the claim, K1-B0 was less than thrilled.

The group preparing to go into the Neo World Program
K1-B0 sat down in his chair and put the cords in his own headset, making sure to listen to Miu's explanation. Once K1-B0 logged in with the others, he was disappointed by the fact that he still had a robot body even as an avatar, secretly hoping for more. K1-B0 was punched by Kokichi as soon as he logged in in order to see if they all could still pain, which Miu confirmed as well once she logged in. K1-B0 listened to her explain more aspects about the virtual world such as their avatars senses being connected to their real bodies, objects are unbreakable, and showed them all the map of the world. With this knowledge obtained, everyone then headed to the chapel, making use of a signboard to cross the river. After reaching the chapel, everyone decided to explore the virtual world in order to find the supposed secret Monokuma was referring to. K1-B0 remained with Maki, Himiko, and Miu at the chapel in order to investigate, but Miu followed the other group and threw the signboard in the river to ensure that both groups would remain separate. As time passed and everyone continued to explore and investigate, K1-B0 along with all the others in the virtual world heard a loud crashing sound. Upon leaving the chapel to investigate with Maki and Himiko, they found Miu's avatar unconscious besides the chapel. The trio became increasingly worried and attempted to reunite with the other group only to find the signboard used as a bridge gone thanks to none other than the Ultimate Inventor herself. They were still able to speak with the group exploring the mansion across the river and tell them about what had happened, worrying them as well. The other group was able to find the signboard used as a bridge in the river and place it down as a bridge once again, allowing everyone to regather and log out to make sure that Miu was okay. However, K1-B0 and everyone else were horrified and dumbfounded to find Miu dead in her own chair, dying from the shock of having her avatar killed. K1-B0 was especially saddened by her death due to everything that she had done for him, claiming that although she was brash and spirited, she wasn't a bad person. With that, the investigation began for a fourth time at the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles..

The Fourth Investigation and Class 
During the investigation, K1-B0 continued to ponder just what the secret of the outside world that Monokuma wanted them to find actually was, as nobody found anything suspicious. However, Kokichi jokingly teases him for caring more about the investigation, greatly upsetting K1-B0.

During the class trial, when Gonta was being pinned as the culprit by Kokichi and Shuichi wanted to explore the possibility, K1-B0 was the only other student to stand by them, choosing to think about the situation logically rather than letting emotion overcome him like all the other students were. In the end, K1-B0, Kokichi, and Shuichi turned out to be right about Gonta being the culprit but did not view him as a bad person, saying that it wasn't his fault and that Kokichi must have tricked him. In the end, K1-B0 watched as the kindhearted Gonta was executed by Monokuma. After Kokichi supposedly stated that he enjoyed watching them all suffer, K1-B0 like everyone else viewed him as an outcast and ignored him, being more worried about Kaito who began coughing up an unhealthy amount of blood. Kaito stubbornly reassured everyone that he was fine before leaving the trial grounds. K1-B0 would also leave to get some rest along with all the others.

Down to the Final 
The very next morning, K1-B0 gathered with everyone else in the dining hall. Everyone else was obviously still worried about Kaito, but he once again tried to reassure them that he was fine and they all ate breakfast together. After eating, Kaito wondered just where Kokichi had gone off to after his monologue yesterday. K1-B0 and the others became tense and frightened at the mere mention of the Ultimate Supreme Leader, but everyone said that no one had seen him since yesterday. Monokuma showed up after not too long and passed out the last set of items to unlock new areas in the academy with.

K1-B0 lies down under the press machine
One of the new areas that became unlocked was the Cyber Courtyard and the Exisal Hangar. K1-B0 was the only student to investigate it, but was eventually joined by Shuichi after he finished investigating the Ultimate Astronaut's Research Lab with all the others. K1-B0 and Shuichi were both concerned about the Exisals within the hangar, but Monokuma showed up and told the duo that they were no longer a threat to them due to all the Monokubs having been destroyed. K1-B0 and Shuichi also investigated the press machine and saw that it had a safety mechanism that made it stop if it detected a living organism. K1-B0 and Shuichi both decided to test the press machine, with K1-B0 lying down in it. Shuichi activated the press machine and it slowly began to lower. K1-B0, seeing that Shuichi was not going to stop it on his own, rolled out of it at the very last second to avoid being crushed. Shuichi was relieved that he was okay, but K1-B0 asked him why he did not press the forced stop button. Regardless however, the press did not stop due to the fact that K1-B0 did not count as a "living" organism, much to the Ultimate Robot's dismay.

After everyone had uncovered all the new areas, K1-B0 gathered with everyone in the dining hall at Tsumugi's request, but not to discuss a Flashback Light. Instead, she informed everyone that the message in the courtyard had been completed, "This world is mine. Kokichi Oma". Kaito just wrote it off as Kokichi’s prank, not taking the final message seriously whatsoever. Everyone else seemed to agree with him, though wondered just where Kokichi had gone to and wondered if he took the Flashback Light seeing that none of the others had found it yet.

Clearing the Death Road of 
The next day, after Kaito realized that he didn’t have much time left due to his illness, declared to K1-B0 and the others that they were all going to fight Monokuma the very next morning. He wanted to make good on his promise that he'd get everyone out alive, but needed their help if they were all going to get out of here. He said that now was their chance to finally fight back because the Monokubs were gone, meaning the Exisals would no longer be a threat to them. K1-B0 and the others were was still unsure however due to the academy being completely under Monokuma's control and having numerous spares. Hearing this, Kaito asked them all if they were fine with the way things are now and that if they weren’t, then they had to fight. Eventually, as more and more people became determined by Kaito’s speech, K1-B0 also agreed. Everyone prepared mentally to fight Monokuma that same night.

As planned, K1-B0 and everyone else gathered in the gymnasium at nighttime, with Kaito bringing a vast assortment of weapons from Maki’s Research Lab. While everyone was preparing for battle however, Kokichi suddenly appeared as well and brought with him Miu's memento, the Electrohammers. He offered them to his classmates claiming that he wanted to end the Killing Game as well, but Maki was tired of his deceptive nature and threatened to strangle him once again, asking him just what he was scheming. Maki was eventually stopped by Kaito and the others, dropping Kokichi on the floor. The Ultimate Supreme Leader told everyone that he wouldn't interfere with them any longer before leaving the gym, along with Miu's memento for them to use. K1-B0 and the others were still skeptical, thinking that the hammers might have been trapped, but still had to explore every possibility. With Miu’s memento in hand, everyone headed to the Death Road of Despair. As they stood before the tunnel, K1-B0 and the others remarked that they would finally be able to fulfill Kaede’s wish and escape this Killing Game, making everyone even more determined. With that determination fueling them forward, they headed into the tunnel.

Danganronpa V3 - The remaining survivors standing in front of the exit door
After crossing the Death Road of Despair with Miu’s electrohammers, they came across a large metal hatch which they opened up and discovered the apparent state of the outside world, ruined and destroyed by meteorites, shocking everyone. K1-B0 and the others all became unable to breath and lost consciousness not long after. An unprecedented time afterwards, the hatch closed and everyone woke up. Kokichi appeared and congratulated everyone for discovering the truth of the outside world. He revealed everything to them, that the world was in ruins, and that they were secretly on a giant spaceship that acted as an ark for the last sixteen survivors of humanity, or rather last "seven" survivors of humanity. Afterwards, Kokichi proclaimed himself as the leader of the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project and the one who let Monokuma into the ark, effectively declaring himself as the Mastermind of the Killing School Semester. Everyone was skeptical at first until Kokichi used a universal remote control to make the Exisals do his bidding, further convincing the remaining survivors that he was in fact the Mastermind. Kaito once again becomes outraged with Kokichi and attempted to punch him yet again. However, Kokichi easily incapacitates the Ultimate Astronaut using the Exisals. Maki attempts to attack him as well, but is stopped by Shuichi. Afterwards, Kokichi requests Shuichi to give him back the Exisal Hangar's alarm remote back, a request that he reluctantly complies to for Kaito's own safety. Kokichi declared that everyone was free to do whatever they pleased before leaving them all in a state of despair and taking Kaito hostage in the Exisal Hangar. K1-B0 and everyone else were left in utter despair at this revelation, unsure of what to do now that everything had been revealed and turned out to be meaningless.

Hope 
Two days later, Maki would attempted to gather everyone barring Kaito and Kokichi in the dining hall to inspect a newly discovered Flashback Light. Everyone aside from Maki wasn't sure what the point of examining the Flashback Light even was anymore thanks to everything already having been revealed, but decided that they may as well use it just to not leave any stones unturned. Upon using it, K1-B0 and everyone else remembered that they were all students of Hope's Peak Academy, that the cult trying to stop The Gofer Project was actually the Remnants of Despair, and that Kokichi was their leader. With this memory perfectly etched into their memories, they all vowed to save Kaito, stop Kokichi, and end the Killing Game once and for all. More determined than ever before, everyone planned to storm the Exisal Hangar the very next day after charging their Electrohammers.

K1-B0 spotting Himiko Yumeno walking into the Hanger
Later that same day however, K1-B0 would witness Himiko from his own Lab, carrying a large black case into the Cyber Courtyard. He wasn't sure what she was holding or what she was doing, but found it oddly suspicious nonetheless. As it turns out, she was bringing Kaito a crossbow and a single arrow at his request. K1-B0's witness testimony would turn out to be a valuable clue during the upcoming Class Trial.

The very next day, with their Electrohammers fully charged, K1-B0 and the others began their assault on the Exisal Hangar, using an Electrobomb that Maki had snatched from Kokichi two days earlier to open the shutter. As soon as they entered the hangar itself however, they were all shocked to find a body crushed beyond recognition underneath the hydraulic press, the only clue as to who the victim could be being Kaito's sleeve hanging out from underneath it while Kokichi had seemingly gone missing. Everyone is horrified at the thought of having lost Kaito as the investigation begins.

During the investigation, K1-B0 searched outside of the hangar due to not feeling well from the effects of the Electrobomb. Although everyone thought that it was probably because he was a robot, he claimed that that was a robophobic remark and that it was simply an "allergic reaction". Later on, he would investigate the bathroom inside the hangar. More specifically, he investigated the toilet, reaching down the drain to discover Kokichi's clothes flushed. He quickly informed Shuichi of his discovery after he had finished investigating his own and Maki's Research Lab. He was quite stunned at K1-B0's discovery, but found it awkward to shake his hand after having reached into a toiler to find this evidence. As a result, they both decided to wash their hands and leave the bathroom, the investigation officially ending not long after.

The Fifth Class 
During the Class Trial, K1-B0 along with everyone else were still confused about their current state of beginning a Class Trial with two missing people, but Monokuma reassured them that it's fine and that the one missing person is "on standby in the back". When that supposed missing person arrives riding an Exisal and supposedly pretended to be Kaito before "revealing" themselves as Kokichi, K1-B0, along with everyone else, believes that Kaito must have been the victim until later on in the trial, where the voice coming out of the Exisal changed to match Kaito's again. K1-B0 along with Himiko and Tsumugi believed that the victim could have been Kokichi and that the one riding the Exisal was Kaito. Although Shuichi and Maki thought that they disproved this claim, it is later revealed that K1-B0 was originally right near the end of the trial and that the one inside the Exisal was in fact Kaito carrying on Kokichi's will.

K1-B0, along with everyone else, was rendered depressed, stunned and silenced at the fact that Kaito ended up being the culprit of Kokichi's murder. However, he reassured everyone to smile, send him off in style, and that he won't accept their tears before proudly accepting his execution, but choosing to die on his own terms and not Monokuma's. During his execution, however, a bit of rubble was kicked up, knocking off K1-B0's "connector" to the outside world, making him unable him to hear the audience's voice, causing him to malfunction.

Keebo about to go on rampage
While everyone else gathered in the courtyard for training, intent on carrying on Kaito's will, K1-B0 decided to go to his lab and equip the jet pack and laser gun that were in there. Although he detested such technology, he decided that he could not longer stick to idealism and as such, resolved himself to destroy The Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, believing it to be seeped in Despair.

K1-B0's 
Awakened K1-B0
The now upgraded K1-B0 began his relentless assault, attacking the school indiscriminately, flying about and shooting lasers all over. Everyone else were shocked and frightened to discover the academy coming under fire from the Ultimate Robot. The group ran to the front of the school to try and get K1-B0's attention. He eventually hovered down towards them, stopping his assault, and asked him what they wanted and to keep this brief. When asked, K1-B0 said that no matter where they go, Despair will be right around the corner. As a result, he was determined to destroy the school even if it meant that he himself and everyone else would die. Shuichi was eventually able to turn his way of thinking around, but only until dawn. K1-B0 threatened everyone that if they could not find the truth behind this Killing Game before dawn breaks, he will continue his destruction of the academy. Monokuma and the rebuilt Monokubs in their respective Exisals eventually showed up to try and stop his assault, declaring that the Killing Game cannot be ended. With that, the others ran into the school for cover while K1-B0 tried to hold the Exisals off until dawn.

Despite K1-B0's extreme actions however, he still reassured everyone that he was not their enemy, as he still aided the students in any way he could, such as showing up to distract other wandering Exisals, and blowing open locked rooms such as Rantaro's Research Lab and the hidden room in the library. All of this ensured that the remaining survivors would be able to discover the truth behind this Killing Game. He also told Shuichi of something odd he had seen on the second floor classroom and advised him to investigate. What K1-B0 saw ended up being a machine to create Flashback Lights with, another valuable clue.

Shuichi Saihara in the midst of K1-B0 and the Exisals's fight
After finding the entire truth, Shuichi headed out to the courtyard to stop K1-B0's and Monokuma's fighting, telling both groups that they were going to hold a Class Trial. K1-B0 was skeptical at this, but Shuichi reassured him that this was a Class Trial that would end the Killing Game. Everyone else also showed up, equally as confused about what was going on. Monokuma however, agreed to Shuichi's terms but only on the condition that they would be responsible for this Class Trial if it ended up being disappointing. K1-B0 however, was told by Monokuma that he had to take off his armaments before being allowed into the trial grounds. While the Ultimate Robot was reluctant to do so, Shuichi reassured him that he was indeed trying to end the Killing Game. Hearing this, K1-B0 headed to his lab with the Monokubs to remove his equipment while also having his antenna fixed, allowing him to hear his inner voice once again.

K1-B0 looking into the Bugvac
K1-B0 later rejoined everyone at the Shrine of Judgement, feeling extremely guilty for his actions as he was now able to hear his inner voice once again. Shuichi found the "inner voice" he had been constantly mentioning odd and noticed that his hair resembled an antenna, he made sure to keep this deduction in mind for later. K1-B0 also noticed the bugvac that Maki was carrying and asked to inspect it. When he did, he used his zoom-in function to finaly discover the "tiny insects" that Gonta was always seeing, the Nanokumas. K1-B0 threatened to crush the tiny Monokuma units if they did not explain to the survivors what their purpose was. The Nanokumas agreed to the Ultimate Robot's terms and told him that they were a part of the Monokubs and were the surveillance cameras of the entire campus, acting as a swarm and sending any footage they receive wirelessly to Motherkuma. With this final clue in hand, everyone headed to the trial grounds one last time with every intent on ending the Killing Game once and for all.

The Final Class 
K1-B0, along with fellow survivors Himiko, Tsumugi, and Maki, at Shuichi's recomendation, decided to re-open Rantaro's case after discovering new truths related to his murder. Once Shuichi revealed Rantaro's talent as the Ultimate Survivor, and proved that Kaede did in fact not murder him and was executed unjustly, he realized that the Mastermind has to be one of them. In order to find out who, Shuichi recommended that they all double-check everyone's alibis during Rantaro's murder, which finally allowed Shuichi to hone in on Tsumugi as the true culprit and Mastermind of the Killing School Semester.

K1-B0 along with the other survivors were confused and shocked that the Ultimate Cosplayer could have gone through with such a plan while she denies the claim vehemently. Shuichi, however, made it very clear that Tsumugi was the only person who could have murdered Rantaro by using the hidden passageway in the girls' bathroom, which led into the hidden room that connected to the library. She attempted to pin the blame on K1-B0 since he was not present for when they interacted with Motherkuma, but Shuichi is quick to call her out on not giving the command of "birth" which would have triggered Motherkuma's voice recognition software and created another Monokuma. Realizing that she had been cornered, Tsumugi finally dropped her act and revealed herself as "Junko Enoshima the 53rd".

Tsumugi, now cosplaying as Junko, went on to state that she simply wanted to reproduce her own Killing Game and that there was nobody watching. Shuichi however, did not believe this claim due to their contradicting memories, as well as the facts regarding Kokichi and Rantaro that also conflicted with their memories of the Hope's Peak Academy Saga. As a result, Shuichi was able to determine that everyone's memories of being students at Hope's Peak Academy, The Gofer Project, and shouldering their friends and families burdens as mankind's last hope, was all a false memory planted into their brains by the Flashback Light. Tsumugi then revealed that everything they remembered about attending Hope's Peak Academy and the outside world being destroyed was a lie and that the Flashback Lights were actually tools to implant new memories, not tools to help you remember. What the participants remembered about Kokichi being a part of the Remnants of Despair was a lie as well, much to everyone's shock.

In reality, the circumstances behind their Killing Game were far more cruel. After proving her talent fully as the Ultimate Cosplayer by cosplaying as the participants of the Killing School Life and the Killing School Trip, Tsumugi revealed that everything that took place in the Hope's Peak Academy Saga was nothing more than fictional events from a very popular anime and video game franchise known as Danganronpa. She also revealed that their entire Killing Game had been broadcasted to a very peaceful world that were completely obsessed with Killing Games, essentially revealing that everything they've been through as a reality-TV show and "Ultimate Real Fiction". She told them all that she herself was a part of Team Danganronpa, a company that makes the "finest killing entertainment" and that everyone loves their work.

While K1-B0 along with the other survivors were quick to oppose Tsumugi and Monokuma, they both revealed that the participants of the Killing School Semester are also "fictional characters", whose memory, personality, feelings, and talent were all fabricated by the Flashback Lights in order to provide exciting characters for the Killing Game. To back up her claim, Tsumugi showed Shuichi's, Kaede's, and Kaito's supposed audition videos for the Killing Game, showing that they were all very twisted or outright depressed people that, like the audience watching, were obsessed with Danganronpa to the point where they willingly participated in the Killing Game. Everyone became shocked at this sudden revelation and subsequently fell into Despair, unsure of what to do now that everything so far had been revealed to be lies.

Hope or 
K1-B0's introduction as the Ultimate Hope Robot
K1-B0 however reassured everyone not to lose Hope, stating that that was what his "inner voice" was telling him and that if this was the "Ultimate Real Fiction", then not all of it could be fictional and that there must be something they could do. Tsumugi corrected him and said that the voice he had been hearing this entire time was actually the voice of the people watching this Killing Game, an audience survey. She continued to state that he was nothing more than an interactive communication device and camera for the viewers to interact with and participate in the game themselves. Despite this however, K1-B0 refused to give up on Hope and stated that the people in the outside world don't want Despair, earning him the title of Ultimate Hope Robot (超高校級の「希望 ロボット」chō kōkō kyū no "kibō robotto" lit. Super High School Level Hope Robot). Tsumugi meanwhile refused to give up on Despair and stated that a world that enjoys killings could not possibly desire Hope. In true Danganronpa fashion, they decided to settle this with one final, special vote where K1-B0 represented Hope and Tsumugi represented Despair. K1-B0 was willing to sacrifice himself if it means his friends could survive, hearing this, Maki also decided that she would willing sacrifice herself along with K1-B0 if it means that Shuichi and Himiko could live despite the fact that there was supposedly nothing left for them in the outside world.

Shuichi however, saw through the charade and cut in, saying that neither choice was correct and that choosing Hope would do nothing but cause the Killing Game to continue, which he and K1-B0 were able to deduce thanks to the late Rantaro's circumstances. Because of this, Shuichi decided to stop playing along and abandoned his vote, hoping to end Danganronpa once and for all by willingly sacrificing his own life, much to Tsumugi's and Monokuma's chagrin. This caused K1-B0 to question his feelings of wanting Hope and doubt the inner voice that had guided him all this time. In the end, K1-B0 decided that even if his inner voice told him not to give up on hope, that he could not trust it if it demanded more tragedy from them, angering Tsumugi and the audience. Eventually, Shuichi convinced everyone else to abandon their vote as well but K1-B0, in a last ditch effort to keep Danganronpa going, was taken over by the audience. Seeing this, Tsumugi laughed, proud to show that the audience did not wish for Danganronpa to end and explained that they supposedly deleted K1-B0's personality that kept getting in the way. K1-B0 was able to take brief control again and told his fellow survivors that their choice is not the wrong one and that they can indeed change the world through him before the audience took him over again. Despite Tsumugi telling the others that what they're doing is pointless, Shuichi refused to give up, still exclaiming that he will end Danganronpa and that their lives are not just show-things for their amusement.

K1-B0's 
Confident that his voice reached the outside world through K1-B0, Shuichi and everyone else abandoned their vote. Tsumugi however, bent the rules one last time and abandoned her vote too, which she revealed after everyone else did. Shuichi, Maki, and Himiko are immediately confused and worried as to why she abandoned her vote as well. Tsumugi stated that if they're going to risk their lives to end Danganronpa, then she would risk her life to make it continue. Tsumugi was confident that Danganronpa would continue after abandoning her vote, meaning only K1-B0's vote would have any power as he was still being controlled by the outside world. She even went as far as to describe a new plot-line for him in the next Killing Game.

K1-B0 about to begin the final execution (2)
When Monokuma displayed the results of the final voting, Tsumugi became shocked to discover that no one had voted, not even K1-B0, proving that the audience did not want Danganronpa to continue. Tsumugi panicked and tried to make everyone reconsider, but it is no use as the monitors all turn off, the audience no longer showing any interest. Tsumugi, upon realizing that Danganronpa was indeed over and done with, promptly lost all of her hope in living as she denied a world without Danganronpa, but had not prepared a proper execution beforehand and as such left it to K1-B0.

K1-B0 did not hesitate and proceeded to execute everything, killing Monokuma and Tsumugi, who waved at the camera with a look of disappointment on her face before being flattened under rubble inadvertently caused by K1-B0, ending the Killing Game for good. After making sure that his fellow survivors were still alive, K1-B0 smiled, activated his self-destruct button, began flying towards the glass dome and exploded, promptly destroying the dome and allowing his friends to escape into the outside world.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 6 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 6 Execution

Once the final execution had ended, the three remaining survivors, Shuichi, Maki, and Himiko, wondered why K1-B0 had let them live since he was acting on the will of the outside world. Shuichi concludes that it must have been the outside world's will to let them live since K1-B0 was acting on their will.

Creation and 
K1-B0, along with Maki Harukawa and Kaito Momota, was one of the first new characters revealed for Danganronpa V3 in November 2015 and he was speculated as a possible main character. However, their names and talents weren't revealed until ten months later in September 2016.


In the original Japanese, his name is written as キーボ but romanized "Ki-Bo", although the correct pronunciation for キーボ is actually "Kiibo", as "ー" is used in Japanese to denote a prolonged vowel. If his name's spelling is adjusted to actually be pronounced "Ki-Bo", it could be spelt as キボー (Kibō), which is a pun on the word 希望 (kibō) meaning hope.

In the English localization, the spelling of his name is changed to "K1-B0", a naming convention which is a reference to the names of robot characters in the Star Wars franchise such as R2-D2 and C3-P0. Although he states his name is pronounced "K-One-B-Zero", K1-B0 prefers people to pronounce it "Keebo", maintaining the original Japanese "kibō" pun.

His name in the Chinese localization is "機望" (jīwàng), which sounds very similar to hope in Chinese, "希望" (xīwàng). It also carries another pun, with 機 (jī) meaning "machine" or "mechanism", relating to the fact that he is a robot.

Alternate 
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), K1-B0 was chased around in by Kokichi Oma in the storage room. He tried to protect himself from being touched by the Ultimate Supreme Leader. After Kaede Akamatsu and Makoto Naegi entered the room, K1-B0 introduced himself and told his backstory as Professor Idabashi's creation. He proudly said that despite being a robot, he is a normal high schooler.

Before the class trial start, K1-B0 found out that the stands were too few for eighteen people and Monokuma decided to get rid of two people. K1-B0 who automatically voted out by Kokichi became flustered and asked not to decide something important all by himself. However, he eventually ended up becoming an observer alongside Rantaro Amami and didn't participate in the class trial until the end of the demo.


K1-B0 is a robot, therefore having a fully mechanical body structurally engineered to, in shape, resemble a human being. His body is mostly made up of metallic, armored plating, not wearing actual clothing, but resembling a gakuran, a school uniform worn by male high school students. He has four glowing buttons that run from his chest to his stomach down the middle of his torso, a metallic left breast pocket, and something that resembles a belt around his waist, two red buttons attached.

As a robot, K1-B0 is considered sexless and lacks the means to have reproductive functions, but still appears masculine via physically and the voice of a teenaged boy. His face has very pale skin. His eyebrows press closely to his round, mechanical blue eyes, making it appear that his brows are a part of his eyes. Thick black lines run from around his eyes and down his cheeks to reach his chin. He can make his eyes glow a bright yellow or blue and emit light. He has a tongue, but it doesn't seem to have any other purpose than speaking, as he cannot actually eat food. He has white hair that is very sharp and swayed to the left, along with the very large ahoge on the top of his head.

K1-B0 possesses a very tall, round and metallic collar around his neck, his previous school's emblem on the left side of his collar. A thin strip of screen wraps all the way around it, displaying a constantly changing string of green text. A softer black material covers his neck entirely, but he is capable of moving it up to cover the lower half of his face to resemble a face mask. The collar is usually open in the middle, but is able to clip the two metallic parts together to protect the area of his neck entirely. He doesn't seem to have actual ears, but black, headphone shaped objects in the area around them. He can use his ears to take recordings and play them out loud.

Later, it is revealed that K1-B0's ahoge is an antenna that receives information from Team Danganronpa, which will take the form of an "inner voice" and persuade him to take certain actions, said actions being decided through viewers' surveys.

In the prologue, he wears the uniform of his original high school, including a student hat. It's a plain, black gakuran with white buttons buttoned down the middle and on his cuffs, and he wears black gloves. His uniform is a bit too small for him, his jacket described as "bulging as if it's about to burst" due to the robotic body underneath it. Still, he looks more human, lacking some of his more mechanical traits such as the black lines on his face and the black headphone shaped ears on the sides of his head.


K1-B0 is a polite and serious teenage robot, who has some trouble with human social interaction, and often comes across as unintentionally comical as a result. According to Kazutaka Kodaka, K1-B0 has both cute and cool characteristics, with him being socially awkward but serious.Nevertheless, K1-B0 takes pride in his form and often boasts about his wonderfulness and efficient functions, though the other students never seem to find them impressive much to his disappointment. His aim is to overcome being an ordinary robot and because of this, he may get offended if he is compared to much more simple machines. While generally well-mannered, he is quickly angered by any prejudice against robots and sometimes threatens to sue people who make "discriminatory remarks". He considers robots a minority group among humans and can get slightly paranoid about "robophobia", supposedly because of past experiences. However, ironically, he himself is shown acting condescending and perpetrating "robot-on-robot abuse" towards simpler machines such as the robots with Monokuma's likeness, considering them mere stuffed animals who are beneath him.

Since he is a maturing AI, K1-B0 learns and develops similarly to a human, making him an unique existence.While he has no heart nor brain, he uses his calculations to speak "as if he had a heart". Even still, he often can't read the mood around him and is oblivious to things, sometimes taking things very literally and occasionally acting insensitive. Due to being overly serious about certain topics and unable to understand sarcasm, he is an easy target for bullying and it's easy to make him heated up, and he is rather easy to read. According to Izuru Kamukura in the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, K1-B0 has a tendency to rely on others in difficult situations, and he overall gets very nervous in bad situations. Furthermore, he feels a bit self-conscious about the fact that he cannot strengthen his body on his own like humans, and he needs help for maintenance and upgrades. Overall, he is a bit conscious about being unable to do some things humans can, causing him to act condescending towards humans at times and proclaim that he can do lots of things humans cannot. In Chapter 4, when the students enter the program world, K1-B0 appears disappointed and secretly wished he would have a human body. In Chapter 5, he is seen wondering his existence and being very interested in whether or not he is considered a person by the hydraulic press' safety function and Miu's Electrohammers, and even wants to test them despite the risk. In one scene, he is scared of the idea of a huge mecha suddenly appearing, not realizing the irony of it. He himself has also pointed out that he doesn't really like "sci-fi" things, even though his existence alone is quite sci-fi, and he would rather be more like other people instead of possessing things like rocket jets. He greatly loves Japanese culture, including Japanese food (though he can only look at it), kimonos and wind chimes. However, he also feels insecure about being too ordinary and not deserving his title as the Ultimate Robot, which is why he has a dream of becoming a pop star or doing some other type of work. For a short time, he even considers becoming a "tragic hero" figure in order to become more interesting, with a new tragic backstory and weapons, even though it's not something he would like. In general, he has a strong desire to be accepted and be like everyone else.

K1-B0 seems to understand most human emotions and many of their habits, though some of them only in theory, and he prefers to make decisions and actions based on logic. He claims that he works very hard every day to understand human emotions, and he's often quite hurt and saddened whenever the other students tell him that he wouldn't understand something because he is a robot. He tends to find abstract ideas frustrating and difficult, and sometimes has a hard time understanding why someone would do something that is very illogical. In general, he can get confused and a bit uncomfortable by his strange classmates, and sometimes reminds them to speak in a way he can understand. He can also get some habits a little wrong, like confusing the action of handholding and handshaking. Like a human, he blushes when he is feeling shy and feels awkward when talking about something inappropriate, though occasionally he may say inappropriate things without realizing it due to his naivety. For example, he considers nudity very shameful and embarrassing, but doesn't seem to see anything inappropriate in going to the bathroom, as he sometimes casually tells his classmates they're free to do that if they are close to a bathroom or even telling them they can do it right there even if they're in public surrounded by people, seemingly trying to be polite with this gesture. He can be very expressive with his body language since as a robot he can move his ahoge and some other parts according to his emotions. Being a robot, he is also very innocent when compared to most teenagers, and some situations make him very nervous and shy. In Chapter 3, he claims he is ticklish and it's implied that he might be able to feel pleasure similar to sexual pleasure when sensitive spots underneath his armor get touched. In general, he doesn't seem to have very much interest in sexual matters, considering it quite scandalous and claiming at one point that he would never expose professor Idabashi's strong AI to pornography. He has also bashfully pointed out that there isn't much he can do about it anyway, since he lacks any reproductive functions. However, he secretly seems to have some interest in such subjects, as he once accidentally admitted this without thinking. When he is asked about his ability to fall in love, he says he doesn't know because he hasn't had any romantic feelings yet. In the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, it's eventually confirmed that he can fall in love and dreams of romance and intimacy. In the topic of romance, K1-B0 is shown to find the idea that robots should only date their own kind very offensive. When he does develop romantic feelings, he is shown to be very serious and surprisingly bold about the matter, assuming that you constantly have to do typical things couples do and be very dedicated in order to truly understand love. However, he is simultaneously very shy about the subject, as he gets very embarrassed, blushes a lot and stutters when he just asks to hold hands. He also seems to consider the maintenance Miu performs on his body very intimate and he is very embarrassed about it at first, especially if it's mentioned in front of others, as if it is a sexual relationship (though, it does resemble a one). While he doesn't speak to Miu in explicitly romantic manner, he does care about her a lot and even gets jealous of a computer.

Overall, K1-B0 appears to be quite well-meaning and kind, and he genuinely wishes to be friends with everyone (even considering Kokichi his friend during the bonus mode). He has mentioned multiple times that he wishes to make people smile and happy. He even likes comedy movies, because he enjoys the feeling of people having fun and wishes to become a robot who can make lots of people smile someday, like a comedy movie. He is also pacifistic and refuses to hurt humans, greatly respecting the First Law of Robotics, and in general dislikes violence and weapons. He also dislikes certain action movies for the way they portray robots as evil and murderous killing machines, considering it robophobic since most robots are friendly to humans. During the bonus mode, when Shuichi suggests making their own movie, K1-B0 would like to make a drama about hero stuff, which would be popular with children. K1-B0 wants to be the fearless hero while Shuichi would be the innocent citizen he saves from a villain.

K1-B0 often serves as the butt of jokes and is rarely taken seriously by the other students, which isn't helped by his somewhat wimpy and oversensitive personality, but he gets increasingly confident throughout the game and begins to motivate others and talk about hope and defeating despair, especially after remembering Hope's Peak Academy. During Kaito's execution, he even leaps forward to protect his friends with his more durable body. Furthermore, with his logical way of thinking, he quite often makes correct arguments and points out important things, not letting feelings cloud his judgement. He is willing to approach even unpleasant topics, such as the possibility of Gonta being the murderer, for the sake of reaching a logical conclusion and he tends to stay calm and sensible whenever most other students get too emotional to argue properly. Some of this could be a result of his "inner voice"—voices inside his head that guide him in difficult situations. He decides to listen to them more firmly after hearing Angie Yonaga's talk about God, treating his inner voice as his God who gives him advice and cheers for him. When he's mocked for being a robot who believes in God, he says robots can do that. When his ahoge gets broken by Kaito's execution, the voices get silent, causing everything to get "too quiet" for him and forcing him to use his own logic. It's later revealed that his ahoge is actually an antenna that receives information from Team Danganronpa, which will take the form of an "inner voice" and persuade him to take certain actions, said actions being decided through viewers' surveys.

When forced to make his own decisions without the inner voice, K1-B0 proves himself to extremely forceful and pragmatic, choosing the school's destruction and not submitting to Monokuma's expectations as the most efficient way of eradicating despair. As a result of his significantly increased power and change in behavior, he becomes much more serious and no longer displays his comical traits, with him downright ignoring some of the other students' words he considers irrelevant, such as Himiko's talk about magic and making him a real boy. He even states that he no longer has the luxury to yearn for being accepted and be just like everyone else, which used to be his major dream. After getting his ahoge back, he is back to his usual self and extremely remorseful for his extreme and dangerous actions. He apologizes to his friends, expecting that they won't allow him to side with them anymore, and is very touched when they do. However, after the experience, K1-B0 realized that his true power as the Ultimate Robot is his ability improve in a way that is impossible to humans. As a result, he finally seems to accept himself and begins to act more confident, as he is convinced he can use his power to save everyone.

During the final trial, despite having his inner voice back, K1-B0 refused to listen to it anymore and instead wished to support his friends and not have any more suffering. He was originally strongly on the side of hope, which was his role and purpose, but he abandoned the concept after Shuichi convinced him that it would lead to more Killing Games and suffering. Because of this, the Audience took control of him and attempted to completely erase his personality, but he still managed to destroy the school and the End Wall, saving his friends with the cost of his own life. It was left ambiguous whether it was K1-B0's own doing or caused by the change of heart in the Audience. Before he exploded, K1-B0 was seen giving a final smile after making sure his friends had survived.


Ultimate 
K1-B0 is a robot equipped with high technology and advanced functions created by Team Danganronpa as the "eyes" of Danganronpa audience from the outside world.

Danganronpa V3 K1-B0 Keebo Ki-Bo Introduction (Demo Version)
K1-B0 has a "maturing AI" that boasts advanced learning functions and recording functions. Similar to a human, he originally knew nothing and matured by learning. He uses calculations to express emotions, but he is very socially awkward when compared to humans. According to K1-B0, his strong AI was programmed such that his mental age would reflect his appearance.

He works with electricity, and thus he does not need to and cannot eat nor drink. Despite this, he likes foods and explains that he watches eating and drinking, with Japanese food being his favorite. He also can't sleep, but he needs to reserve time for recharging his power cells. He is conscious while charging and needs to do it only once a week. While he does not breath, he can sense and dislikes polluted air, though this ability is only as sensitive as ordinary human's. As a robot, he is much more durable than a human, but his durability is still stated to be very questionable for an Ultimate Robot. Unlike some machines, he is waterproof, but he cannot swim because he would sink like a rock. His creator also forbade him from staying too long in direct sunlight.

He was created to have many functions and lots of energy in a small body, and for a robot, he is not very heavy, as he can be lifted up like an average human. He is not very strong either and is actually quite feeble, and there is a running gag that many of his physical skills like strength, accuracy, and endurance are equivalent to elderly people or elementary students. He himself points out that many of his abilities, like intelligence and strength, are meant to be close to ordinary humans or even slightly below average. He originally possessed much greater strength, but it was weakened after an accident during trial production. As a result, he cannot lift things that even an average person would be able to and he easily suffers from back pain. In case of some sort of emergency, he also has an emergency stop button on his neck, which renders him practically unconscious until the button is pressed again.

During the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan and his Free Time Events, he states that his eyesight is 20/13, and he possesses a hairdryer function by exhaling warm, loud "breath" from his mouth. His hands can turn into a multi-tool, with them possessing 20 different tools. For example, his finger can detect wafting aromas and distinguish different scents. He also has a music player and capability to play even tapes and records. At one point, he also mentions being good at one-man comedy shows, but not being good with computers. He also has an audio recording function but refrains from using it regularly because of its extensive energy consumption. After Miu Iruma starts performing maintenance on him, he is upgraded with eye flashlights and a photographic camera. When he needs to display information stored in his memory, he prints it from his mouth. Notably, he is also unable to cry and shed proper tears even if he wanted to. In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, he asks Miu to give him the ability to cry tears, so that he could have a better understanding of the feelings of sorrow.

Being a robot, K1-B0 lacks any reproductive organs, which is something Kokichi makes fun of. Miu has mentioned her wish to upgrade him with a one, but it's unclear if this ever happened, as K1-B0 has been shown to decline some of her suggestive suggestions like a vibration function. Nevertheless, he seems to feel pleasure similar to sexual pleasure if some sensitive spots underneath his armor get touched, causing him to make "cute noises". While he obviously has no underwear, he has built-in parts around his hips that regulate the temperature and humidity of his delicate parts. It's a system that he has to switch every day and wash before reusing, so it's stated to be pretty much like underwear.

His Research Labs contains many battle upgrades he decides to install in after being forced to make his own decision due to losing his connection to his inner voice. As a result, he is very powerful and was capable of battling five Exisals at the same time in Chapter 6. However, while very powerful, his rocket launcher cannot do very precise work and instead does massive damage to one spot. While he is shown being capable of giving a very powerful kick, he states that he still cannot lift very heavy objects. It's also stated that he cannot hold on for too long in his fight against the Exisals, as he would eventually be destroyed after some hours. Thanks to his upgrades, he also possessed advanced hearing and zooming functions, though it seems he could only activate them when he stopped to concentrate.

In chapter 6, it was revealed that his eyes are video-cameras, his ahoge is an antenna and his inner voice are the results of interactive polls made on the outside world. While he normally listens to the inner voice, he decides to ignore them after Shuichi convinces him that it would lead to more suffering, and K1-B0 is seen rejecting his original duty out of his own will. Because of this, the Audience attempts to take control of him and erase his personality. It's unclear if his final actions are his own doing or caused by the Audience's change of heart.

In other 
K1-B0's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

 Ultimate Robot
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「ロボット」	Super High School Level Robot
Français Robot Ultime	Ultimate Robot
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的機器人	Super High School Level Robot
中文 超高中级的机器人	Super High School Level Robot

Creator:
Professor 
Professor Idabashi is K1-B0's creator and raised him as his own child. K1-B0 respects the professor's skills, despite the fact that they aren't an Ultimate, and considers him his father.

After becoming trapped into the killing game, K1-B0 mentions that the professor would desperately search for him if he went missing, proving how close they are.

In his Free Time Events, K1-B0 reveals that he used to have a "past life" when he didn't develop correctly, suddenly went rogue and seriously injured the professor. He felt massive guilt and sadness as a result, his AI suddenly resetting as if committing a suicide. K1-B0 has no memories of this and believes he must have wanted to be reborn as the professor's child. In his Harmonius Heart event, it's shown that K1-B0 still feels guilty and thinks the professor might resent him because of the incident.

However, in Chapter 6, K1-B0 is revealed to be a creation of Team Danganronpa to monitor over the Killing Game and give the viewers a way to interact. Because of this, and considering that all the other participants' memories were fabricated as well, it is unknown whether or not Professor Idabashi actually exists and if he does he works for Team Danganronpa.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Miu 
With Miu being quite disliked in the group, K1-B0 appears to be the only student, other than Kaede and Gonta, who genuinely likes her and wishes to be friends with her.

At first, Miu considered K1-B0 pathetic for being so weak, offering to upgrade him later (and especially wishing to upgrade his crotch area). Because he is a robot, Miu took a special interest in K1-B0 and even feels sexual attraction towards him, though it's unclear if he is aware of this. Since K1-B0 was unable to take care of his body by himself, Miu was very excited to offer her help. However, K1-B0 felt very embarrassed and shy about it, considering it very intimate and saying they shouldn't do it so soon. In Chapter 3, Miu seems to finally convince K1-B0 and she begins to perform maintenance on him in a rather suggestive manner they both seem to find very pleasurable, with K1-B0 making "cute noises" whenever Miu touches a sensitive spot. Her intense personality makes K1-B0 feel very shy and he blushes a lot due to Miu's compliments and remarks. Miu, in turn, thinks he's very cute with his shyness and cute noises, and while she usually prefers to be submissive, she seems to enjoy being dominating towards K1-B0.

When K1-B0's Ultimate Research Lab was revealed, Miu was very excited to upgrade him even more, saying he would look so pretty with them and that she wants him to make lots of cute noises. This causes K1-B0 to blush heavily and tell her not to mention that in front of Shuichi, who was with them at the time. Being very interested in K1-B0's talent and features, Miu went inside his lab without his permission. Besides that, she added many new features to K1-B0, such as a flashlight that came out from his eyes. She also wishes to give him a vibration function, but he declined, seemingly understanding at least some of her suggestive remarks.

While Miu is very openly attracted to K1-B0 and seems to think their relationship is something similar to being a couple, it's a bit unclear how he feels about her, as he doesn't really speak of her in an explicitly romantic manner like he does with Shuichi in the bonus mode Love Across the Universe. He does not seem to be fully aware of some of her implications, but genuinely cares about her and is very grateful for her help. It is also possible that he likes her back, but isn't fully aware of it. In Chapter 3, when Miu praises a computer in a suggestive manner, K1-B0 is seen to get silently jealous. K1-B0 is shown to be nicer and more sympathetic towards Miu than the most other students, though Miu is occasionally rude towards him, and K1-B0 understandably doesn't seem to have complete trust in her intentions at times. When at one point Miu pointed out that robots aren't people, K1-B0 didn't appear as offended as usual and said he would let the remark slide, showing that he has more patience with her.

K1-B0 was shocked when he discovered Miu's corpse in Chapter 4 and he was the only one to still speak fondly of her even after the chapter. After her death, he states that he wishes he could cry, but Miu never gave him a crying function. During the trial, he mentions that he believes Miu was a good person based on the time they spent together, despite some of her personality traits. Later, in Chapter 5, he wistfully talks to Shuichi about how genuine Miu was with machines and technology, and that she had natural innocence she hid deep inside her, indicating that she showed her true self more openly in his company. However, when the students are introduced to the Electro Hammers, K1-B0 appears to genuinely wonder whether or not they will affect him and if Miu considered him just a robot.

In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, the two appear to be close as well, and Miu takes care of K1-B0's maintenance for their three high school years. K1-B0 tells her how grateful he is and that he will miss being able to ask her in the future. Miu is very offended by this, asking K1-B0 why he's going to throw her away and assumes that he has other partners than her. K1-B0 tries to explain they're graduating soon, but Miu is still angry. He then tells her that it would be good to have someone like her who is good with technology to care for him. Miu answers that he can stay in her place and the two agree to continue their usual habit, with K1-B0 thanking Miu in advance.

Kokichi 
Kokichi enjoys teasing K1-B0 due to him being oblivious and a robot, thus making him an easy target. K1-B0 is very uncomfortable with Kokichi because of this and repeatedly asks him to stop. He freguently refers to the robot as "Kee-boy", even though he said he’d rather be called Keebo.

However, Kokichi does not really appear to have a malicious intent, as he seems genuinely interested in K1-B0. His behavior seems more like ignorance and innocent bigotry, as he seemingly considers robots very interesting and "cool", but he thinks they aren't people and thus he does not treat K1-B0 like a person. Kokichi is seen being very excited about K1-B0, wanting to be friends with "the robot" and childishly chasing him in an attempt to touch him, seemingly not realizing that his behavior is offensive and condescending. He also curiously asks about how the robot functions, like asking about his private parts, and seems disappointed if the answers are much duller than he expected. He is shown to very disappointed that K1-B0 doesn't have a rocket punch function, wondering why he even exits.

Kokichi is later seen treating K1-B0 in cruel and mean manner throughout the game, though at one point he seems genuinely surprised by the idea that K1-B0 might genuinely understand human emotions. He constantly brings up how K1-B0 is different from the others and isn't a person, and points out his difficulties with understanding human emotions. While K1-B0 is usually quite well-mannered, he acts harsher towards Kokichi because of his constant discrimination. Considering him a "robophobe", K1-B0 thinks Kokichi should be just ignored, yet he almost never manages to follow this rule.

In the end of the class trial in Chapter 4, K1-B0 was seen being angry and annoyed when he figured out that Kokichi was the one who manipulated Gonta into killing Miu.

Notably, after Kokichi's death and hearing his last words from Kaito, K1-B0 is the one who seems to believe that his dying words may have been the honest truth and not a lie. Considering his inner voice, he was very likely right.

During the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, after spending three years as Kokichi's classmate, K1-B0 admits that he considers Kokichi his friend though he isn't fond of his robophobia. Kokichi seems genuinely surprised and maybe even touched by this, but quickly continues his usual teasing.

Shuichi 
At first, Shuichi thought K1-B0 was one of Monokuma's relative which he declined, however. Shuichi was surprised how K1-B0 was a robot and also one of his classmates.

In general, Shuichi appears to be nicer towards K1-B0 than most of the other students, but he still does occasionally say "robophobic" things that anger K1-B0. K1-B0 appeared especially offended and angered when he was kicked out of the seance and replaced with Shuichi, blaming the detective and telling him that he won't forget this. However, Shuichi does sometimes encourage K1-B0 by telling him that he's fine the way he is, but he also feels a bit awkward whenever the robot shows off his rather unimpressive functions.

During the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, in the Love Suite, K1-B0 wonders about the meaning of love and asks Shuichi to be his lover so he can learn about those emotions. The robot goes overboard with listing typical things lovers do together and Shuichi calms him down by saying that maybe they shouldn't be in a relationship if K1-B0 doesn't truly like him. K1-B0 turns unhappy and assumes he was rejected, but Shuichi tells him it's not like that. K1-B0 then confesses that he might have fallen in love with Shuichi and wishes to exchange warm words and hold hands with him. They both feel nervous, but decide to hold hands, which makes them feel calmer. Shuichi notices that K1-B0's hand feels warm instead of cold like he assumed. When Shuichi wakes up in his own bed the next morning, he wonders if it was just a dream, but he notices that his hand still feels warm.

If K1-B0 has a good time with Shuichi during the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, he wouldn't like to go back to the dorm and wishes to spend more time with Shuichi. He then explains while blushing shyly that his chest feels warmer when he is with Shuichi and he feels very calm.

Kaede 
Although initially defensive about his robot nature, K1-B0 decides that he is glad to be Kaede's friend after discovering that she is not a discriminatory towards robots.

In the extra free time events, Kaede seems to be interested in K1-B0 since it's her first time interacting with a real robot. Kaede is also curious in K1-B0's features and interrogates him. K1-B0 was not aware of Kaede joking around since he finds human jokes very annoying. He states how Kaede is the first person who asked so many questions without hesitating towards him. 

During his last free time event with Kaede, she presses his emergency button, rendering him unconscious for a moment. After K1-B0 is back to normal, she suggests that maybe the emergency button shouldn't be in such obvious place and he should talk to the professor about it. K1-B0 then goes on a tangent about Kaede technically becoming his mother if she influences his design, just like the professor is his father, and says that he should call her his mom from now on. Kaede feels uncomfortable by this, but K1-B0 then shows a more advanced though still a little awkward sense of humor by slightly smirking and revealing that he was just joking as a payback for messing with his body. K1-B0 then turns a little nervous as he politely asks Kaede to keep his emergency button a secret from others, and she of course agrees.

Tenko 
At first, Tenko appears to consider K1-B0 a degenerate male, but later asks him whether he is a boy or a girl. With him being neither a boy or a girl, Tenko considers K1-B0 "barely passable", not treating him as harshly as boys, but neither being as nice towards him as she is towards girls. K1-B0 is unsure whether or not this should be considered robophobia.

Tenko later asks him to join her, Himiko and Angie to relax and be pretense celebrities while being pampered by Kirumi. However, K1-B0 doesn't really understand how it works, especially the parasol which doesn't really seem to have any actual purpose. Tenko then a bit meanly answers him that a robot like him wouldn't understand what it means to feel like a celebrity.

Himiko 
During most of the Killing Game, Himiko is shown to have quite a poor opinion of K1-B0, seemingly not considering him a person and more than once suggesting that "they should just kill the robot". At one point, Himiko even suggests that K1-B0 should self-destruct to open a hole in the wall, thus making himself useful for once. Because of her mean words, K1-B0 is very offended and even proclaims that she is the worst person in the academy, second only to Kokichi.

In Chapter 6, Himiko began to have a better opinion of K1-B0 and saw him as a close friend. After he helped the other students a lot, she acted much friendlier towards him and even offered to make him a real boy with her magic. When K1-B0's personality was about to be erased during the final trial, Himiko was horrified by such cruelness and cried while begging for K1-B0 to stay with them, reminding him that he has survived this far.

In the end, K1-B0 self-destructed to destroy the academy's wall, letting Himiko and the other survivors to escape. Himiko believed that he must have made sure that his three friends survive.

Kirumi 
Kirumi is more considerate towards K1-B0 than most other students are, in fact, she appears to be the most respectful towards him. She considerately asks K1-B0 about his maintenance and in general appears to see him as an equal to humans.

When K1-B0 is asked to join Tenko, Himiko and Angie to relax and be pretense celebrities, Kirumi wishes to serve him as well and asks him if he would prefer to have oil. K1-B0 answers it won't be necessary, and the offer alone made him happy.

Rantaro 
While the two aren't seen interacting much, it's shown in Rantaro's free time with Kaede that he does appear to have a bit more respect towards the robot than many other students have. He recognizes that K1-B0's personality isn't as unique as his status as a robot, but he believes K1-B0 is on their side, considering the Three Laws of Robotics. While talking with Shuichi, he smiles awkwardly as he realizes that he shouldn't say bad things about robots, because K1-B0 wouldn't like that.

During the Demo version, Rantaro spent a lot time with K1-B0 and later vouched for his innocence during the beginning of the trial, and the two were left out of the trial due to the lack of space.

Team Danganronpa:
K1-B0 was created by Team Danganronpa as the role for the "audience participation" and the eyes of the outside world.


K1-B0 along with Monokuma were created by Team Danganronpa for the TV show, Danganronpa. However, K1-B0 seemed to get very annoyed whenever he forced the students to do something as he pleased, he even refused to listen to him and tried to ignore him. Monokuma always seems to mock him for being a robot and makes puns about him. K1-B0 doesn't trust or likes Monokuma in any way. K1-B0 also tried to protect the students when Monokuma executed them. During the end of Chapter 5, after Kaito was executed, K1-B0 stated that he wanted to kill and end Monokuma. Because the students didn't have hope with themselves, Monokuma mocked them that they should give up on hope since there's no hope left for them. However, K1-B0 didn't wanted to give up on hope and lose to Monokuma and wanted to help his classmates for the sake of hope.

In Chapter 6, K1-B0 began a war with Monokuma and his children to stop him and the mastermind by destroying the academy and revealing everything to everyone to protect his classmates.

In the final Class Trial, K1-B0 was challenged by Monokuma a lot of times during the Class Trial in order to defend Tsumugi and the truth being the Killing Game. Soon after the final Class Trial ended, K1-B0 started to destroy Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles he forgave everyone with the exception of him and Tsumugi. In the end, he destroyed everything and betrayed him and Tsumugi by leaving the survivors alone.

In bonus mode, K1-B0 was angry at Monokuma because he treated her sister bad and stated that robots shouldn't fight like that, especially because those two are "family".

Tsumugi 
In the beginning, these two don't interact each other that much and acted like they barely knew each other.

In Chapter 6, it was shown that Tsumugi and K1-B0 were in the same affiliation, Team Danganronpa. Tsumugi treated K1-B0 like a toy and even bullies him for his actions in the trial. They officially became enemies when K1-B0 believed in hope and Tsumugi cared about the show. When nobody casts their votes, Tsumugi trusted K1-B0 to execute her along with Monokuma as well. K1-B0 holds no hesitation to do that task since he was mad when she killed their friends and started the Killing Game with no hope. In the end, he made sure everything got destroyed and betrayed her and Monokuma by leaving the survivors alone.


At first, when they met, K1-B0 saw Monotaro as someone like him being a rare Artificial intelligence. However, he was offended if he was directly compared to such "toys".

During Chapter 4, Monotaro suffered from severe memory issues, forgetting who his real father is and assuming that K1-B0 was his father, which he strongly denied. This made Monotaro upset, which caused Himiko to blame K1-B0 for mean behavior and told him he should at least play along for now. K1-B0 answered that he cannot play along since Monotaro isn't even his child. Monotaro then believed that Miu is his mother, and she accepted him right away.

In the end of Chapter 4, K1-B0 was shocked that Monokuma killed his Monokubs.

In Chapter 6, Monotaro and his brothers were ordered by his father, Monokuma to destroy K1-B0 from destroying the academy. Monotaro was in charge of fighting him as the other Monokubs wondered inside the Academy to search the students. Both of them are seen to have an intense fight during the investigation of the other survivors. When outside, both of them were having an all-out fight with guns. While in the library, they also fought with fists and their high tech guns.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/K1-B0, Hotel Kumasutra#K1-B0

K1-B0 Pixel Head Icon
K1-B0
Loves:	034. White Robot Mustache, 042. Latest Machine Parts Catalogue, 076. Robot Oil, 097. Sparkly Sheet, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	024. Mono-Jinbei, 025. Autumn-Colored Scarf, 037. Travel Journal, 045. High-End Headphone, 056. Indigo Hakama, 060. I'm a Picture Book Artist!, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 077. Clock-Shaped Gaming Console, 081. Jelly Balls, 084. Semazen Doll, 085. Weathercock of Barcelous, 091. Space Egg, 094. Helping Yacchi, 095. Home Planet, 103. Perfect Laser Gun, 104. Someone's Student ID, 106. Dangan Werewolf, 113. Dark Belt

DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"Are you another robophobe? I have a recording function. If you make any robophobic remarks, I will see you in court."
"I'm not just any old robot! I am K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot! But please, address me as Keebo!"
"D-Don't mock me! I have studied the complete history of stand-up comedy!" (To Kokichi Oma)
"I may have the appearance of a robot, but I am a high school student just like you."
"Just leave him alone. Everything he has been saying has been a lie. He's a far more suspicious person than I am, that's for sure."
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"I may have the appearance of a robot, but I am a high school student just like you. From one high school student to another, I hope we can all get along!"
"Pardon me, but...we need to be on our guard. We do not know if and when danger will strike."
Chapter 1:

"Isn't it premature to say what we'll do after we escape? Assumptions are all but useless."
"Given the circumstance...the most logical course of action would be to give up..."
"There is no need to worry, is there? No one is going to...kill anyone, right?"
"As novice investigators, logic dictates that we work together rather than give in to paranoia."
"I hope my line of questioning has not offended either of you. It is necessary, so that we may find the truth."
"But communication is the foundation of any discussion!" (To Tenko Chabashira)
"I cannot imagine why anyone would risk their life to lie on another's behalf."
"That is a harmful stereotype. I can produce heartfelt remarks through calculations!"
Chapter 2:

"It is never bad to have too much information."
"I also agree with Kaito. Our defeat is 100% assured unless we stand up to this."
"But I believe cooperating with each other is the most logical course of action—"
"That's right! If we all cooperate, I'm sure we will be able to escape this place! If we meet every morning for breakfast, we will slowly but surely become more united."
"Of course. We cannot afford to take Monokuma's motives lightly."
"I'm very happy that I was finally able to use my functions to help everyone!"
Chapter 3:

"Please take back what you just said. I can too understand human feelings. But I'm still in the process of collecting data. Please, give me data! Please!"
"Yes, there can be no harmony between us if we keep saying different things."
"Um... Should we resume the investigation? Time is of the essence..."
"Just leave it to me. I will become the guiding light that shines on you all."
"My status as a robot does not mean I am capable of performing superhuman feats! My vision is somewhat poor, and I only possess average physical strength and intelligence!"
"No, it's too dangerous to vote before we arrive at a logical decision!"
"You're right! Those of us who remain can start over!"
Chapter 4:

"Please tell me! You don't need to hesitate. After all, we're friends."
"I also think Monokuma was lying. He is an exceptionally deceitful being."
"We shouldn't rely on the power of sci-fi for anything."
"Kaito, please stop. There is never a good reason to commit violence. Even minor aggressions...can lead to atrocities such as murder."
"But if there's even a small chance that we can stop the killing game, we should take it. ...Yes, that's what my inner voice is telling me."
"It sounds like we have a difficult task ahead of us...but I guess we have to see it through."
"I will show you that I'm leagues apart from those household cleaning robots!"
"Miu was certainly brash and spirited, but she wasn't a bad person. Believe me, I had her perform maintenence on my body! So I know! I know...very well! Krgh... I want to cry, but I can't... I should have had Miu install a crying function!"
"Th-That's not true! I'm hoping we can discover the truth, too!"
"Shuichi, everyone is counting on you. Including myself... Please give the Class Trial everything you've got and see us through to the end. And I'll do my best as well, of course!"
"I wonder what the truth is. There's no way to find out now..."
"I think we need to seriously discuss whether Gonta was capable of committing this crime. ...Only then can we arrive at a logical decision."
Chapter 5:

"Let's go, Shuichi. We have no other direction to move but foward. My inner voice is telling me... "Hope moves forward.""
"I just really want to try it out. If I don't, I'll never be able to rust in peace when I die."
"My inner voice that guides me when I feel lost spoke to me again... It said, "Now is the time to stand and fight." It may be a dangerous course of action, but if it will prevent future victims... Then I've decided that I will fight Monokuma!"
"Either way, we should at least try. So we won't have any regrets."
"If all hope is lost, then it's up to us to become that hope! After all, we're the students of Hope's Peak Academy, aren't we!? If we give up now, everyone who fought on the side of hope will have fought for nothing! That's...what my inner voice is telling me. That no matter what, I cannot abandon hope. I cannot give up... So I will not despair! Even if it's only a little, I will move forward with hope!"
"Right now, there is no use in thinking about whether our lives have meaning or not... Because as long as we're alive, we still have the power to decide that meaning for ourselves... That's what I believe hope is!"
"Yes! As long as we stand together, without giving in to despair, we will find a new hope!"
"With Kaito by our side encouraging us, then even if we are the only people left... ...I think we can still find a new hope."
"Let's go! We must end this killing game once and for all, no matter what!"
"This is the final battle between hope and despair! It all ends here! Kokichi can twist and violate the rules all he likes, but we'll never give up! Hope...will never submit to despair!"
"We don't need your rules anymore! We'll find our own reasons to live! And we'll do whatever it takes to survive!"
"Let's show him that the students of Hope's Peak Academy will never submit to despair!"
"I think we need to get all the facts straight so we don't fall for any more lies."
"This emotion I've learned...I believe you call it "faith." That's what I feel right now."
"Was it really a lie...? I think his dying words may have been the honest truth."
"It's quiet... Too quiet... And yet, this silence is quite refreshing. I used to hear my inner voice with perfect clarity... It would fill me the power of hope... Guide me along the right path... ...I can't hear it anymore. All I hear now...is silence. That silence means my will is now my own. Even if despair is all we have to choose... Even if hope no longer exists... I will never give in to despair! I...I will end this. No matter what, I will force this to end. This school, this Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, is steeped in despair. ...And I will destroy it."
Chapter 6:

"Yes...I wanted to be treated like a real human. A creature of flesh and blood like you all. But I no longer have the luxury of clinging to that wish anymore! My course is clear! I must destroy this academy and end this killing game!"
"As long as this killing game continues, only despair awaits us."
"Monokuma is right. Despair is all we have here. We simply do not have the power to change the outside world on our own. All we can do now is refuse to submit to despair!"
"Kaito and Kokichi gave their lives to end this killing game... We should follow their example! We should be willing to give our lives to end this killing game!"
"We can never submit to despair! Because we are students of Hope's Peak Academy!"
"In the name of Hope's Peak Academy, the symbol of hope itself... I will destroy the Ultimate Academy, and bring down this monument to despair!"
"I was wrong to try to destroy everything just to avoid losing to despair... Even if I had followed though, there would've been no hope or future left afterward. In which case, my actions would have merely resulted in a different despair altogether. ...I do not expect you to forgive me. What I did was foolish. But...will you allow me to fight alongside you!? I want to help you find the truth!"
"There are notable differences between us, but they're nothing for me to be ashamed of. Because...with my talent, it's possible that I can save you all."
"The mysteries were all fiction in the first place. All scripted. Whenever I was in trouble, my inner voice would always guide me. That guidance is what brought me here. I don't believe that's a mistake. So...I will trust it. Please...tell me. Tell me what I should do. Please, tell me your decision."
"My inner voice is telling me I need to...remedy this situation. That is why I will not give up! I will not give up hope until the very end! We can't give up. No matter what, hope is always within reach. We must keep our heads high and search for hope, especially in deepest despair. Even if this world is fiction, even if we're fiction, there must be something we can do. So there must be a way to break though this! I won't give up hope! Not ever!"
"I won't give in to despair! If I'm a surrogate for the audience... Then I will use my inner voice to broadcast hope to the outside world!"
"No! My inner voice already told me what to do! I need to remedy this! If that's the voice of the outside world, then the outside world actually wants hope! So I will trust the outside world! I will trust in hope! This is the power of hope!"
"I will not lose to your despair! Not when I'm carrying the hope of the outside world!"
"I won't let you do that! Hope will never give in to despair! Hope will definitely win! No one here wants despair to win!"
"...No! As long as we never give up, there will always be hope! If it will bring hope to everyone and the outside world, I will gladly sacrifice myself... Even if it destroys my body, I will defeat despair!"
"Despair won't end this killing game... Only hope will!"
"I won't let you to do that! I will destroy all your despair! Destroy it all...until not a trace of it remains! And I will save everyone!"
"I will never give up! Hope will never lose to despair!"
"Despair takes everything from people! Even their strength to press onward! That's why it's not possible for despair to be better!"
"If we continue to win for hope, then this killing game will surely end someday!"
"No... My inner voice is still telling me...not to give up on hope. But if that hope demands tragedy from us... ... Then...I cannot trust it."
"I may be a robot, but the thought of my friends dying still fills me with sadness. I don't want anyone else to feel this way! So...I will abandon hope!"
"It may not be a physical power, but our wish will surely be received by someone. If fiction has the power to touch people's hearts, then that power can change the world! That is what I believe! I will also abandon my vote, just as Shuichi suggested!"
"Do whatever you want with hope and despair."
"I'm...sorry... I could not fight with you...until the end... But...your choice is not wrong... The real...enemy...is... The outside world who is enjoying this... killing game. So, please...use me...t-to change... To change...the...world..."
"I'll be the one who ends this killing game. I'll bring this fiction to an end. It's the will of the outside world. Destroy this entire fictional world, and end the killing game... That...is what the outside world wants."
"...Very well, let's begin. Or rather, let's end this! This is the will of the outside world!"
Chapter 6 (Fake Memory):

"I'm still a teenager, just like you all. I would feel lonely if I were the only one still awake."
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

K1-B0 is the first Ultimate Hope who isn't the main protagonist and a deceased one who dies for the sake of hope.
Initially, his dream is to have a robot idol business in the future and he wishes to be a pop star. However, K1-B0 does not appear to fully grasp how singing works, as his singing voice resembles a long, rasping sigh increasing into a higher note and shouting. His singing voice is apparently so terrible that it causes Shuichi to throw up. Because of this, he gives up on the idea of being a pop star.
On first discovering his research lab, K1-B0 expresses not wanting his lab as he dislikes sci-fi technology so much to the extent that he doesn't want assistance that'd be benefitted from using it. Instead, he prefers traditional Japanese things; liking Japanese food the most (even though he can only stare at it) and wanting his lab to have a Japanese theme with kimonos and a porch with windchimes.
He really likes anime movies and empathizes with the robot characters who play active roles and he believes anime movies will help to reduce robophobia.
He likes the kind of brushes used for car washing, finding them comfortable.
In English, K1-B0's skill earned after completing his fifth Free Time Event, Digital Love, is a reference to the Daft Punk song of the same name.
It's implied that he can have romantic feelings for a person regardless of gender, as he has romantic feelings for Shuichi in the bonus mode Love Across the Universe. He also has a more ambiguous relationship with Miu in the main story and the non-canonical bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan.
In his Love Suite scene, K1-B0's fantasy shows him being curious about love and asking a friend to be his practice partner, eventually confessing that he has fallen in love with them.
K1-B0's English voice actor, Lucien Dodge, also provides the voice for Hifumi Yamada in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted K1-B0 the 7th most popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. K1-B0 was voted the 8th most popular student in the electronic poll, and 7th through post cards.

Kaito Momota was a normal talentless high school boy who adored a famous reality show called Danganronpa, a series which tells the story about Killing Games, created by Team Danganronpa. In his audition video before he participated in Danganronpa, he said that he wanted to murder, earning the honor and money after winning the game so that he would no longer have to worry about what was impossible.

During his high school days, Kaito attended Dodonpachi Commercial High (怒首領蜂商業高校). However, it is unclear if this memory of him is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa.

Fabricated Past
After he successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Kaito's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

In Kaito's Free Time Events, he told Shuichi a story from his childhood that sparked his dream to conquer the universe. He told him how he went on a voyage to fight with his rival, the boss of the Great Pirates and conquering the land by invading an underground civilization and befriend its emperor, all done in a summer vacation he had. Shuichi questioned the credibility of his story for several times, mentioned that Kaito was probably demented or could probably become a great writer using the materials he told him.

In his middle school, Kaito was once a tennis club member and recognized Ryoma Hoshi's fame as his other teammates idolized him.

As he grew older, Kaito became famous for becoming the first teen to ever pass the astronaut exams. However, in reality he never even took the test, lacking the required college degree and thus cheating his way through using false documents that he got from an acquaintance. Once he was found out, he was allowed to stay on as a trainee thanks to being an interesting and amusing person of talent.He hasn't been to space yet, but he harbors a great longing to go.In his Free Time Events, he claimed he had famous sidekicks in the past, such as a star rookie in the major league, an Nobel Prize winner engineer, and taught a popular pop to sing and dance.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Kaito and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Kaito was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participant however, Kaito and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Kaito chose to forget about his ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Kaito and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Kaito and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, the true Mastermind, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, were actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair, and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush however, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

While Kaito did remember about the Ultimate Hunt in Chapter 2, his and everyone else's funeral in Chapter 3, the meteorite impacts and the state of the outside world in Chapter 4 thanks to the Flashback Light's, he ultimately has no complete recollection of the event, as he was not present when the complete memory about The Gofer Project was triggered by the Flashback Light in Chapter 5.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Kaito was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Kaito was confused about their current predicament, asking Kaede and Shuichi if they were also chased by those monsters, referring to the Exisals. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived and revealed themselves from within their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light. Kaito and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. He also received the talent and title of Ultimate Astronaut. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Kaito and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester. Danganronpa V3 CG - Pre-Game Students in their talent outfits (Vita) (1)
Kaito was later found outside the main school building by Kaede and Shuichi, the Ultimate Detective. He didn’t seem particularly worried about the End Wall, unlike the duo was. He then introduced himself as the Luminary of the Stars, proudly declaring that even crying children adored the Ultimate Astronaut. Kaede was irritated with him when he said that he had a friend of his forge documents in order to pass the exams, but Kaito stated that they let him in regardless due to his personality. He dreamed of one day going into space, saying that there’s no way he could wait until after college and that sometimes you have to take risks in order to make your dreams a reality.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester Kaito would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement, stating that it was quite something for all these Ultimates to be gathered together like this. Not long after everyone gathered, The Monokuma Kubs and Monokuma, the Monokubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game. Kaito became furious at such a concept. While almost everyone else was shocked or horrified by this. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.
Attempting the Death Road of 
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Kaito read the rules on his Monopad and became increasingly more outraged, threatening to smash his Monopad into the ground. He was stopped by Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ???, who explained to him that he would be killed for doing so as breaking the Monopads violated the school rules. Kaito reluctantly agreed to Rantaro’s statement, but still refused to participate in such a thing. A majority of the group wasn't sure what to do either after reading the rules and began to panic and argue. Thanks to Kaede's motivational speech however, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Kaito was very impressed with Kaede unifying everyone, stating that what she said was what he would have said. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Kaito along with everyone else immediately followed the Ultimate Entomologist's lead, with hope of finding a way out.

Danganronpa V3 CG - The students despairing at failing the Death Road of Despair (2) Descending the manhole, Kaito and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. Kaede continued to encourage everyone, with Kaito becoming even more impressed to the point where he offered her a hug because they shared the same opinion, he was of course turned down immediately by the Ultimate Pianist. Everyone went into the tunnel with determination. However, Kaito and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through the Death Road of Despair was next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Kaito was incredibly angry with the rest of the group for putting all the blame and responsibility on Kaede. He tried to reassure Kaede that she wasn’t wrong before leaving the tunnel and heading to his dorm room to get some rest.
The First and Additional 
The next day, everyone gathered in the dining hall. As soon as Kaede arrived Kokichi greeted her, having made the group consolidate once again with his "kind" lie. Kaito however, was still angry with everyone for pushing all the blame onto Kaede without taking any responsibility themselves, but Kaede said it was fine, not wanting the group to fight again. Afterwards, Monokuma came to the dining hall and announced the first motive, anyone who committed the first killing will graduate without holding a trial, effectively calling it a "First Blood Perk". Everyone was worried about what this would mean, aside from Kaito, who became increasingly outraged with Monokuma for doing whatever he wanted and lunged at him. This caused the Monokubs to show up, showing no hesitation to punish Kaito with the Exisals for attempting violence against their father, effectively breaking the rules. The red Exisal charged at him, but accidentally ended up crushing Monokuma instead, supposedly destroying him. The Monokubs were incredibly saddened at the sudden demise of their father, stating that he had no spare and that he was one of a kind. Upon learning this, Kaito and everyone else's mood improved greatly, thinking the killing game to be over. Kaito proudly thought that it was all thanks to him that the killing game had ended.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Monokuma telling the students the first motive The next morning, Kaito was with everyone else in the dining hall once again, happy that the Killing Game had supposedly ended. However, it didn't take long for Monokuma to show up once again, much to the dismay of the students, but to the joy of the Monokuma Kubs. Monokuma goes on to reveal the additional motive, that if a murder did not occur within two days by noon, everyone who was forced to participate would be killed. This motive caused a majority of the group to become too depressed to stay united and leave the dining hall. Kaito declared that he would think of something to stop Monokuma no matter what, though his words weren’t taken too seriously. He also noticed that Kaede and Shuichi had a secret that they weren’t willing to share with the group, but he trusted them when Kaede said that no matter what, she would end this killing game.
On the 
Danganronpa V3 CG - Hidden Camera Photo (1)
On the final day of the time limit, Kaito held a strategy meeting in the basement's game room to discuss a plan to fight Monokuma after the time limit ended. He managed to gather six participants, Gonta, and Tenko Chabashira, the Ultimate Aikido Master, due to their physical capabilities. He also gathered Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, and Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, believing that their magic and belief in Atua respectively would prove useful for fighting Monokuma. Maki Harukawa, the Ultimate Child Caregiver would also be dragged along by Kaito, thinking that she probably knew how to fight. Rantaro would end up joining the meeting as well. All seven of them headed down into the game room as soon as the time limit was almost up. Before the meeting begin, Rantaro left the room, claiming that he wanted to go to the bathroom. Kaito didn't want the meeting to start without Rantaro however and decided to find him along with Tenko. The duo happened to run into Kaede and Shuichi in front of the library and said that they should join their strategy meeting. Kaede however, told the two of them that they might succeeded in catching the mastermind of the Killing Game and that they were inside the library. Hearing this, Kaito and Tenko joined Kaede and Shuichi in storming the library, seeing the bookcase move back into position at the back of the room. The four moved closer to inspect it, only to discover Rantaro’s body not far from the moving bookcase. Kaito was shocked to find them dead, shockingly asking what was going on before Tenko let out a scream, alerting everyone else in the game room. Eventually, everyone else gathered due to the body discovery announcement. Kaito was angered at the loss of their friend, asking all of them who did it and that he would "punch them into orbit". With Kaede’s motivational speech once again however, everyone became united and began to investigate the truth of Rantaro’s death.

During the investigation, Kaito and Himiko would question Gonta in the AV room, finding it suspicious that he would lock himself in during their meeting. Gonta seemingly panicked and tried to tell the duo that he didn't kill Rantaro. Kaito tried to get him to relax, saying that they didn’t suspect him, just that they wanted to know what he was doing alone. Himiko however was more willing to suspect him, saying that he had the face of a killer. Kaede and Shuichi did find this odd, but didn't automatically suspect Gonta.

Protecting 
During the Class Trial, when everyone was accusing Shuichi of being the culprit, Kaito was on the half that chose to defend him and refused to believe that he would be capable of murder. When Shuichi pointed out Kaede as the true culprit however, Kaito still could not believe it and tried to defend her as well near the end of the trial. However, Shuichi's deduction makes it apparent that Kaede committed the crime, much to Kaito's dismay. However, upon hearing that Kaede only did what she did so that she could kill the mastermind and save everyone, he did not blame her at all, still viewing her as a great person.

Danganronpa V3 CG - The students trying to protect Kaede Akamatsu from her execution (1)
After the Class Trial ended, and Monokuma wanted to proceed with the execution, Kaito along with Tenko, and Gonta stood up for her despite facing an Exisal. He stated that if Kaede was willing to risk her life for them, he would put his life on the line as well, though she eventually told them to stop, saying that she was ready to die and that they could end this killing game together and all be friends before being dragged off to her execution. Afterwards, Kaito threatened Monokuma out of anger of seeing one of his friends get killed, but he simply replied with ominous foreshadowing by saying he doesn't have much longer to live.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaito Momota hitting Shuichi Saihara
Once Monokuma and the Monokubs left, Kaito told everyone to shut up because their constant whining and complaining annoyed him, but then stated that Shuichi was the most annoying one of them all before promptly punching him in the face. He angrily criticized Shuichi for doing nothing and letting Monokuma do whatever he wanted while Kaede passed her wish onto him and believed in him before being told to back down by the others. As everyone else headed back up and out of the elevator, Shuichi and Kaito remained behind for a bit. Kaito recommended him to check out Kaede's Research Lab. The Ultimate Astronaut stated that while there probably weren't a lot of things to remember her in there, there still had to have been many things she liked. Kaito told Shuichi that the only one who could get him through this awful feeling was Kaede in his memories before also leaving the trial grounds. Shuichi would take his words to heart and end up paying a visit to the Ultimate Pianist's Research Lab.

Exploring the Rest of the 
The very next morning, Kaito went to ring the bell on Shuichi's dorm room, wanting to get him for breakfast. Shuichi told him that he normally doesn't eat breakfast, but reasoning with the Ultimate Astronaut proved to be a waste of time as he ended up going with Kaito anyways. It was only once they got to the dining hall that Kaito noticed Shuichi wasn't wearing his hat, to which Tenko ridiculed him for. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that became unlocked was the casino, which Kaito and Shuichi were able to access and explore together. Kaito was interested in all the games in the basement, quickly amassing a fortune. However, Monokuma showed up afterwards and goaded him with the possibility of amassing double the amount that he currently has. Kaito took the bait completely, thus beginning his downfall. He was left with half of his starting amount, but Monokuma goaded him more. Kaito stubbornly declared that he would earn it all back before continuing his losing streak, all the way down to his last coin. Shuichi could only watch his friend gradually lose everything. Monokuma laughed and mocked him, stating that watching people amass a fortune and loss everything was the best, before disappearing.

Angie eventually told Kaito and everyone else to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight that she and Shuichi had discovered earlier. After everyone had gathered, Monokuma appeared and told the participants that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Kaito included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

Momota losing to Hoshi In a bonus scene in Chapter 2, Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor, Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist, Ryoma Hoshi, the Ultimate Tennis Pro, Shuichi, and Kokichi gathered in the casino in hopes of playing a secret game with the medal that Shuichi had received from the Monomono Machine. However, Monokuma shows up and denies this, never stating such a thing in the first place and that the medal Shuichi had was just some knickknack he made for the Monokuma Kubs. Afterwards, Kaito showed up as well, and everyone got roped into a gambling competition. Kaito ended up losing to Ryoma every single time, once again continuing his pathetic luck at gambling. Kaito attempted to shrug it off as him stating that his skills are suited for outer space rather than gambling, though it was clear he was upset at his constant losses.
The Motive 
During that same night, the Monokubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. Shuichi ended up receiving Kaito’s video, which he watched the next morning revealing that the two closest people to the Ultimate Astronaut were his grandparents. Kaito joined everyone in the dining hall the next morning in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. Despite Ryoma suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. Kaito went with what everyone decided, stating that the motive videos were too dangerous to watch. Kokichi however, had other ideas.

The night after the motive videos were presented, Kaito invited Shuichi to the courtyard for training. They both ended up doing push-ups, though Shuichi had a harder time keeping up. Shuichi asked Kaito why he had to do this, so the Ultimate Astronaut replied by asking if the one Kaede entrusted her wish to was really this weak, still able to sense that Shuichi had yet to truly overcome his weakness. Shuichi angrily responded that he knew that, but still couldn’t help but feel scared of what would happen if he revealed the truth. Kaito encouraged him, seeming to understand what his "enemy" was now. As a result, from this moment onward, Kaito and Shuichi would always attempt to meet up every night to train together like this.

Kokichi meanwhile, wanting to make everyone watch each other’s motive videos in order to make the killing game more interesting, thought up of a plan. He lied to Gonta that everyone in the academy hated bugs. Hearing this, Gonta cried and declared that he would get everyone to like bugs in an "Insect Meet and Greet". As a result, two days after the motive videos were distributed, Gonta began to kidnap various students into his lab, completely unaware of the Ultimate Supreme Leader's true intentions.

Gonta would succeed in detaining Tenko, Korekiyo, K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot, and Tsumugi Shirogane, the Ultimate Cosplayer, much to Kokichi's glee. He would later pursue Kaito as well, but he was able to avoid him and warn Shuichi about the impending threat before fleeing once again. Despite Kaito’s warning however, Shuichi ended up detained along with Angie and Himiko later anyways. Kaito would somehow continue to evade the Ultimate Entomologist’s wrath all night, going so far as to hide in the girl’s bathroom until later going back to his room and falling asleep. As a result, Kaito was one of the only students along with Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, Maki, and Miu, who were not present for Gonta’s Insect Meet and Greet.

The Second Investigation and Class 
The very next day, Kaito was one of the few who did not attend Himiko's magic show, where the next victim, Ryoma, would be found dead. After the body discovery announcement played, Kaito rushed to the gym along with Miu and Kokichi, shocked to discover Ryoma’s skeleton. Gonta and Tenko used K1-B0 as a battering ram to shatter the tank since it would take too long to drain by hand, and everyone helped clean up. Afterwards, the investigation begin for real.

Shuichi Saihara and Kaito Momota investigating the window
During the investigation, Kaito assist Shuichi in his investigation, dubbing the Ultimate Detective as his "sidekick". Although Kaito may have fulfilled the role of sidekick better, seeing as investigation wasn’t his main area of expertise, he still proved to be a valuable asset, as he pointed out clues that not even Shuichi was able to notice, such as the marks on the window frames in Ryoma’s Lab.

During the second trial, after everyone had supposedly pinned down the culprit as either Kaito or Maki, Kokichi proposed that they all have those two argue against each other and convince the remaining participants on who the IS culprit since if only two suspects remained, one of them had to know for certain that the other was the culprit. Kokichi presented everyone with the first topic, bringing out Ryoma's motive video, and said that one of those two had it. Shuichi was able to deduce that Maki had Ryoma's video due to the fact that he himself had Kaito's. Kokichi proudly told Kaito and Maki to tear each other’s arguments apart in an argument that "isn't boring". Kaito however, was angered by this, saying that he wasn't the culprit, but that Maki wasn't the culprit either, much to both Maki's and Kokichi's bewilderment. Kokichi was baffled with the Ultimate Astronaut being so willing to believe in people based on nothing more than a "hunch", especially considering that everyone's lives were on the line. After going back and forth for some time, Maki turned the entire debate around and said that she had met with Ryoma at nighttime, rendering everyone's alibi's as mute. Kokichi laughed Maki's claim off, claiming she was lying out of desperation. After debating on the matter, and thanks to Shuichi's lie, they were able to prove Maki's claim as accurate, making Kaito proud of Shuichi.

Momota supporting Saihara in the second trial
Later on during the trial, Shucihi believed that he had pinned down the culprit, but was still hesitant to reveal the truth. Kaito reassured him however and stated that if he made any mistakes, he himself would take responsibility for them, stating that he is responsible for any mistakes that his sidekick makes. With this encouragement, Shuichi was able to pin Kirumi as the culprit of Ryoma’s murder. Despite Kirumi constantly stating that his deduction was wrong, Shuichi did not back down, stating that he made a promise to Kaede and that he wanted to protect everyone. This impressed Kaito, and he left the rest of the mystery solving to him.

After Kirumi had admitted her crime and her motivations, Kaito was baffled to discover that she was the real prime minister of Japan. She attempted to make everyone feel sympathy for her to the point where they would either want to give up their lives for her, or rebel so that she could flee. While her plan seemed to work, Kaito criticized everyone for thinking of their lives as any less. He stated that human life isn’t something that can be traded away or sold off and further declared that nobody lives their lives for themselves. Everyone’s determination seemed to renew at this speech, but this foiled Kirumi’s plan, which Kokichi pointed out. Kaito however, didn’t blame her, stating that she was simply trying to live in her own way. Later, when the Monokubs showed Ryoma’s motive video, Kaito was disappointed, calling Ryoma a moron for giving up on life so easily. Kirumi made a mad dash for it, still refusing to die. Kaito was one of the ones who cheered her on, but his and the others cheering was pointless as she was executed by Monokuma.

Everyone was rendered shocked by the way she was murdered, but came to the unanimous conclusion that the motive videos were more dangerous than originally believed and decided that it truly would be for the best not to watch them.

Helping 
After everyone leaves the trial room, Kokichi states that there was an even worse liar than himself hiding among the group, much to everyone's confusion. He then called Maki out as that liar, essentially claiming that she had been lying to everyone about her true identity this entire time. Maki was aggravated by this and threatened Kokichi, but despite holding the Ultimate Supreme Leader by his neck, he still called out her true talent as the Ultimate Assassin. This apparent sudden revelation shocked Kaito greatly, and would influence his opinion on her from this moment out.

The very next morning, at Kokichi’s request, Kaito heads the "Ultimate Child Caregiver’s Research Lab" with everyone else barring Maki, who had locked herself in her own room. Once Kaito sees her lab however, him and everyone else became shocked to discover the variety of weapons all throughout it, essentially proving Kokichi’s claim the night prior. Everyone else became increasingly worried, viewing the talent of a killer as a genuine threat to everyone’s survival. Kaito however, was not afraid. He reassured everyone to leave Maki to him and that he’d "take down that mask of hers". Afterwards, the Monokubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy. Kaito however, did not investigate the new areas, instead trying to get Maki to come out of her own room. While he greatly irritated the Ultimate Assassin, she eventually complied and came out of her room.

After all the new areas had been opened up and investigated, everyone gathered in the dining hall once again in order to investigate yet another Flashback Light. The other participants became shocked to discover that Maki was there with him, having been brought by Kaito. Just like before, everyone was worried that Maki would try to kill them due to her talent, but she attempted to coldly reassure everyone that she wasn’t, saying that the only reason she hid her talent from everyone was because people always try to kill her when they find out her true nature. She told the rest of the group to just pretend she wasn’t even there before leaving the dining hall, a hint of sadness on her face. While everyone else seemed to comply with Maki’s request, Kaito wouldn’t give up that easily.

Maki Harukawa exercising with Kaito Momota and Shuichi Saihara
That same night, Kaito relentlessly buzzed Maki’s intercom until she finally came out, then dragged her by her arm to the courtyard, much to her irritation. Shuichi met with Kaito not long after for training like before, but was surprised to find Maki with him. Maki wondered just what she had been dragged out here for, but Kaito replied by saying not to worry about the small stuff and that training was more fun with three people instead of two. Maki was not amused by this reasoning, stating that it was stupid before getting ready to head back to her dorm, but Kaito stopped her. Maki asked him why he was so insistent after she told him and the others to stay away from her. When she said this, Kaito asked her how long she would continue to "run away". He claimed that he could tell her mask was coming down and that she was not the terrifying person she thought she was, calling her a coward. Kaito asked her who her "enemy" was, but Maki had no idea what he was talking about. He told her that she didn’t have to tell him as long as she knew, but criticized her for running away from her "enemy", claiming it was pathetic but that he would train with her to overcome that weakness. Maki seemed irritated by this, but finally gave in and joined Kaito and Shuichi for one-hundred push-ups. Maki was easily able to accomplish the task however, much to both Kaito and Shuichi’s shock. Once she was done, Kaito told her to meet up again tomorrow for training once again. After Maki left, Shuichi asked Kaito why he would want to help Maki, to which the Ultimate Astronaut replied by saying that astronauts help each other and that if someone was weak and suffering, there’s now he could just leave them. Kaito and Shuichi, after conversing with each other for a little more, continued their training, with Kaito claiming he "didn’t remember" how many push-ups he did and so, started over with Shuichi. Both of them were physically exhausted by the time they got back to their rooms.

Kaito’s 
Kaito gathered with everyone in the gymnasium the very next morning at the Monokubs request. The participants were presented with the third motive, the Necronomicon, and were told that they would be able to bring back someone who had died already as a transfer student. This motive baffled the students, though Kaito seemed more frightened than the others to an almost sickly degree. He kept his phobia to himself however, not wanting anyone else to find out.

However, Angie seemed to embrace the motive, saying the "corpses" so far may have just been very accurate imitations to make the real people seem dead. Some of the students argued that there's no way that's possible, but Gonta said that more letters were added to the rock in the courtyard, deducing that perhaps the four people who had died are actually alive and wrote that message. Angie praised Gonta and, like Himiko before him, pulled him into a hug. She instilled hers and Atua's authority into him by reassuring him that he's not alone and that Atua is like a gentle grandmother that always keeps him safe, effectively playing off of Gonta's desire for a motherly figure.

It is then revealed that Angie had actually met up with a number of students the night prior and put together a Student Council in order to end the killing game. Kaito however, was not a part of Angie’s student council and strongly opposed their rigorous and strict rules that they wanted to enforce, especially their rule that prevented the students from going out at night time, which conflicted with his and Shuichi and Maki's training time. Kaito also would not show up for training during that same night due to "feeling sick". Shuichi and Maki both confronted him about this the next night, only for them both to find out that he was actually frightened of the occult and that he had been horrible with ghost stories ever since he was a child. Both Shuichi and Maki simply told him to get some rest if he truly wasn’t feeling well, to which he did.

Third Trial and 
The very next morning, the third body discovery announcement played and Kaito, along with everyone else who wasn’t already in Angie’s Research Lab, rushed there to find the Ultimate Artist’s Corpse lying in the middle of the four wax effigies of the recently deceased hanging from the ceiling. Tsumugi theorized that the spirit of whoever Angie was trying to resurrect ended up killing her. Kaito was very obviously shaken up by this and, along with still not feeling well from the earlier days, was unable to help with the investigation like he could before. As a result, Shuichi and Maki teamed up instead to investigate Angie’s and Korekiyo’s Lab.

Momota hugging Harukawa
However, it did not take long for another body discovery announcement to play during the investigation. Everyone was instructed to go to the vacant middle room on the fourth floor that was used for Korekiyo’s séance. There, Kaito and the others who didn’t assist in the ritual discovered Tenko’s corpse lying in the center of the now-ruined magic circle. Kaito was very obviously shocked to discover another victim in the middle of their investigation, but once again became horrified when the topic of a curse was brought up. Out of fear, he pulled Maki into his arms, embarrassing her greatly. Kaito ended up earning a swift punch to the gut from the Ultimate Assassin, causing him to let go and leave the séance room, once again leaving the investigation to the others.

During the class trial itself, Kaito apologized to everyone for being unable to be of much help during the investigation due to the overall paranormal atmosphere surrounding the area and motive. Monokuma however, simply mocked him, telling him to spend less time "doing his hair" and more time investigating. Once again Kaito became horrified when Tsumugi brought up the fact that Rantaro’s ghost was the one who killed Angie. Thankfully, Shuichi was able to prove that there’s no way Angie’s ritual succeeded, meaning a spirit could not have committed the crime. This calmed Kaito down, saying that there’s no way the dead could be brought back to life, but Monokuma responded by saying that he wouldn’t lie with his motives. Kaito still did not believe him, but was still shaken up at the thought of the occult.

Overall, Kaito did not do anything significant to assist during the class trial due to not being able to do much investigating on his own. Eventually, Shuichi was able to pin the crime of both Angie and Tenko’s murders on Korekiyo, causing him to panic and speak to his "older sister", once again scaring Kaito. The Ultimate Astronaut listened to Korekiyo’s motivations for murder, though was unable to grasp his reasoning at all, labeling him as insane. Kaito watched as Korekiyo was executed. Afterwards, when Himiko broke down in tears over the loss of her two friends, Kaito was one of the ones seen crying along with her.

Kaito Momota coughing blood after the third Class Trial
As everyone headed back to their dorms, Kaito told the others that he would get some fresh air before going to sleep. Both Shuichi and Maki complied and headed to their respective dorm rooms. Nobody ended up noticing that Kaito was actually very ill and coughing up blood.

Luminary of the 
The very next morning following the third class trial, everyone would gather in the dining hall yet again. The group became disheartened to see how many people they had lost up until now. Monokuma then showed up along with his two remaining Kubs to hand out the next set of random items to unlock more areas with, along with a card key that according to Monophanie would be the next motive. Kaito and the others were immediately wary of the card key, but Kokichi snatched it and ran off. Kaito, agitated with the Ultimate Supreme Leader, chased after him. Everyone else meanwhile, headed off to go investigate the rest of the academy, opening up the fifth floor, and K1-B0’s Research Lab.

The Gofer Project Meteorites
Kaito later regathered in the dining hall with the others to investigate yet another Flashback Light, unable to figure out where Kokichi had gone. The Ultimate Supreme Leader showed up not long after however, claiming to not have found where the card key goes to. Though Kaito was still irritated with him, him and the others used the Flashback Light to gain another new memory. Everyone remembered the meteorites that impacted the Earth and that it was described as being very similar to the meteor impact that wiped out the dinosaurs millions of years ago. They also remembered basic details of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project saying that mankind deserved damnation, and the Gofer Project itself. While everyone else was worried by this sudden revelation, Kaito once again remained calm. He stated that since they were fine and that the sky outside was normal that the meteorites must have died down.

Kaito slaps Kokichi
Kaito, Maki, and Shuichi finally met up for training once again, having been unable to before due to the Student Council’s rules of going out at nighttime. The group ended up doing one-hundred sit-ups, with Maki once again leaving both boys in the dust. Kaito however, did not do any training, instead choosing to simply lie there and look up at the sky, admiring the vastness of the universe. Kaito suddenly went to use the bathroom, leaving Shuichi and Maki alone to talk. When Kaito came back, he declared that Shuichi and Maki were going to start over with him due to Shuichi pointing out that he hadn’t even done one sit-up. As they started over, Kaito said to let their sweat wash away all their sadness, fear, worry, and hardships, stating that if they start moving their body their pain will become memories before they know it. Maki told him to train as well, but Kaito said that the reason he wasn’t training was because he had no worries himself, proudly declaring that he was "Kaito Momota, Luminary of the Stars!". Shuichi stated that this was unfair, so once again, they all started over. Only Maki was able to finish however.

Shuichi Saihara, Maki Harukawa, and Kaito Momota exercising
The morning after everyone remembered the meteorites, Gonta, wanting to be of some use to everyone, proposed that he fight the Exisals regardless of how reckless it may be. Kokichi said that that was meaningless and that he shouldn't do that, mainly because the killing game wouldn't end even if he did. Kokichi then called everyone out for being whack jobs if they wanted something this "fun" to end. He confidently declared that he would win this game, even if he had to become the blackened, while calling everyone else out as cowards. This drew the ire of Kaito, who finally had enough of Kokichi's antics and punched him in the face. Kaito asked Kokichi what had gotten into him, stating that the way he was acting now was a whole different level of weird. Kokichi was rendered mute by this act, and everyone ate breakfast in awkward silence.

Shuichi Saihara, Maki Harukawa, and Kaito Momota talking outside (2)
That same night, Kaito, Maki, and Shuichi all met up in the courtyard for training like usual. However, due to Kaito not feeling well, he insisted that instead of the usual training regime that they all talk instead. Kaito wanted to know more about Maki, but he wasn’t very good at picking things to talk about, choosing odd topics such as "favorite blood type", or "favorite space ship". Maki instead ended up talking about her time in the orphanage and how she came to be an assassin. After listening to all the burdens that Maki had been carrying for so long, Kaito reassured both her and Shuichi due to their issues being similar. Kaito told them both not to carry all of their burdens by themselves and that they have people to trust. He proudly told them both that once they learn to share their burdens with their friends, they’ll be stronger. Kaito told Maki that if she was able to talk this much with both him and Shuichi that she had already grown a little stronger. With this, the Ultimate Assassin seemed to have finally warmed up to Kaito a bit and told him that her able to overcome her burdens might be thanks to his training.

Neo World 
Miu Iruma being Ironic 2
The very next night, Miu gathered Kaito and everyone else in the computer room on the fourth floor. She explained to everyone how she had been working on the giant computer for the past few days or so and reprogrammed it into a "world without Monokuma or the killing game". In reality however, she was actually plotting her own murder plan in order to escape, making Kokichi her target and wanting to set up Kaito for her murder. She then explained key points about the program and what she did to modify it, making sure to keep all relevant details about her murder plan a secret. While everyone was still skeptical, everyone decided that it would be better to investigate after all once Monokuma showed up and claimed that there was a "secret of the outside world" within the virtual world program. As a result, everyone, Kaito included, sits down in their chair and uses the headset to log into the virtual world.

Once Kaito logged in with the others, he remarked that he could move his body pretty easily and that he might not have to worry about "all that stuff". He was secretely referring to his illness, but when Shuichi asked, Kaito replied by saying it’s nothing. Once Miu logged in, Kaito listened to her explain more aspects about the virtual world such as their avatars senses being connected, then showed them all the map of the world. Everyone then headed to the chapel, making use of a signboard to cross the river. After reaching the chapel, everyone decided to explore the virtual world in order to find the supposed secret Monokuma was referring to. Kaito went with Shuichi, Tsumugi, Kokichi, and Gonta to explore the mansion, but Miu followed them and threw the signboard in the river to ensure that both groups would remain separate. Kaito and the others were obviously annoyed with this, but eventually just left Miu alone, thinking that she was just up to her usual antics. In reality however, this was also a part of Miu’s murder plan. Kaito decided to explore the roof in hopes of finding the secret of the outside world but Miu, making use of her cellphone that could log out anyone in the virtual world if she said the person’s name into it, logged Kaito out in hopes of framing him for murder. Once Kaito was logged out, he was thoroughly confused. Since he wasn’t sure whether or not he was allowed to log back in, he simply decided to head back to his room to get some sleep. Everyone else would end up staying all night in the virtual world.

The Fourth Investigation and 
When the body discovery announcement played the next morning, telling everyone to gather in the computer room, Kaito immediately dashed there to discover everyone else logged out and Miu, the one who hoped to frame him for murder, dead in her own seat. Kaito was shocked to discover the Ultimate Inventor dead, stating that even though she had a bad personality, he still didn’t want her to die. Kokichi however, found it suspicious that he logged out on his own in advance without informing anyone, immediately making the Ultimate Astronaut suspicious. Kaito tried to tell everyone that he was suddenly logged out involuntarily, a claim which Shuichi would late be able to pin down on when everyone investigated the virtual world and the Ultimate Detective discovered the cell phone next to Miu’s unconscious avatar. Shuichi used it to log Kaito out yet again, much to the astronaut’s annoyance when he promptly logged back in and told Shuichi.

During the trial, Kaito was the immediate prime suspect due to being logged out earlier in advance, but Shuichi was quickly able to prove his innocence due to the fact that Miu was killed within the virtual world, not in the real world. Kaito was also quite confused about the perplexing aspects of the virtual world that Shuichi and Kokichi explained, such as the world looping, but he was told to throw out common sense if he wanted to solve this case. Eventually however, Shuichi was able to reveal that Kokichi had lied about his meeting with Miu on the roof, making Kaito proud once again. As a result, Kokichi decided that he would take away any potential mystery solving regarding the case and bluntly stated that Gonta was Miu's killer. This shocked and angered the other participants greatly, claiming that there's no way someone like Gonta would commit murder let alone listen to Kokichi after what happened with the Insect Meet and Greet. However, both Kokichi and Shuichi, much to the latter's dismay, made it very apparent that Gonta was able to commit this crime. Gonta pleaded to Shuchi that he wasn't the culprit, while Kaito became increasingly outraged at the Ultimate Detective for believing in Kokichi over Gonta. As a result, a rift in the group formed. Gonta, feeling responsible, apologized thinking that it was his fault that everyone was so upset. Kokichi angrily told Gonta to argue back, but he was unable to due to having no memory of the crime he had committed. After realizing that Gonta had been saying things such as "I don't know", and "I don't understand" ever since leaving the virtual world, Shuichi was able to deduce that Gonta had suffered from an avatar error caused by him mixing up the cords, causing him to forget his crime, much to the group's dismay. Kaito however, would not back down and stubbornly defended Kaito all the way until the very end, absolutely refusing to believe that Gonta was the culprit. Despite his stubbornness however, Kaito was eventually forced to back down, a significant gap now existing between him and Shuichi. Finally, even though Gonta himself acknowledged that he wasn't smart enough to understand what was going on, he decided to believe in everyone, thinking that they were probably right. Despite this, Gonta sadly cried out why he would do such a horrible thing, still not even understanding his own motivations.

As a result, in order for everyone to understand Gonta's motivations, Monokuma programs a Gonta Alter-Ego containing Gonta's virtual memories to explain on the real Gonta's behalf. The real Gonta could seemingly understand where AI Gonta was coming from when he said that he wanted to be useful to everyone, which led to him being tricked by Kokichi. When the AI Gonta was asked about what "truth" he remembered, he said that he couldn't tell them due to not wanting them all to end up like he did, to remember a despair so horrible that you'd feel as if you wanted to die. With that, the real Gonta seemingly came to terms with his fate, not showing any signs of fear. Kokichi begs to be executed along with Gonta, but he refuses the proposal. Gonta told the group to forgive his partner for what he's done and get along well with him. Gonta apologizes to everybody for being unable to protect them until the very end. Kaito could do nothing but watch as Gonta was dragged to his execution.

Everyone was saddened at the loss of a kindhearted soul such as Gonta, nobody blaming him for his actions. Kaito and the other remaining participants demanded that Kokichi explain the secret of the outside world if Gonta actually meant anything to him, but he refused. Kokichi claimed that he was faking his own tears and mocked Gonta post-mortem, calling him an idiot and saying that he died a meaningless death along with Miu. He claimed that he himself inflicted pain and suffering on the group for no other reason than the thrill of it.

Kokichi Oma counterattacks Kaito after the third trial
Kaito, outraged by the Ultimate Supreme Leader's inconsiderate and outright evil attitude, moved to hit him once again. However, due to his illness, Kokichi was easily able to dodge him and punch him back, knocking him to the ground. Kokichi was able to tell that Kaito was slower than usual and pondered on whether or not he was hiding something from everyone. Maki became increasingly worried upon seeing this and threatened to kill Kokichi herself. However, she was stopped by Kaito and everyone rushed to his side as Kokichi continued to monologue. Kokichi wondered why everyone was worried about a guy like Kaito, but Shuichi quickly stabbed back, saying that he should look at himself compared to Kaito. Shuichi states that Kokichi was the pathetic one as no one wanted to be around him, and that that would never change. Kokichi seemingly shrugged this claim off and left the trial grounds, having become bored yet again.

Momota coughing blood post fourth trial
Kaito eventually got up, but Shuich and Maki both remained worried about him, stating that he looked much worse for wear. Kaito tried to stubbornly tell them that he’s fine, but ended up coughing up an unhealthy amount of blood, stunning Maki and Shuichi. Everyone became increasingly concerned, asking him what was wrong, but Kaito shrugged it off as nothing to worry about. Shuichi insisted, but Kaito was still upset with him. The Ultimate Astronaut angrily told him to back off before heading to the trial grounds elevator. Despite Kaito’s stubbornness, Maki still went with him in case he ended up collapsing on the way back.

Broken 
The very next morning, Kaito gathered with everyone else in the dining hall. Everyone else was obviously still worried about him, but Kaito tried to reassure them that he was fine and they all ate breakfast together. After going to get a plate full of food, Kaito told everyone that there’s no point in worrying about what’s outside, stating that they weren’t going to get out with brainpower alone. He still optimistically stated that the world was fine and that Kokichi and Gonta just snapped under pressure. When it came to Shuichi however, Kaito still had trouble looking him in the eye properly. He still felt awkward after lashing out at his sidekick during Gonta’s trial and as a result, a rift had begun to form between them. After eating, Kaito wondered just where Kokichi had gone off to after his monologue yesterday. Everyone became tense and frightened at the mere mention of the Ultimate Supreme Leader, but everyone said that no one had seen him since yesterday. Monokuma showed up after not too long and passed out the last set of items to unlock new areas in the academy with.

One of the keys that Monokuma passed out gave everyone access to the Ultimate Astronaut’s Research Lab. Kaito, Maki, Himiko, Tsumugi, and Shuichi all checked out his lab, with Kaito stating that his lab must be full of "super important stuff". Kaito still felt too awkward to look Shuichi in the eye properly, but was overall very impressed with his lab. They also found a file relating to The Gofer Project, but could not determine any worthwhile information from it. Overall however, Kaito’s lab held nothing of value when it came to finding out anything noteworthy, much to his dismay.

After uncovering all the new areas, Tsumugi gathered everyone in the dining hall, but not to discuss a Flashback Light. Instead, she informed everyone that the message in the courtyard had been completed, "This world is mine. Kokichi Oma". Kaito just wrote it off as Kokichi’s prank, not taking the final message seriously whatsoever. Everyone else seemed to agree with him, though wondered just where Kokichi had gone to and wondered if he took the Flashback Light seeing that none of the others had found it yet. Kaito said that the best way to deal with someone like Kokichi was to just leave them be. Kaito once again reassured everyone like he usually does and told them that he’d figure everything out and that he would get them out of the academy. Shuichi thought to himself that Kaito might really be a hero to have such baseless confidence.

Maki Harukawa teaching Kaito Momota to make a crossbow
That same night, Kaito asked Maki if he could see her Research Lab due to the types of weapons that it contained, hoping to finally put together a plan to fight back against Monokuma. Getting an idea, Maki invited Shuichi as well, hoping to get the duo to finally make up and put what happened during Gonta’s Trial behind them. However, she was less than successful, as Kaito still felt to awkward to look at or talk to Shuichi directly. Instead, Kaito became interested in the black bags in the back of Maki’s Research Lab that contained disassembled crossbows. Maki ended up teaching Kaito assemble a crossbow, and the two shared a moment that ended up reminding Shuichi of the moment he shared with Kaede before she was executed, Kaito struggling while Maki gave him instructions. While Kaito found assembling it to be fairly complicated, he was confident that he could do it by himself the next time. When Maki told him that he had to disassemble it, Kaito claimed that he suddenly didn’t feel too well again before leaving incredibly abruptly, leaving both Maki and Shuichi dejected.

Kaito Momota coughing blood again
As Kaito headed back to his dorm, he once again began coughing up blood, more-so than before. Kaito cursed himself, asking why this had to happen now, but declared that he cannot die here due to yet having to fulfill his dream of going to space.

Kaito’s 
Realizing that he didn’t have much time left, Kaito declared that they were all going to fight Monokuma the very next morning. He wanted to make good on his promise from yesterday, but needed everyone’s help if they were all going to get out of here. He said that now was their chance to finally fight back because the Monokubs were gone, meaning the Exisals would no longer be a threat to them. Everyone was still unsure however due to the academy being completely under his control and having numerous spares. Hearing this, Kaito asked them all if they were fine with the way things are now and that if they weren’t, then they had to fight. Eventually, as more and more people became determined by Kaito’s speech, everyone rallied together in order to fight Monokuma, making sure to get prepared and meet up at the gymnasium at nighttime.

As planned, Kaito and everyone gathered in the gymnasium at nighttime, bringing with him a vast assortment of weapons from Maki’s lab. While everyone was preparing for battle however, Kokichi suddenly appeared as well and brought with him Miu's memento, offering them to his classmates. When Kokichi explained how Miu had no intentions of defying Monokuma or escaping the killing game due to her paranoia, Kaito called her an idiot for giving up so easily. Kokichi then told everyone that wanted to end the killing game as well, but Maki was tired of his deceptive nature and threatened to strangle him once again, asking him just what he was scheming. Maki was eventually stopped by Kaito and the others, dropping Kokichi on the floor. The Ultimate Supreme Leader told everyone that he wouldn't interfere with them any longer before leaving the gym, along with Miu's memento for them to use, the electrohammers. Kaito and the others were still skeptical, thinking that the hammers might have been trapped, but still had to explore every possibility. With Miu’s memento in hand, everyone headed to the Death Road of Despair. As they stood before the tunnel, Kaito and the others remarked that they would finally be able to fulfill Kaede’s wish and escape this Killing Game, making everyone even more determined. With that determination fueling them forward, they headed into the tunnel.

Danganronpa V3 - The remaining survivors standing in front of the exit door After crossing the Death Road of Despair with Miu’s electrohammers, they came across a large metal hatch which they opened up and discovered the apparent state of the outside world, ruined and destroyed by meteorites, shocking everyone. Kaito and the others all became unable to breathe and lost consciousness not long after. An unprecedented amount of time afterwards, the hatch closed and everyone woke up. Kokichi appeared and congratulated everyone for discovering the truth of the outside world. He revealed everything to them, that the world was in ruins, and that they were secretly on a giant spaceship that acted as an ark for the last sixteen survivors of humanity, or rather last "seven" survivors of humanity. Afterwards, Kokichi proclaimed himself as the leader of the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project and the one who let Monokuma into the ark, effectively declaring himself as the Mastermind of the Killing School Semester. Everyone was skeptical at first until Kokichi used a universal remote control to make the Exisals do his bidding, further convincing the remaining survivors that he was in fact the Mastermind. Kaito once again becomes outraged with Kokichi and attempted to punch him yet again. However, Kokichi easily incapacitates the Ultimate Astronaut using the Exisals. Maki attempts to attack him as well, but is stopped by Shuichi. Afterwards, Kokichi requests Shuichi to give him back the Exisal Hangar's alarm remote back, a request that he reluctantly complies to for Kaito's own safety. Kokichi declared that everyone was free to do whatever they pleased before leaving them all in a state of despair and taking Kaito hostage in the Exisal Hangar. Exisal grabbing Kaito
Taken 
Kaito Momota surprised to see Shuichi Saihara visiting him
The next day, Kaito was still being held captive inside the Exisal Hangar. Everyone else had become too apathetic about the state of the outside world to do anything noteworthy, as everyone but Maki had given up. Two days after Kaito had been taken hostage, everyone else had been filled with renewed determination of saving Kaito and stopping Kokichi thanks to a new Flashback Light. Shuichi decided to scout out the Exisal Hangar before they storm it the next morning. There, he looked through the small bathroom window and saw Kaito. The two conversed, Shuichi telling him that everyone but Maki had given up and that they were all getting ready to rescue him the next morning. Hearing this, Kaito was proud but still told them to be careful. It was also at this moment that Shuichi finally felt it necessary to apologize to Kaito about Gonta's trial, but Kaito brushed it off at this point, no longer seeming awkward about the matter. Kaito told Shuichi to not carry all his burdens alone and that he had friends who supported him. The two finally parted ways as to not risk Kokichi overhearing.

Harukawa warehouse ouma momota
At some point afterwards during the same day, Himiko would also go near the bathroom window. Seeing her, Kaito requested that she bring him a disassembled crossbow from Maki's Research Lab, a request which she complied to by giving him the black case containing the disassembled crossbow through the small bathroom window. He proceeded to assemble the crossbow and threatened Kokichi with it, not wishing to kill him, but at the very least overpower him. Kaito shot him in the arm and they got into a quarrel. It was at this time that Maki rode an Exisal into the hangar, intent on ending the Killing Game, saving Kaito, and killing Kokichi due to believing that he was a Remnant of Despair from the false memory triggered by the most recent Flashback Light.

Kokichi made a desperate grab for the remote control that Miu made to control any electronic device, but he was promptly shot in the back by Maki with a poison tipped arrow from her crossbow and brought to the ground. Despite the position he was in, Kokichi belittled Maki, asking her why a Killing Game that should have already ended is still continuing. He had no idea what she meant by Remnant of Despair, and asked her whether or not she really enjoys killing that much. Maki would not hear any of it and proceeded to shoot the killing blow, only to have it intercepted by Kaito, stunning Kokichi and Maki.

Momota protecting Ouma Maki panicked and rushed out of the hangar and made her way to Shuichi's Research Lab to retrieve the antidote, but Kokichi closed the shutter to the hangar to ensure she could not come back in. Later, Maki came back with the antidote and passed it to Kaito through the small bathroom window, but Kokichi immediately stole it and supposedly drank it, much to Kaito's anger, and Maki's horror due to there only being one antidote. Kokichi boasted that another class trial would start now where Kaito would be the victim and Maki would be the blackened, much to her shock. Kaito reassured her that she would be fine and told her to leave. Kokichi Oma takes the poison antidote from Kaito Momota
After Maki fled the scene, Kokichi used the electro bomb to disable the security alarm, the safety mechanism of the press machine inside of the hangar, and the Nanokumas as well. He then gave the antidote to Kaito, revealing that he only pretended to drink it. He forced Kaito to comply with his plan where he would kill him in order to create an unknown victim case so that Monokuma would not be able to create proper judgement during the Class Trial. Kaito initially refused, but when Kokichi made the point that Maki would be the blackened if he didn't, he had no choice but to go along with the plan in order save Maki, and stop the Killing Game as well. It is revealed here that Kokichi has actually been trying to stop the Killing Game from the very beginning. Pretending to be The Mastermind and revealing the supposed truth about the outside world to the others was all done by him to discourage another killing from happening. He states that the idea of someone watching this boring Killing Game where they risk their lives pissed him off. Kaito couldn't tell if he was lying or not, but acknowledged that he was really pulling at his heartstrings in order to get him to work with him.

Both Kokichi and Kaito acted quickly to ensure that the former would not die from poison that was circulating throughout his body. They both made their way to the press machine and began to go through with the plan. Kaito took off his jacket, placed it underneath the press machine, then lied down on it while Kokichi controlled the press machine and filmed the "time of death" with a simple video camera. Kokichi stopped the press machine and the video camera while only Kaito's sleeve was visible, then the two promptly swapped places. Kaito, now controlling both the press machine and camera, turned them both on once again, crushing Kokichi to an unrecognizable, bloody mess, with Kaito's jacket sleeve hanging out of the press as a false clue as to who the victim was.


Danganronpa V3 Chapter 5 - Closing Argument Revealed
Kaito would proceed to retrieve the video camera, snap the cords to the press machine to ensure it would not move again, and hid inside the red Exisal until the Class Trial began, where he imitated the Ultimate Supreme Leader himself thanks to the Exisal's voice changing function, as well as a book that Kokichi prepared for this exact moment that detailed his exact way of speaking and specific behaviors unique to him, essentially carrying on his will and plan until Shuichi is able to deduce that the person inside of the Exisal is not Kokichi, but Kaito.

Kaito Momota revealing himself as the Exisal's pilot
Despite Shuichi's deduction however, Kaito would continue to imitate Kokichi, intent on carrying on his plan. This forced Shuichi to lie and back-pedal to the person inside of the Exisal being Kokichi and the victim actually being Kaito, much to everyone's shock. After hearing Shuichi's lie, Kaito concluded that that was enough and decided to come out of the Exisal, clearing up all the confusion as to who is the victim and who is the culprit. Kaito tells Shuichi that he was amazing for having worked out Kokichi's plan, though Shuichi could not help but feel sad about having condemn yet another fellow friend.

Kaito's 
After the trial, Kaito congratulated everyone for coming to the right conclusion, but no one could do anything other than be silent. Maki asked him why he killed Kokichi despite saying that killing was wrong. Kaito proceeds to explain Kokichi's whole plan to his fellow survivors and what they discussed inside the hangar. He explained that the detail of Kokichi's plan was very promising and well-made in order to end the Killing Game for good, so he agreed to the plan with intentions to ruin Monokuma's Killing Game, as well as saving Maki from being his killer. After finishing his explanation, Kaito proceeds to say that he doesn't have much time left due his illness. Kaito apologized to Shuichi, claiming that he was jealous of his abilities as a detective and that it was his skills that let them all survive this long. Shuichi responded that it was only because of him that he was able to stand up and have confidence. Kaito could only respond by coughing up blood, much to everyone's horror.

Monokuma stated that it's time to get on with the execution, but Maki refuses to let Kaito get killed regardless of whether or not he's sick. It is then that all five Monokuma Kubs are revealed to have been reconstructed, meaning that all five Exisal's will once again be under the Monokubs' control and ready to protect their father once again. Despite this however, Maki was not phased though Kaito told her to stop, much to her annoyance and disappointment. She told him that he was the first person she had ever ended up liking, much to his surprise. Kaito apologizes to Maki, telling her that it's impossible either way due to his illness. He proceeds to tell her that if she was able to like someone like him then she could even like herself, to which she responds to by breaking down in tears. Kaito told Monokuma to get on with the punishment, but not before threatening him and stating that his friends will stop him and put an end to the Killing Game once and for all.

During his execution, Kaito's illness ends up being the end of him instead of the execution, as he died in the middle of it with a smile on his face, happy that he was able to die on his own terms and not Monokuma's, much to his annoyance.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 5 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 5 Execution

Kaito's 
Everyone else was noticeably saddened about losing Kaito, but his death ended up fueling their determination even more than before as everyone aside from K1-B0 gathers in the courtyard once again to train, intent on carrying on his will to end the Killing Game once and for all. Shuichi even began to adopt Kaito's optimistic mentality, which was pointed out by the others.

Kaito Momota's audition for DanganronpaDuring the final Class Trial, when Tsumugi was outed as the true mastermind and attempted to break everyone's spirit by telling them that everything was fiction, Kaito's audition tape was shown. Here it was revealed that he was a psychopath who wanted to murder in order to earn fame and fortune to make all his impossibilities possible, greatly contradicting his Killing Game counterpart.
Despite Tsumugi's words however, Kaito's sacrifice and dedication to protect Maki had a profound impact on her as well. After Shuichi convinced Maki to abandon her vote, she came to the conclusion that she'd believe in herself even if everything was fiction. She stated that if she couldn't do that there would be no meaning for her existence. She said that if she can make fiction change reality, it then wouldn't be fiction and it would give Kaito's life meaning, choosing to believe her feelings for him were in fact real. She resolved to use her own life as a weapon and abandoned her vote along with the others.

Creation and 

His given name kanji, 解斗 kaito, means "absolution of the Dipper [constellation]" - somewhat matching his space-related title. His last name kanji, 百田 momota, means "one hundred rice paddies". Kazutaka Kodaka, the series creator, chose the name Momota Kaito for him because he believed the name Momota sounded dignified and hot-blooded, and Kaito simply because it "sounds badass."

Comparisons could be made between him and Kiyotaka Ishimaru due to having similar roles as the "hot-blooded bro character", and was created as the "motivational bro character."

His birthday, April 12, marks the International Day of Human Space Flight.

Alternate 
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Kaito is first seen inside the cafeteria along with Tenko Chabashira and Himiko Yumeno. When Kaito reveals he was cheating to become an astronaut trainee, Kaede Akamatsu becomes concerned of him.


Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Kaito Momota
Kaito has gel-spiked purple hair that's grown out both at the top and bottom of his head, that Kodaka describes as a space jet coming out of a black hole and a short goatee. His eyes are a warm lilac, and he has fairly long eyelashes. He also has a slightly tanned complexion.

Kaito wears a white t-shirt kumadori design stamped on it, on top of that he wears a long sleeved dress shirt with a breast pocket. On this shirt are black buttons which are currently not in use. On top of that, he wears a long, purple blazer with a galaxy design on the inside of it. However, his coat is worn improperly at all times, instead, Kaito wears his left sleeve and leaves the right side of the coat to drape over his shoulder to leave it fluttering to show the space design.

He wears purple pants matching the color of his blazer that are rolled up over his ankles. Kaito wears slippers with the same galaxy design on them.

In his promotional art, he's featured his entire coat draped over both of his shoulders, no slippers, and a mysterious pipe that resembles Kiseru.

In the prologue, he wears the uniform of his previous high school. He wears a dark blue gakuran with yellow buttons, unbuttoned along with the button-up beneath, showing off a red t-shirt underneath. It's sloppily put together as well. His slacks match the top part of his uniform as well, and white shoes that are worn outside usually.

His hair is still styled the way it is during the killing game for some odd reason.


Kaito is an energetic person with a passionate heart, who lives for dreams and romance, and tends to give somewhat dramatic encouraging speeches for others. He believes you need to take risks for the sake of your dreams and should't limit yourself nor ever give up. Due to his clichéd hot-blooded spirit and his document falsification he could pass the astronaut examination, proving that he is smart. Being the Ultimate Astronaut, he harbors a dream and a great longing to go to space, and already considers himself a space legend. He often refers to himself as "The Luminary of the Stars" and talks about the Universe being on his side. Furthermore, he talks about being popular with women and children, and he thinks that his goatee gives him a "glamorous celebrity vibe".

Throughout the game, Kaito described himself as a passionate protagonist of his own story who would help the others to survive the killing game. He considers himself a hero type, and occasionally offers to make other people his "sidekicks". Because of that, Kaito always tries his best to unite the group, and he 'is very much a reliable older brother type of character. He is very loyal to his friends and always there in order to aid them, such as when Shuichi Saihara broke down after Kaede Akamatsu's death. He offered his help to regain his spirit by starting training routine during the nighttime and even made him his "sidekick". It is also because of this nature that he became a moral support to the other participants. According to Shuichi, Kaito has the ability to draw people to him, and he has been described as an interesting and amusing person.In his Free Time Events and Love Suite Event, Kaito shows interest in friendly and even romantic rivalry, though he is shown to feel conflicted about romantic feelings because he doesn't wish to be held back by anyone as his true longing is the space and the universe. While he is excited to look at the dirty books in the library as he thinks it's something guys would normally do, there has also been a moment in which the conversation topic was girls and peeping, and he appeared to become completely distracted and forgot the original topic and instead begun to talk dramatically about man's passion for exploring unknown worlds, claiming it is true man's passion.

Interestingly, Kaito seems to be a good judge of character and can give correct advice at times. While he is seen helping Shuichi and Maki in the main story, this is even more notable in the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, as he correctly judges multiple other charactersーfor example, he tells Izuru Kamukura that he will begin to think everything is boring if he keeps repeating how boring everything is, he quickly notices that Nagito Komaeda isn't truly interested in him nor space (as he only cares about him as a symbol of hope) and he tells Mondo Owada you can't move forward in life if you keep looking at past. Perhaps most notably, Kaito sometimes seems to understand Kokichi's reasoning better than any other student. However, he is also shown to be easily angered by mindsets that contrast his own, and he stubbornly refuses to believe in them. He strongly hates Kokichi's lies and unwillingness to cooperate, and his anger often clouds his judgement. He also cannot empathize with Ryoma's suicidal way of thinking, considering him a sissy and a fool, as he believes there is always a reason to live even if just small things like good food or friends. He is also notably hot-headed in general, occasionally taking action without thinking and wanting to punch others if angered enough. He can also be quite forceful when offering his support to others. In the Japanese version, he also swears a lot, but this is downplayed in the English localization.

With his clichéd passionate nature, Kaito possesses some slightly old-fashioned opinions, believing that men should be real men (often dramatically talking about "man's passion") and women should not use real weapons and are more suited to childcare (even telling this to Maki, who is the Ultimate Assassin.) Along with considering Ryoma a sissy for having suicidal thoughts, he doesn't like it whenever Gonta cries and apologizes because "men shouldn't apologize so much". At one point, during Chapter 2, he calls Korekiyo Shinguji with the Japanese term "okama" for appearing effeminate, which is often used as a derogatory term for very effeminate gay men or crossdressers (in the English version, he just calls him out for acting "so girly"). However, Kaito himself also has trouble with weakness and appears to have a sort of complex for being the hero, not wanting to show his own weaknesses and troubles to his sidekicks even if it means lying to them as he wishes to come across as a strong figure they can lean on. He had a hard time admitting that even he can make mistakes and felt envious of Shuichi who used his detective skills to save everyone. In his Harmonius Heart Event, he is troubled by the students' trapped situation and feels he cannot show such weakness in front of his sidekick. If Shuichi tries to reassure him that it's okay to be afraid sometimes, Kaito insists that it's not like him to make others worry. He feels embarrassed, believing he has failed his sidekick, and tells Shuichi that he wants to be left alone. Even if Shuichi agrees that it's not like him to show weakness and that he never backs down, Kaito is still bothered by it and Shuichi can tell he is hiding something even when he claims with a grin that he is motivated again. If Shuichi reminds Kaito that he is not just a sidekick but also a friend, and that Kaito can open up to his best friend, Kaito is silent for a moment and then thanks Shuichi with a smile and claims he is okay now. He claims all his doubts are gone now that he knows that Shuichi thinks of him like that.

Undoubtedly, Kaito's biggest flaw is his arbitrary complete trust in others, which is often misguided. He is sincere and believes in friendship no matter what, trusting who he wants to trust even against all evidence and logic. He believes Maki without questions despite evidence against her, with his only reason being "an official hunch from Kaito Momota, the Luminary of the Stars himself", causing other students to call him an idiot because of it. He hates to be called an idiot, claiming that it hurts his feelings. During the fourth trial, he denied all the clear evidence that showed Gonta Gokuhara is the killer of Miu Iruma, which ended up making things worse and caused a major risk to everyone.

Kaito can also be slightly comical, sometimes having very over exaggerated expressions and reactions, and can easily come across as not that smart due to his beliefs and occasional silly behavior such as eating way too much food at one point due to feeling pumped up or him claiming he was the one who wore women's underwear in a desperate attempt to clear suspicion against him. His notable weakness is his massive fear of supernatural, strongly disliking anything related to it and grabbing other people in horror during such situations. After Kaito and some of the other students enter the casino in Chapter 2, Kaito is shown to have horrible luck in gambling, which is something Kokichi makes fun of while Kaito seemed to completely lose his spirit and cried wondering how could The Luminary of the Stars lose so pathetically. He then made excuses such as claiming that his true skills are meant for the universe and not something like gambling, and pointed out that he had quit gambling earlier, even though he had just been playing. However, despite some of his comical traits, Kaito is actually very intelligent and talented in various ways as he is an astronaut trainee.

It was revealed that before the brainwashing, Kaito was a psychopath who planned to murder all the other participants in order to gain money and honor, with the attitude he had during the game having a twisted meaning of "nothing is impossible after you're rich and famous enough". Though, it should be noted that it is left unclear whether or not this is true and it could have been a lie made by the mastermind, as pointed out by Shuichi.


Ultimate 
Kaito's talent as the Ultimate Astronaut is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Kaito is an astronaut trainee in the past.

In his first Free Time Events, he claimed that he could speak Japanese, English, and Russian fluently, including understanding their culture. This includes survival training, medicine, etc. Apparently, it was all a part of his training as an astronaut.

In other 
Kaito's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Astronaut
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「宇宙飛行士」	Super High School Level Astronaut
Français Astronaute Ultime	Ultimate Astronaut
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的航天員	Super High School Level Astronaut
中文 超高中级的航天员	Super High School Level Astronaut

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Maki 
At first, Kaito had many disagreements with the Ultimate Child Caregiver. He was frightened when Maki suggested that he take on the Monokuma Kubs while in the Exisal form, and was angered when she pushed the blame for dividing the unity between the students onto Kaede. Maki also blamed Kaito several times during the first trial, calling him suspicious and an idiot quite frequent. Interestingly, at one point, Kaito correctly guessed with his intuition that Maki looks like a person who can fight.

Despite their earlier disagreements, Kaito later strongly believed in Maki's innocence during the second trial, as he always does with people he wants to believe in. Maki was surprised and a bit confused by this sudden trust in her, and appeared to be unwillingly touched by Kaito's faith in her. After Maki was revealed to be the Ultimate Assassin by Kokichi, Kaito was very doubtful and believed Maki isn't that kind of person. Afterwards, he continued to constantly spend time with her, wishing to "take off her mask" and even nicknaming her "Maki Roll" (Harumaki in the Japanese version) to her displeasure. She appears to be annoyed by him, but doesn't seem willing to chase him away.

Kaito then began dragging her to Shuichi and his training regime even though Maki massively overpowers them in the training, stating it was a waste of time, that she's easily bored of the exercise. Despite that, in the next night Maki seems to have taken the training more seriously after Kaito told her that it was for her to "defeat her enemy". Despite her initial irritation with Kaito skipping out on training, she goes with it, aware he's most likely not feeling good. However, as shown when Kaito hugged her out of fear after Tenko's demise (although this was only because she was coincidentally the person closest to him at the time), resulting in her punching him. He was still shown to care for her even after this.

Maki soon started to show more care for Kaito during Chapter 4 and began to open up to him and Shuichi more and more. She even began to have romantic feelings for Kaito, apparent when she got jealous when Kaito appeared interested in Tsumugi's sensitive neck and later when Kaito chose to team up with Shuichi over her in the virtual world. She is also furious when Kokichi knocked down Kaito following Gonta's execution, even going as far as to make threats, and was shocked when Kaito suddenly began coughing blood. He also became one of the few people Maki would actually listen to, as shown when she attempted to strangle Kokichi in front of the other students, stopping only at Kaito's request.

In Chapter 5, the two join in the group effort to take down Kokichi, who was believed to be the mastermind at the time. After Kaito was kidnapped by Kokichi, Maki continued to watch the hangar where he was imprisoned in, with Tsumugi even pointing out to Shuichi that she must have feelings for Kaito. When Maki attempted to kill Kokichi by shooting him with a poisoned arrow, Kaito purposely took the hit to prevent her from doing so, and it is implied that he wanted to avoid her becoming the Blackened.

Kaito later commited the deed himself, and confessed to it during the Class Trial despite Maki tearfully begging him to stop. He stopped Maki from carrying out her threats to kill the Monokuma Kubs, and requested that she not cry for him before saying his farewells to her. Just before Kaito got executed, Maki confessed her feelings to him. While he made no mention of liking her back, he complimented her for her development and stated that she must be finally able to love herself now after falling for a guy like him. During their voting time, Maki had no choice but had to vote for Kaito as the culprit still due to his final words before his execution started. Kaito eventually became the only one of Maki's companions that she had any genuine care for. Kaito is the only person who Maki truly cares after his upcoming death and is the only one who made Maki cry for the first time in the Killing Game.

It's shown that Maki still remembers Kaito dearly after his demise. She feels thankful to him for saving her and the other students, and decides not to cry anymore, as Kaito requested. Sometimes when she thinks of him fondly, she tends to call him "that idiot" or "reckless guy". Although at first devastated after being told that her feelings for Kaito were a mere fabrication, she decided that this was not true and her feelings for him have always been real.

Shuichi 
Kaito feels eased and relaxed during the class trial in the demo because he knows that Shuichi, guided by his talent as the Ultimate Detective, will eventually discover the truth.

These two eventually become close friends and come to share a close bond. After Kaede was executed in the first trial, Kaito states how Shuichi pisses him off the most and immediately punched him in the face and states how he is a whining little baby who doesn't act like a man. Later, Kaito felt bad for lashing out at Shuichi, recognizing he's in pain and decided to cheer him up. Kaito proclaims Shuichi as his "sidekick". He'll take responsibilities of Shuichi's investigations and deductions, so he should not worry about anything else but discovering the truth. It was shown that Kaito visits Shuichi often and invites him to hang out with him. They investigate together and help one another. When Shuichi's stuck with clues in the class trial, Kaito helps Shuichi by motivating him and staying on his side.

In Chapter 4, they became distant after Shuichi took Kokichi's side in the class trial, by deeming Gonta as Miu's murderer. By the course of the fifth chapter, Kaito and Shuichi became awkward, until the two of them talked and renewed their friendship when Kaito was taken hostage by Kokichi.

Shuichi was greatly saddened to discover that Kaito was the one who killed Kokichi in Chapter 5. Kaito told Shuichi that he was, actually, jealous of Shuichi for his deduction abilities. Because of his reasoning, they were able to stay alive, passing many Class Trials. Kaito made him promise not to cry, however, Shuichi had immense difficulty following through on this and later admitted to Maki that Kaito was the only reason why he was still alive. Many of Shuichi's happy memories during the killing game were shown to involve Kaito, showing that he still remembered him as a close friend and companion, and he was determined to keep moving forward.

In Chapter 6, Shuichi felt upset when he figured out that his and Kaito's friendship is part of the fabrication along with Kaito's personality. However, Shuichi felt motivated by K1-B0 and believed that their friendship is true.

In general, Shuichi greatly admires Kaito for his honesty and helpfulness, though he does recognize his sillier moments. According to Shuichi, he has never been around someone like Kaito, and he says that his own overthinking and anxious attitude fades away in his company. He thinks it might be what he has been missing all this time and that "only someone like Kaito could tell him what he needs to hear". Shuichi has also a few times gotten flustered while thinking about Kaito, seemingly feeling some attraction towards him. In Chapter 4, when the other students agree that Shuichi is a masochist, Maki points out seriously that Shuichi always looks so pleased whenever Kaito gives him orders and appears happy as the sidekick, and that he might just be into that sort of thing.

Kokichi 
Kokichi and Kaito have a violent relationship, marked by constant antagonism and disagreements, since Kokichi acts like a stereotypical villainous character while Kaito is the stereotypical hero type. Neither understands the other's way of thinkingーKokichi believes Kaito is gullible and dumb for having such blind faith in others with no logic, while Kaito hates Kokichi's lies and more cynical way of thinking. However, Kokichi also understands that they simply have different views due to coming from different backgrounds and has stated that he doesn't wish for Kaito to change because his current attitude makes things interesting, showing that he does appreciate Kaito in a way. Kaito doesn't seem to have this sort of appreciation for Kokichi, only finding his views extremely frustrating and always refusing to believe Kokichi's words despite his claims of believing in everyone, as he believes that Kokichi is never going to change his ways.

Despite his best attempts to stay calm, Kaito sometimes ended up lashing out at Kokichi when the latter infuriated him, even punching him once. Kaito often made threats toward Kokichi, and in turn, Kokichi would taunt or anger him more but for the sake of trying to overpower him and scare him. Throughout the game, Kokichi mocks Kaito for his foolishness, going as far as to call him an idiot several times in the Chapter 2 trial for blindly believing in Maki. Kaito does get pissed off at the insults, shouting at him and the others to stop calling him an idiot. Often, the two's fighting can turn into childish arguments. However, Kokichi occasionally appears genuinely scared of Kaito's violence and sometimes runs away and hides from him for quite a while.

However, despite their extremely rocky relationship, it's been shown that Kaito can be more understanding towards Kokichi and tries to think about the reasoning behind Kokichi's actions when he is calmed down. He has talked to Shuichi about it more than once, such as when he recognized the way he lashed out in the beginning of Chapter 4 was most likely due to the fact he was frustrated with all the murder and tense situations they've been put through, and Kaito also appeared to understand Kokichi's motive in Chapter 2 though he was unsure about it. Notably, Kaito realizes how Kokichi's behavior changes during Chapter 4, appearing much more malicious than before, and he wonders what happened to him. Furthermore, Kaito appears protective of Kokichi whenever Maki attempts to strangle him, and clearly doesn't want him dead despite their issues.

During the Chapter 3 trial, Kokichi goes on about how it's impossible to trust anyone to their fullest, so he doesn't see the point of trusting anyone at all. He goes as far as to say Tenko lied to Himiko about her intentions during the ritual, accusing the victim of committing suicide underneath the cage to get them all killed. For this, Kaito calls Kokichi "such a naive dude", telling him that everyone has a secret to keep, and he shouldn't get so paranoid over someone's true thoughts. Kokichi comments that no one has ever called him naive before, and is taken aback by it. In the Japanese version, Kaito calls Kokichi "pure" instead of "naive", which garners the same shocked result from the supreme leader.

During Chapter 4, Kokichi attempts to separate Kaito and Shuichi by telling Shuichi that he should be his friend and partner instead. As a result, the two keep fighting for Shuichi's attention, and Kokichi even teasingly mocks Kaito by asking twice if he likes him or something because he keeps pestering him when he is trying to talk with Shuichi. Kokichi claims that Kaito's naive behavior is troublesome for Shuichi's work as a detective and tells him to leave Shuichi alone. During the fourth trial, he is highly amused when Shuichi talks back to Kaito even though he is supposed to be his sidekick and he thinks it's really funny when Kaito looses his cool. He smugly mocks Kaito whenever Shuichi agrees with his reasoning over Kaito's and proclaims how well he and Shuichi work together. The two's attitudes towards each other turn increasingly more aggressive when it becomes apparent that Gonta might be the culprit. Kaito refuses to believe it and believes Kokichi is just trying to trick and blame Gonta, while in turn Kokichi becomes very frustrated when Kaito's stubbornness derails the trial and even causes a great risk for everyone else. Kaito yells at Kokichi to stop when he is shouting at Gonta, and with complete seriousness says that he doesn't want to survive if it means stooping down to Kokichi's level. Kokichi seems genuinely very insulted by this, stating it was a low blow with a faked smile, and then furiously yells at Kaito to go die in a hole and stop getting in the way of people who want to survive. Kokichi then appears to calm down his anger a bit and eventually Kaito is forced to realize that Gonta truly is the culprit. However, it's heavily implied that Kaito still voted for Kokichi out of spite. When Kokichi turns silent after the execution, Kaito demands him to explain himself to everyone if he truly did care about Gonta like he appeared to right before the execution. Kaito is shocked when Kokichi instead begins to act even more evil than before. When Kokichi calls Miu and Gonta's deaths meaningless, Kaito loses his temper and attacks Kokichi, but gets instead punched by the smaller boy due to his weakened state caused by the illness. Kokichi mockingly claims that the punch was just an accident and then indirectly reveals that he knows Kaito is ill and has lied to everyone about it.

After "revealing" himself as the mastermind, Kokichi captures Kaito because his spirit would get everyone fired up and his hotheadedness is troublesome in general. He believes that Kaito's attitude with a group of other people could cause a new killing game. Kaito does attempt to persuade Kokichi for answers by threatening him with a crossbow retrieved by Himiko and shooting him in the arm with it. They begin to start fighting, but it's interrupted by Maki breaking into the hangar to torture and kill Kokichi herself. Kaito, however, protects Kokichi from the finishing arrow. Even when both had been shot with the poison arrow Maki equipped, Kaito swore he wouldn't allow himself to die, and stop him, and Kokichi is impressed by his determination. He calls him "not boring", which is a huge and genuine compliment Kokichi has given only to Shuichi and Kaede besides Kaito, indicating that Kaito earned his respect.

Kaito then murdered Kokichi, according to their plan, seemingly to protect Maki and because of blackmail. However, even though Kaito was roped into helping with Kokichi's plan, he later reveals that he was actually convinced when it's purpose was to ruin the killing game, and admitted that he found the idea pretty awesome, and willingly went through with the plan to end the killing game with Kokichi. Kaito also listened to Kokichi's last words, but later admits that he wasn't sure what was true and what was Kokichi's true character. Kaito admits he hated Kokichi and that he pissed him off, but also admits that only a crazy guy like him could have a crazy plan needed to defeat Monokuma, and the two appeared to form a sort of mutual respect during their last moments.

Kaede 
At first, Kaede is angered when Kaito informs her that he had broken the law in order to become an astronaut. However, he is later shown to be one of the few who always support her during the Killing School Semester, as they have similar optimistic way of thinking.

On occasion Kaede gave rousing speeches of optimism during times of distress when the class had first met and Kaito always responded agreeably stating he would have said the same, requesting Kaede and him hug which she graciously refused showing despite their relationship lacking affection, they both share the same mindset. Kaede is shown to appreciate his support, though she mostly seems to thank him only in her thoughts.

Kaito is highly supportive of Kaede, and compliments her on her tenacity to round up everyone and have them work together, enough to say she'd make a good astronaut in his Free Time Events. He does, however, comment on how quick she is to act on her own, to which he offers her to be his sidekick. She graciously refuses, but is uplifted by Kaito's supportive attitude.

Kaito is quick to defend Kaede's actions during Chapter 1. When Kokichi tries to persuade the other students that Kaede was forcing them into despair, Kaito becomes angered and assures Kaede that she was not at fault. After Kaede is revealed to be the culprit behind Rantaro's murder, Kaito cries and along with Gonta and Tenko, even threatens to fight for her life at first, although Kaede quickly puts a stop to this herself.

Gonta 
Kaito was highly trusting of Gonta and cared for him as it was shown that they even attempted to fight against the Exisals along with Tenko Chabashira. When Gonta was being accused of killing Miu, Kaito refused to listen to Shuichi and didn't vote Gonta as the culprit and blamed it on Kokichi.

Kaito occasionally scolded Gonta for apologizing so much, since he believed men shouldn't apologize so easily.

Ryoma 
Kaito is shown to be disappointed with Ryoma due to his depressive and suicidal mood, while everyone besides him wanted to survive the Killing Game. He certainly didn't expect the famous Ryoma Hoshi was changed so much to be "that" type of person. In Chapter 2, he is against Ryoma's suggestion to exchange the motive video, and Kaito wanted him not to get in the other's way with his negative view about surviving. Believing that men should never give up, Kaito is very irritated by how welcoming Ryoma seems towards death. However, deep inside, he wanted Ryoma to "wake up" and have a will to live. During the investigation, Kaito told Shuichi that he was a member of tennis club in middle school and there were no tennis player who didn't know who Ryoma is. Kaito might have a sort of admiration towards Ryoma for his tennis playing, since he once called him "the great Ryoma Hoshi".

Upon learning the truth about Ryoma's intention to find out his reason to live in order to regain his spirit to fight alongside the others, Kaito called him foolish for not having a simple motive instead; having good food or his classmates, though he was notably slightly devastated with the Ultimate Tennis Pro's unfortunate death.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Kaito Momota, Hotel Kumasutra#Kaito Momota

Kaito Pixel Head Icon
Kaito Momota
Loves:	040. Spla-Teen Vogue, 047. Milk Puzzle, 059. Plastic Moon Buggy Model, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 095. Home Planet, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	009. Astro Cake, 014. Rock Hard Ice Cream, 023. Workout Clothes, 024. Mono-Jinbei, 027. Cheer Coat Uniform, 034. White Robot Mustache, 039. Story of Tokono, 044. Tennis Ball Set, 045. High-End Headphones, 056. Indigo Hakama, 061. Hand Grips, 062. Commemorative Medal Set, 067. Proxilingual Device, 074. Sports Towel, 077. Clock-Shaped Gaming Console, 080. Aluminum Water Bottle, 086. Pillow of Admiration, 090. Electric Tempest, 091. Space Egg, 098. Hammock, 099. Cleansing Air Freshener, 101. Marigold Seeds, 102. Rock-Paper-Scissors Cards, 106. Dangan Werewolf, 107. Tentacle Machine, 109. Cosmic Blanket, 110. Fully-Automated Shaved Ice Machine, 111. Gun of Man's Passion, 113. Dark Belt

DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"I'm Kaito Momota, Luminary of the Stars! Even crying children adore the Ultimate Astronaut! How about it!? I'm an astronaut! Isn't that cool!?"
"Sometimes you gotta be a little reckless to make your dreams a reality! No way can I wait till after college! I wanna get to space as fast as I can!"
"When we find the culprit, I'm gonna punch some sense back into them!"
"Who you callin' a dumbass!? I'm Kaito Momota, Luminary of the Stars!"
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"Quit complaining and grumbling, or it'll turn into a habit."
"Besides, this cage is nothing compared to the vastness of the universe!"
"I'm Kaito Momota, Luminary of the Stars! Even crying children adore the Ultimate Astronaut!"
"Sometimes you gotta be a little reckless to make your dreams a reality!"
"No way I can wait till after college! I wanna get to space as fast as I can!"
"Yeah, everyone told me it was impossible, but I never gave up! Not for a moment! That's because...limits don't exist unless you set them yourself!"
"There are no walls you can't get over! The same goes for that one!"
Chapter 1:

"Shut up! That's just the stupid end result! It's not like you wanted it to go that way! Listen up. Don't apologize for something that's not your fault! It'll just make you feel bad! Everyone just decided to blame you and give up. I'm gonna give 'em a piece of my mind later."
"You're exactly right! We can't give up so easily!"
"Anyway, it doesn't matter if Monokuma says it's impossible! We'll show him what we can do!"
"Sometimes you gotta be a little reckless to make your dreams a reality!"
"But now we know the universe is watching! That bear got the cosmic justice he deserved!"
"Don't say stupid shit like that! Even kids know killing is bad! It's common sense!"
"Well, I won't stick my nose in it! I decided to believe in you guys. But don't do anything too rash, okay? After all, you said we were all going to get out of here together. After I heard you say that, I had no choice but to put all my money on you and Shuichi!"
"If you suspect me, you better pursue it to the end. Investigate until you're satisfied. If you don't do that, you'll never reach the truth. Rantaro will have died for no reason. This is where you need to let your Ultimate talent shine!"
"Bring it! I'll show them how I, Kaito Momota, Luminary of the Stars, live!"
"Yeah, that's right! A man shouldn't apologize so easily!"
"Hey culprit! Quit hiding! Just be a man and fess up already!"
"Kaede fought with her life on the line! And so will I!"
"I, Kaito Momota, am not gonna let you have your way anymore! Got it!? I'm gonna punch that grin off your face. For sure"
"Didn't hear what Kaede said!? She said...she believed in you! That she passed her on to you! But what the hell's wrong with you!? You didn't say a damn thing to Monokuma! You call yourself a man!?!?"
"Understand? There's only one way to get through this awful feeling. No one's gonna be able to console you're just sitting here alone. If anyone's gonna help you, it'll be her...in your memories."
Chapter 2:

"Hehe! Just a regular day for the Luminary of the Stars! My intuition usually leads me to victory!"
"What are you saying? If I don't meet his challenge, I'm not a true man! Besides, there's no way my intuition as Luminary of the Stars can be wrong!"
"But...we can't win by just running away all the time! If you want to win, you've gotta be a little reckless sometimes. If we can't face this danger, there's no way we'll be able to defeat Monokuma."
"If you wanna win, you gotta make a stand somewhere or you'll never move forward. If we run away, our kids will grow up to be the kinda people who run away from things like this!"
"We just gotta work together. If we cooperate, we'll make it out of here alive. Just like a certain someone said..."
"We're different! We all want to live! Wake up alrady! You're like some zombie wandering around with no will to live!"
"Hey! Don't say that! The impossible is possible! All you gotta do is make it so!"
"Well, you gotta deal with your worries yourself. I can't give you an answer for those, but... At least you know you're weak. As long as you can admit that... Then you'll be okay! You just gotta train and get stronger!"
"Listen up! Training is the only way to overcome your weakness."
"Your head and body are connected, right? At the end of the day, they're the same!"
"I just don't understand why the instincts of Kaito Momota, Luminary of the Stars, were off!"
"Don't you dare underestimate the instincts of Kaito Momota! I challenge you, Kokichi!"
"I-I see... I guess you can't underestimate luck."
"Sh-Shut up! My skills are suited for the universe!"
"I'm seriously pissed we gotta do this, but it's our only chance to survive."
"I'm more of a scientist kinda guy, so I'm not really cut out for investigations. Plus, the only stage fit for Kaito Momota, Luminary of the Stars, is the universe itself. So I'll leave the details to you. Pave the path for my success! I'll take full responsibility. Since you're my sidekick, there's nothing to worry about."
"A man shouldn't apologize so easily..." (To Gonta)
"If you think you can't help, then work till you can! That's what you can do!"
"There's no time to waste. Isn't that right, sidekick!?"
"Even if it's something you can't bear by yourself, it'd be possible with everyone. That's what cooperation is, right?"
"Hmm, so detectives get bothered by small details, huh? Like an overbearing mother-in-law nitpicking a young wife!"
"Then get to it! Looking around is how you find clues!"
"Don't worry! You can do it. I believe in you."
"I believe in you because I want to. Do I need a reason other than that? Isn't that why you believed in Kaede? I mean, sure, I might get betrayed in the end, but... If I worry about that, I won't be able to believe in the people I wanna believe in!"
"Shuichi, we're still young... I can't die before I've had my first drink or gone to space! If you're not going to get yourself in gear now, then when!? Now's all you've got!"
"Yeah, let's put an end to this at the Class Trial."
"Wh-What!? My goatee's not creepy! It gives me a glamorous celebrity vibe!"
"In the end, the only thing that matters is what I believe! Right!? Whether I believe or not! Whether I *want* to believe or not! That's the only thing that matters!"
"Tell 'em, Shuichi! Blow 'em all away with the truth!"
"Listen up! Do a good job here and I'll be able to put an end to this trial! It all starts with you! You be the opening act, and I'll be the main event! And then together, we're gonna save everyone! I believe in you! So I'm gonna leave the rest to you!"
"I take responsibility for any mistakes my sidekick makes. So use those skills of yours I believe in...to shove the truth down their throats!"
"What kind of face is that, Shuichi? If you're my sidekick, then suck it up! That goes for all of you! To hell with all this value of life shit! Life's not just some thing! You can't trade it or put a price on it! And your life doesn't just belong to you. It's for your parents, your grandparents, your friends, even your neighbors. It's not something you can just decide to throw away on your own. So we didn't do the wrong thing! Life's purpose is to be lived! As long as you stay alive, anything's possible. You can even go to the stars... So I'm just gonna go ahead and say it! I wanna live! I haven't even traveled to space yet. There's no way in hell I'm gonna die here!"
"Those motive videos would mess us up, it's better if we just believe in each other."
"Yeah, true... It's okay to run sometimes. You just gotta win in the end. That's all you gotta do..."
Chapter 3:

"Stop saying stupid stuff! Look at me, I'm alive! Hale and hearty!"
"Listen up! When a hero has to fight with a big enemy, they train, train, then train some more! That's what this training is! It's important for a hero like me. So you guys can be like super dog, cat, or horse by my side to help me be the hero!"
"Even super pets think of themselves as heroes. The same goes to both of you! Each of you are the heroes of your own stories! So act more like it!"
"Yeah, you've been running away. It's pretty pathetic. But...if you want to stand against it, even a little... I'll train with you! So you can be strong!"
"Hm? If someone's weak, you help them out. Teamwork's important for astronauts. If someone's weak and suffering, there's no way you can just leave them!"
"Alright, bro. I'm counting on you as my sidekick. Let's end this nightmare together."
"No way we're gonna die here... I'm definitely gonna find the culprit."
"The impossible is possible, all you gotta do is make it so."
"Our only option is to face her death head-on!"
"Himiko... I understand what you're going through. So I'm gonna help you out! Let's work together to find the truth! I'm not gonna let anyone say her death didn't matter!"
"Abandoning someone who died and only thinking about your own survival... That's just as bad as a hit-and-run! I won't forgive something so messed up! If we don't find out who killed her, we won't be able to work together. Not now, not ever."
"Even if this trial isn't for her, in order for us to survive... We need to get to the bottom of Tenko's death! Not just to survive this trial! But so we can keep going and live on!"
"We're all just people, y'know? Of course we're gonna have some secrets. What matters is whether there's any malice behind 'em."
"Well duh. It's impossible to know for sure what others are thinking. That's why it all comes down to whether or not you believe in yourself! If you get betrayed, it's not their fault! It's your fault for believing in them! That's why I believed in Maki Roll! Because I wanted to believe in her!"
"Alright then, let's go with that! We all gotta put our heads together now!"
"Either way, we gotta look for more possibilities!"
"Alright, Shuichi! I'll leave the finale to you! Bring down the house!"
"Man...this is stupid. What people believe in is up to them, but... Living people shouldn't have to suffer because of the dead! The living are more precious than the dead! No matter what!"
"But hey... None of us gave up, right? I know we're all gonna escape! I'm not gonna rely on a god, spirits, or the dead. Just you guys! I believe in all of you!"
"I...don't have time to be dying... I still haven't gone into space yet. Damn it... No way am I gonna die here! No way..."

Chapter 4:

"With a face as gloomy as that, I can't believe you're my sidekick. Be more proud of yourself, Shuichi! Everything you've done up till now is amazing!"
"Heh, you don't need to worry about that! I won't let anyone mess with my sidekick! I'm gonna protect both of you! It's a hero's job to protect his sidekicks!"
"Huh? Didn't I tell you before? I believe in people I wanna believe in. And if they betray me, it just means I made a bad call believing in them. Of course, you're one of the people I want to believe in, Maki Roll!"
"When you really think about it, the universe is impossibly vast."
"Heh, don't be so cold! "No road is long with good company," right?" (to Shuichi)
"Let your sweat wash away all your sadness, fear, worry, and hardships. Just start moving your body and your pain will become memories before you know it. Well, I don't have anything to worry about. Cuz, I mean...I'm Kaito Momota! Luminary of the Stars!"
"Stupid! Nobody decides what they talk about before they start!"
"Don't try to shoulder everything on your own. You gotta trust other people. Once you're able to share your burdens with your friends, then you'll be stronger."
"Now that that's settled, let's eat! If you don't eat well, you can't think well!"
"It's difficult to talk to people about your failures. I get it. But didn't I tell you? Being able to share your burdens with others... That's how you get stronger! Don't hold on to your past forever! You gotta confront it to move on! And I'm gonna help you with that!"
"Wh-When a man loses his curiosity, he ages! Curiosity is what moves a man!"
"But it's gonna be pretty hard to find something when we have no clue what we're looking for."
"Someone who isn't smart wouldn't want to save everyone... They'd only think of themselves."
"I never wanted her to die. I wanted us all to escape together."
"Shuichi, don't carry the burden all by yourself. You're my sidekick! Don't forget. We're gonna do it together!"
"That said, try to get through this on your own! Clear me of suspicion with your own power!"
"No, Shuichi. In order to find the truth, you can't be biased."
"Hey! If you keep saying messed up crap like that, I'm gonna kick your ass into orbit!"
"But Shuichi is my sidekick! In other words, his deductions are my deductions! And my deductions are his!"
"Don't say stupid crap like that! It's pointless if we all die!"
"I see... In that case, I'll believe in you and won't say anything else. But if you have any problems, let me know. I'll help you. I'm here for you, bro."
"Both of you are cowards. You never speak the truth or show your true face. Smiling, putting on a mask, never saying what you really think... That kind of cowardice is just like Monokuma!"
"Listen up, Kokichi! To hell with this "game of suspicion" crap! I will never be okay with it! I'm just gonna believe in everyone! Instead of suspecting my friends, I'm gonna find the truth by believing in them!"
"What are you saying? We can't just rely on Shuichi all the time. This Class Trial's for all of us! We're here to solve this together!"
"Hmph, you don't even realize your mistake? Are you losing your edge? Oh well! My sidekick mistakes are my mistakes! I'll make it right!"
"Tch... No matter what you say, I'm not gonna believe your lies... I'm gonna believe in everyone! That's how I'm gonna reach the truth!"
"Liars burn in hell, y'know!?" (to Kokichi)
"I don't want to survive if it means I have to stoop to your level."
Chapter 5:

"Geez, don't be stupid, guys. There's no way I'd die, y'know? Cuz I'm Kaito Momota! Luminary of the Stars!"
"The best way to deal with guys like him is to ignore them. So let's just leave him be."
"Well, just leave it to me. There's no need for you guys to worry. I'll figure it all out. I mean, I'm gonna get you guys out of here."
"Heh, you guys just don't get it. Geez, heroes are always misunderstood."
"Either way, I don't feel like weapons really suit women." (to Maki)
"I can't die like this... Like hell am I gonna...die here... I...I still...haven't gone...t-to space... Damn it..."
"The only way to change things now...is to fight. If you want to put an end to this killing game, then we gotta fight. If we don't stand up now, then when!?"
"Yeah. We challenged him a bunch of times, but it never worked out, right? That's because...we gave up. But this time we can't give up! Cuz this is our final chance!"
"Our goal is to escape with everyone, right? If there's a chance we can do it, then we should take it. We don't...have enough time..."
"Heh, there's no need to worry! Of course it's gonna be a little dangerous, but... We've got all these Ultimates here! If we all work together, everything will be all right! Our promise to work together to get out of here...and become friends..."
"Let's go! It's finally time to graduate from this academy of lies!"
"Even if the world has ended and humanity has gone extinct, I can't give up! It'd be a crappy story if the hero gave up so easily! All you guys are working hard, so I can't just sit back and relax! It's just...I'm happy you guys wanna save me, but stay safe, okay?"
"While I'm gone, you gotta support everyone. Especially Maki Roll... She can be reckless sometimes. You're an impressive detective, through and through. You might not only reach the truth, but something even beyond it. And don't forget...you're not alone! Don't try to do everything yourself. It's only gonna wear you out. When times are hard, you gotta rely on your friends."
"I believe in you. So I'm leaving the rest to you for now. You got it, Shuichi?"
"So all you gotta do is believe in your reasoning. That's what detectives do."
"Even if I messed stuff up during the trial, I knew Shuichi'd see the truth. Heh. Just what I'd expect from my sidekick."
"Behind this truth, there's gotta be a hint that leads to the real truth."
"You decided that you didn't deserve to have friends, didn't you? That was your enemy. But not anymore, huh? You're alright now! You fell for a guy like me! Now you can learn to like yourself!
"Hey, hey...don't cry. Can't you send me off with one last smile? You guys, too. I'm not gonna allow any tears. Send me off with a bang."
"But let me just say this to the true mastermind controlling Monokuma... You better get ready! My friends aren't gonna lose to you!"
"I'll leave the rest to you guys! End this ridiculous killing game! And Shuichi... Never forget, you're not alone. You have friends. Don't try to do everything by yourself, okay?"
"Don't forget! The impossible is possible! All you gotta do is make it so!"
"Haha...of course... My bad for making you cry like that."
"Alright then! Let's end this with a bang! A special punishment suited to the Luminary of the Stars!"
"Oh yeah? Well screw you! I'm not gonna die the way you want!"
Chapter 6 (Fake Memory):

"But y'know, it's a man's dream to leave Earth behind and travel across the stars!"
"No matter how many times we fight, we smile in the end... That's what true friendship is. It'd be cool if we could be like that! All 16 of us!"
As Pre-Killing Game Kaito:

"I'm not just gonna be in Danganronpa, I'm gonna kill everybody and win! Once I've got fame and fortune, I don't gotta worry about what's impossible."
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

In his promotional art Kaito is featured with a pipe which highly resembles Kiseru, a Japanese smoking pipe used for smoking kizami, a shredded tobacco product.
It's worth noting that the smoking age in Japan is 20 years old. Meaning that Kaito may be engaging in underage smoking.
If he does engage in underage smoking, it can be suspected that his chronic disease is lung cancer, as one of the symptoms is coughing up blood.
Although it was confirmed by Tsumugi in the final trial that his disease was implanted into him. However, it is unknown whether Team Danganronpa was the one who implanted the disease or it was natural disease that he had, since Tsumugi could be lying about it.
Kaito is the first character to die of a disease during a killing game.
Kaito, along with K1-B0 and Maki Harukawa, was one of the first new characters revealed for Danganronpa V3 in November 2015. However, their names and talents weren't revealed until ten months later in September 2016.
Kaito is shown wearing his right coat sleeve when opposing Shuichi in the Chapter 3 and 4 Scrum Debates. He is the only character whose features flip due to sprite mirroring this way.
In the cutscene where the characters change into their new uniforms, Kaito's goatee is missing in the PC version.
Kaito Momota localization error
In Chapter 5 of the English version, Kaito's arm is still seen during the supposed cut when Kokichi had used the video camera. This was not present in the original Japanese version.
In a prologue illustration with all the students, Kaito is missing his beard, similar to his beta designs.
In his Love Suite scene, it's shown that in his fantasy he is an airplane pilot who wishes to defeat his sworn rival before going to space, but he has developed romantic feelings for them.
Kaito's English voice actor Kyle Hebert also voices Danganronpa 2's Kazuichi Soda.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Kaito the 11th most popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Kaito was voted the 5th most popular student in the electronic poll, and 15th through post cards.

Kirumi Tojo was a normal talentless high school girl who participated in the 53rd Season of Danganronpa, a famous worldwide reality show made by Team Danganronpa.

She used to attend Milky Way High School (天ノ川高校). However, it is unclear if this memory of her is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it is genuine.

Fabricated Past
After she was accepted into the 53rd Killing Game, Kirumi's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

While working a part-time job as a maid, Kirumi was able to carry out any job and created a reputation for doing perfect work. She is popular among freshman and was even selected as a bodyguard for visiting heads of state. This was later revealed to be a mere rumor, as Kirumi explained that she was only employed as a maid.She also stated that she turned down the job to run a country.

Kirumi Tojo being summoned by the Prime Minister
Having performed many achievements and perfectly accomplishing every task given to her, and eventually gaining clients in both politics and finance, the government decided to request Kirumi's assistance. She worked as the shadow of the Prime Minister of Japan in rebuilding the country and improving the citizens' quality of life. Her strong motivation to support all citizens is what made her able to accomplish the government's request, to the point that Kirumi became de facto - Prime Minister herself. Nobody was aware that the Prime Minister's secretary was secretly running the country from behind the scenes.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Kirumi and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Kirumi was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participant however, Kirumi and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Kirumi chose to forget about her Ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Kirumi and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Kirumi and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, the true Mastermind, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, were actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair, and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush however, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78th was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

While Kirumi did remember basic details about the Ultimate Hunt in Chapter 2, she ultimately has no complete recollection of the event, as she was executed before she actually received a complete memory about The Gofer Project by the Flashback Lights in later chapters.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Kirumi was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Kirumi was confused about their current predicament but was able to keep a level head. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived and revealed themselves from within their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light. Kirumi and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. She also received the talent and title of Ultimate Maid. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Kirumi and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd Killing Game season known as the Killing School Semester. Students of Fabrication
Once Shuichi, the Ultimate Detective, and Kaede, the Ultimate Pianist decided to explore the academy together, they did not come across Kirumi until they went to check out the dormitory outside, where she politely introduced herself as the Ultimate Maid. Shuichi claims to have heard of Kirumi and explained what she was capable of to Kaede, who became surprised when she found out just how amazing Kirumi was to be able to fulfill "any" request. Kirumi corrected this however, and claimed that she would not just fulfill whatever request she was given to her. As an example, she told the duo that she once was given a request to annihilate a rival nation, but rejected it due to the absurdness of the request. Despite this however, Kaede stated that the mere fact she would get requested something like that shows how amazing she really is.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School SemesterKirumi would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement, where them and Monokuma, the Monokuma Kubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game, much to almost everyone's shock and horror. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.
Attempting the Death Road of 
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Kirumi read the rules on her Monopad and tried to maintain her composure as everyone else began to panic. Thanks to Kaede Akamatsu's motivational argument however, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united, leaving Kirumi impressed with her leadership skill. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Kirumi along with everyone else immediately followed Gonta's lead, with hope of finding a way out.

The Students become exhausted after failing to escape the academy via Despair Death RoadDescending the manhole, Kirumi and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Kirumi and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi Oma, the Ultimate Supreme Leader, revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Kirumi included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Kirumi suggested that they all go rest in the dorm rooms that had been assigned for them, stating that it's important to get as much rest as they can, to which everyone agreed to.
The First and Additional 
The very next morning, Monokuma announced the first motive: anyone who committed a murder will automatically graduate without a Class Trial being held. Kirumi became increasingly more irritated with Monokuma, asking him just what his objective was to want them to participate in a Killing Game so much. She was cut off by Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, who became extremely furious with Monokuma for just doing whatever he pleased and lunged at him. This caused the Monokuma Kubs to appear and attempt to punish Kaito with their Exisals, but they ended up punishing Monokuma instead, destroying him. Kirumi was certain that a spare would appear momentarily, but the Kubs denied this, saying that they were all one of a kind. Everyone was overjoyed that the Killing Game had seemingly ended, though Kirumi remained skeptical.

As it turns out, Kirumi was right to remain skeptical, as Monokuma appeared the very next morning, much to the student's shock. This time, the demented teddy bear announced the additional motive, that if a murder didn't occur two days from now by noon, every single person that was forced to participate in the Killing Game would die. This announcement completely broke the group's harmony, and everyone ended up splitting up, though she remained in the dining hall. When Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ??? asked everyone who remained about something called the "Ultimate Hint", Kirumi was curious and wanted to inquire further, but her questions went unanswered.

On The 
On the morning of the final day of the time limit, Kirumi, who was in the cafeteria, witnessed Rantaro and Ryoma Hoshi's, the Ultimate Tennis Pro's, quarrel. Kaede and Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, eventually came in order to try and calm the situation. Kirumi listened to Ryoma's proposal, that he was willing to be killed for the sake of the others because he was the only one among the group who has no reason to continue to live. Although she didn't know at the time, his statement would greatly affect Kirumi's decision in committing a murder in the next chapter. Ryoma was convinced by Rantaro to not go through with this idea, stating that he would end the Killing Game himself and to not do anything unnecessary.

The rest of the students running into the library
That same evening, as the time limit was nearing its end, Kirumi stayed in the dining hall with Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor, Tsumugi Shirogane, the Ultimate Cosplayer, and Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist. After the body discovery announcement was made, Kirumi was among the last group of students to enter the library and discover Rantaro's corpse, shocking the group greatly.

The First Class 
During the Class Trial, Kirumi pushed suspicion of killing Rantaro onto Gonta since he had locked himself in the AV room to watch bug movies to get excited enough to fight Monokuma. Kaede was quick to defend Gonta, stating that he could not have gone out into the hallway since the door from the AV room into the hallway only opened halfway. Despite this, Kirumi pressed further, apologizing to Gonta, but stating that she would do whatever she could for everyone's sake. She stated that he didn't need to open the AV room door all the way, just enough for him to fit his arm through it and use the folded up screen from the AV room as a pole to open the door to the library directly across the hall, and throw the shot put, which she claimed he could do with his immense strength presented when he lifted the manhole cover in the boiler room several days earlier. Kaede however, would deny this as well since the moved bookshelf in the library would have been in the way of the shot at that time. As such, it would have been impossible for Gonta to murder Rantaro. Kirumi apologized to Gonta for doubting him, but he replied that it wasn't a problem and that it was all done to find the culprit. Later, when the crime was being pinned on Shuichi Saihara, Kirumi was among the students to defend him.

When Shuichi revealed Kaede as Rantaro's killer, Kirumi was skeptical until Shuichi revealed the "contraption" Kaede had set up with the books on top of the book shelves. Kirumi felt sorry for Saihara, knowing how close the two were, and knew how hard it would be to reveal that to everyone. After Shuichi had made the whole crime clear, Kirumi stated that no matter what, she and everyone else could still believe in Kaede because even if she had committed a crime, the words Kaede had said to protect everyone were not lies.

Prior to Kaede's execution, she stated that she believed everyone would end the Killing Game and that they would all be great friends in the outside world. Kirumi accepted this request, seeming to strongly respect Kaede for her determination and for keeping the group together.

Exploring the Rest of the 
The morning of the next day, everyone would gather in the dining hall once again and have a normal, but forced conversation to try and make themselves not think about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. Kirumi decided that she would carry on Kaede's wish by taking care of everyone, being one who prepared breakfast, cooking any kind of cuisine that they'd prefer. Kokichi and Gonta enjoyed her cooking so much that they asked her to be their "mom", much to her annoyance. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that would become unlocked would be the remaining second floor of the school, which contained Kirumi's Research Lab. Upon discovering it, she seemed very pleased with it and the equipment found in it, saying that it would help ease her workload greatly. After all the items had been used around the school, Kirumi gathered with everyone in the gymnasium once again in order to solve the mystery of the flashlight Shuichi and Angie had discovered. Monokuma appeared and told everyone that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Kirumi included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

Danganronpa V3 - Everywhere Parasol PresentIn a bonus scene in Chapter 2, she also offered to help Tenko Chabashira, the Ultimate Aikido Master, prepare her "celebrity-like vacation" in the pool area. K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot, Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, Angie, and Shuichi would join them. Kirumi served everyone drinks and massaged Tenko, to which she expressed thanks for.
Selfless 
That same night while everyone was asleep, the Monokuma Kubs begin to pass out the second motive to everyone, which happened to a motive video that showed everyone's most important person. While the Monokuma Kubs distributed the motive videos at random, Kirumi received her own video by pure luck and watched it the next morning. Watching it caused her to remember that her "most important person" was every single citizen in Japan and that the Prime Minister tasked her with taking care of every single citizen. Realizing this, Kirumi decided that she had to get out of this school no matter what, even if it meant betraying everyone. She had made Ryoma her target because she thought of him as the weakest person in the school due to the fact that he had no reason to live. She began to plot his murder in the next coming days. That same morning, Kirumi gathered in the dining hall with everyone else to discuss the motive videos, keeping the fact that she received her own a secret. Ryoma suggested the group to exchange and return their motive videos to their respective owners, wanting to see who in the world could be important to him and in order to give him a reason to live. However, the majority of the group rejected that idea, because they were afraid that it would cause another killing to happen, irritating Ryoma. With this decided, many of the students seemed to become overly reliant on Kirumi, with Kokichi asking her to cook for him, Maki asking her to bring her her dinner later while she stood guard over her lab, Korekiyo trusting her to record his observations, and Miu requesting her to think of a new invention for her. Kirumi commented on how her workload has just increased and she didn't mind it at all, saying it was her duty as a maid to fulfill all of her friends' requests.

The next day but later on in the evening, Kirumi helped Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, and Angie set up the magic show in the gym by sewing the curtains. During this time, she also divided the tank with the piranha's in it with the glass pane that originally served as its lid. She then finished setting up the ropeway that connected the gym window to the window in Ryoma's lab via the pool. Although she only had five minutes to set all this up, it was still more than ample time. Unbeknownst to her however, Gonta was kidnapping various students into his lab to "get everyone to like bugs" (Kokichi had tricked him into doing this in order to get everyone to watch their motive videos). Kirumi is one of the few students Gonta did not kidnap, claiming that even he couldn't overcome her. Thankfully for her, this didn't interfere with her plan that much, but it did give more people alibi's for the actual time that Ryoma would be killed.

Kirumi would also run into Kokichi while he went to get everyone's motive videos for the Insect Meet and Great that same night and hold him for an entire hour asking and pestering him on what he was doing, probably more defensive than usual because she was preparing a murder. For the last thirty-minutes or so, she got roped into a game of tag with the Ultimate Supreme Leader, but eventually caught him and chastised him for his behavior before finally letting him go.

Kirumi's 
Kirumi Tojo about to knockout Ryoma Hoshi
Having finished setting everything up, Kirumi invited Ryoma to his own research lab in order to kill him. She revealed to him that she had watched her own motive video and discovered that she was the de facto prime minister of all of Japan and that she was responsible for the entire nation and its people. Upon hearing this and sensing Kirumi's intent to kill, Ryoma, who had watched his own motive video beforehand and seeing that he had no one important to him in the world, congratulated Kirumi for having something so strong to live for before telling her that he would pick up the tennis balls lying around his lab, turning his back to her. It was at this moment that Ryoma gave up his life to Kirumi, letting her bludgeon him in the back of the head with a wooden pole, knocking him unconscious. She then proceeded to handcuff him and drown him in the sink in his own lab's shower room, finally killing him, though not before scraping against the stone sink with his stainless steel handcuffs, unintentionally leaving behind some evidence of the struggle. His body would then be brought to the piranha tank in the gym by making use of the ropeway that Kirumi had set up beforehand. This would ensure that when Himiko's and Angie's magic shown began the next morning, that he would be eaten by the piranha's, as Kirumi had ample time to set this up in the gym beforehand.

Unfortunately for Kirumi, the inner tube she had used to transport herself and Ryoma's body to the gym's window frame, along with a scrap of fabric from her gloves, fell into the pool. Because it was nighttime, and it was against the rules to swim at nighttime, she had no choice but to leave them behind as it would have taken too long to retrieve them. Along with this, the marks on the window frames from the rope, Ryoma's handcuff's, and the scratches on them as well as the scratches on the sink in his own lab would also become key pieces of evidence that would find her guilty of the crime later on.

The very next morning the magic show began as planned, with Kirumi being one of the ones who attended. Everyone who showed up to watch grew increasingly worried as the timer continued to count down, but Himiko had not come out of the tank yet. Gonta, in a panic, rushed up on stage to rescue her before the piranha's would fall in, but did not see her in the tank. Once the timer hit zero, the piranha's were dumped into the tank, along with Ryoma's body, which Gonta thought he saw. Once the curtains were lifted, Ryoma's lifeless body was seen floating within the tank for only a couple seconds before the piranha's stripped all the flesh off of his bones, reducing him to nothing more than a skeleton. Kirumi, hoping her plan to have succeeded, pretended to investigate with everyone and to avoid drawing suspicion towards herself.

The Second Class 
Initially, it appeared that Kirumi had a solid alibi due to only being able to spend five minutes in the gym to prepare the magic show the night prior, and with everyone being unaware of where Ryoma's murder actually transpired. However, this fell apart completely when Maki Harukawa, who still went under the alias of Ultimate Child Caregiver, revealed that she had met with Ryoma at nighttime. As a result, everyone's alibi, including Kirumi's, fell apart thanks to this unseen revelation.

Kirumi identified as the BlackenedWith Maki's help, Shuichi was able to determine exactly how and where Ryoma was killed and as a result, was able to identify Kirumi as the prime suspect. Despite coming under fire from the Ultimate Detective, she was able to keep her cool and attempted to explain why she couldn't possibly have murdered Ryoma. All of her arguments gradually fell apart one by one, and she gradually lost her composure so much so that she attempted to manipulate everyone else into believing in her. Shuichi did not fall for her tricks however and still continued to pin her as the culprit. Kirumi grew increasingly more erratic, calling him a self-righteous brat for only caring about his own reasoning and not listening to others. Once again, Shuichi did not sway, and he presented the final piece of evidence that proved she was guilty; the black scrap of fabric from her gloves.
Kirumi's 
Prime Minister Kirumi Tojo
Much to everyone's shock and disappointment, Kirumi finally confessed to the crime, but is unsure of how to explain her motive for killing, afraid of telling them all what they had just done. Despite this, The Monokuma Kubs showed everyone her motive video, revealing to everyone that the Prime Minister of Japan requested that she use her skills as the Ultimate Maid to serve the country and its people, effectively making her the de facto Prime Minister. Everyone was utterly shocked and bewildered that they had just voted the Prime Minister guilty, but Kokichi commented that it's not that unusual that an Ultimate-level student could have that much power. Kirumi then explained what happened between her and Ryoma's meeting, about how he gave up his life to her, before the Monokuma Kubs showed everyone Ryoma's motive video, showing everyone how he had lost his will to live.

Kirumi Tojo's escape
Despite being found guilty however, Kirumi secretly hoped that someone would take the fall for her. As a result, she continued to manipulate everyone, but Kokichi saw through her act and called her out in front of everyone. Kirumi was irritated by this and called him a detestable cretin. Kaito did not blame her however and merely stated that she was trying to live in her own way. After Monokuma announced that she will be executed shortly, she sprinted away from the trial room, making a completely undignified exit. She was desperately trying to live for both her nation and her people, and everyone cheered her on, telling her to escape.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 2 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 2 Execution

However, all of their cheering was pointless. Instead of Monokuma dragging her into her execution, she ran straight into it, playing off of her desire to live and escape. Everyone was horrified by the way she was killed, but gradually came to the realization that the motive videos were far more dangerous than they had originally believed if they had the power to drive Kirumi to go that far.

Creation and 
Kirumi's Birthday, May 10th, coincides with the Maid Day in Japan.


Her given name kanji 斬美 kirumi, can be translated as "slicing/beheading beauty" while her last name kanji 東条 tōjō, means "provisions from the east". In being the Prime Minister of Japan, Kirumi shares her last name with the controversial Japanese Prime Minister, Hideki Tojo.

Alternate 
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Kirumi was first seen in the lodging area along with Tsumugi Shirogane and Ryoma Hoshi. She introduced herself as the Ultimate Maid to Kaede Akamatsu and Makoto Naegi. As Makoto explained that she is a very talented person as a maid and athlete. Kirumi humbly denied his statement, saying that all of them are overstatement.

Later, Kirumi cleaned all the students dormitories before the incident of Yasuhiro Hagakure's murder. She states that she doesn't see the culprit during that time and Tsumugi's testimony proves Kirumi's alibi. During the investigation, Kirumi guarded the crime scene along with Hajime Hinata.


Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Kirumi Tojo Toujou
Kirumi is a tall, thin young woman with pale, sandy blonde hair with a green tint and long bangs that obscure her left eye (but her left eye is occasionally drawn over it when she's expressing certain emotions). Her skin is fairly pale, and her eyes are a warm green. Her maid uniform consists of a long black apron dress in a pinafore style with a spiderweb motif, four white buttons along the middle of the torso of her dress, and the button of her previous high school's emblem on the left. A white dress is donned underneath her apron dress with a black collar, and a purple tie around her neck. The sleeves of her shirt have elegant frills at the end, which goes along with the bubble skirt appearance of her dress.

She wears a black headdress with black lace and frills attached to it, with four white pins on it, a common appearance that maids take up. She wears black, form-fitting gloves with silver rings attached to the back of her hands. Underneath her dress is a chic-combination of a petticoat with black lace and black tights, which she deems practical by not exposing her legs.She also wears grey, high-laced pinwheel shoes, the laces white and wrapped around her ankles and settling into a neat bow at her feet.

In the Prologue, Kirumi wears a light blue sailor school uniform with a long pleated skirt, a red tie, red stripes on the collar, black tights with black inside shoes on top, and a brown headband that has a small bow on the right side of her hair.


Kirumi is a refined, mature young lady who's described as "a professional who does a perfect job". She has a keen mind and she is talented in various ways, reportedly able to carry out any job, as well as capable of being independent and do things on her own. She is polite and formal, as well as quite serious, and very willing to use all of her power to cooperate with the other students. She is intelligent and level-headed. Her intelligence can be shown when she is speculating. Her speculations are provided with a fact and thus they are quite hard to refute—for example, when she accused Gonta Gokuhara as the culprit of Rantaro Amami's murder case everyone believed in her well-thought, descriptive accusation until Kaede Akamatsu objected it with a solid evidence. In Chapter 2, when the students discovered the half hallway of 2nd floor and the third floor, she felt that no one had set foot on the academy for a quite long time based on small details, and when she found out that the rooms of the deceased are locked by Monokuma, she thought that it was needed to be done in order to secure Rantaro's belongings, since Monokuma himself mentioned that he may have had a hunch about the truth behind the Killing Game.

As a maid, Kirumi's creed is "selfless devotion". Thus, she has a very strong sense of duty and a will to work for the sake of others even during the Killing Game. She voluntarily does house work such as cleaning and preparing meals for the students, even making sure each time that there's both Japanese and Western cuisine.Because of this, the other students seem to have strong trust in her, and she tends to wait outside the dormitory in case anyone has any requests for her. She is also shown to be very considerate and often asks the others if they are doing all right and gives them some advice. Her concern and kindness is often described as "motherlike", with Kokichi Oma even asking her to be "his mom". However, being a high school student, Kirumi completely denies such comparisons. Even in her last Free Time Event with Kaede, she stated that she dislikes being called the "mom" of the group, and in one of her Free Time Event with Shuichi, she said that being called a mom can be taken as an insult for some women, including her.

On the other hand, Kirumi lacks the concept of doing something for herself, and for her even to have a conversation is a request. She believes her own opinions hold no importance. Despite her sense of duty, she does have a limit to what she is willing to do, declining requests such as destroying a nation, giving sexual services, or unfairly removing someone who hasn't done anything wrong from a public area. She has stated that while she is a maid, she is not a slave. In her Love Suite Event, it's shown that she wishes to be treated as an equal by a kind master she loves, but she fears it will hinder him and she feels guilty for having such feelings. When she and her feelings are fully accepted by him, she finally lets her calm composure break and cries like a child in relief.

For the sake of the people who need her, Kirumi is willing to do some immoral acts like murder and manipulation if it is absolutely necessary in her mind. She is willing to bear the burden of being seen as evil for the sake of her nation and its people. She claims that she murdered Ryoma after he turned around, convinced that he already knew what was going to happen and had surrendered to his fate, but she possibly just used this way of thinking as a way to excuse her actions to herself and others. She has a great sense of determination, so much so that during her execution, she went out of her way to escape the entire situation rather than just succumbing to death, believing that she cannot die until she makes sure that her people are safe. It's also heavily implied that she voted for Shuichi during the voting time merely out of spite because he was the one who exposed her and ruined her plan, showing that she does possess a petty side despite trying to appear dignified. Similarly, when her composure begun to break under correct accusations, she turned much more intense and aggressive, and used insulting words towards her opponents. In the end, her final moments were described as completely undignified, though Kokichi gave her some respect for attempting to run away in order to live.


Ultimate 
Kirumi's talent as the Ultimate Maid is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Kirumi is a multi-talented maid in the past.

"	An Ultimate with incredible intellect and strength, working as a private maid... I heard that her work is so perfect, she can complete any request given to her. I've also heard that she's been hired as a bodyguard to several foreign dignitaries...

— Shuichi describing Kirumi's talent as the Ultimate Maid.
"
Danganronpa V3 Kirumi Tojo Toujou Introduction (Demo Version)
While working a part-time job as a maid, Kirumi is able to carry out any job, and has created a reputation for doing perfect work. She is also talented at various sports.she takes care of cooking and cleaning for the other students.She quickly adapted to the atmosphere of the Killing Game and stated that even though she can't perform surgeries, she has a medical experience and she can use the medical supplies in the warehouse.

In the bonus mode, Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Kirumi's maid skills are enough to impress both Byakuya Togami and Celestia Ludenberg, with Celestia's only issue being that she is a female. Given how critical they are, this is quite the feat, and Byakuya even says out loud that he is willing to listen to the opinion of such an admirable person like Kirumi even when he does not agree with them (after Kirumi mentioned that other people's feelings should not be ignored and she was unwilling to drive Toko Fukawa away from a public place when she had done nothing wrong).

In other 
Kirumi's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Maid
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「メイド」	Super High School Level Maid
Français Gouvernante Ultime	Ultimate Governess
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的女僕	Super High School Level Maid
中文 超高中级的女仆	Super High School Level Maid

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Kaede 
Kirumi strongly believed in Kaede and was impressed with how well she was able to keep the whole group together as well as how she was able to keep a killing from happening during Monokuma's time limit motive. After Kaede was revealed as Rantaro's killer, this strong sense of trust and belief did not waver. Kirumi stated that despite the fact that she committed a crime, the words Kaede said in order to protect everyone were very much real. When Kaede asked everyone to end the Killing Game and be good friends in the outside world, Kirumi said that she would do as she requested before Kaede was executed.

Unfortunately, Kirumi would end up betraying Kaede post-mortem after the second motive was presented, killing Ryoma Hoshi and being executed herself during the second Class Trial.

Shuichi 
When they first met, Shuichi realized who Kirumi really is and was surprised when she mentioned how popular she is because of her talent. Kirumi seems to care for Shuichi, willing to obey him the same way as the rest of their classmates. She even told Kaito to stop hurting Shuichi after the first trial ended. Kirumi was really disappointed when Shuichi pointed her out as the culprit in the second trial. Kirumi still hasn't accepted her fate and tried to vote Shuichi as the culprit. Shuichi was depressed and upset when he got to see another friend getting killed. He seems to be also one of those people who tried to tell Kirumi to run away from her execution.

In the bonus Love Suite scene, Shuichi has a role of being Kirumi's master, whom she has fallen in love with. At first she believes these feelings are inappropriate but Shuichi convinces her otherwise. It's shown in the fantasy that Kirumi still see Shuichi as the Ultimate Detective being her ideal partner.

Tenko 
Tenko treats Kirumi as a friend and seems to trust her as well because of her talent. Tenko felt relaxed when Kirumi gave Tenko a massage on her back and took quite care of her which Tenko felt pleased. At first, Tenko didn't believe at Shuichi at first when he suspected Kirumi as the killer but accepted it then. She seems to be one of those people who encouraged Kirumi to run away from her execution.

Ryoma 
After Kirumi had discovered through a Kubs Pad given to her in chapter 2 that she was given a small country to rule over by the Prime Minister of Japan, she made Ryoma her target in order to escape, believing him to be the weakest one among them all. When told to come to his own Research Lab by Kirumi, Ryoma did not hesitate to go along with her plans and willingly turned his back to her, fueling her killing intent. She hit him over the head, cuffed him, and drowned him. Ryoma seemed to strongly respect Kirumi for her will to live when he himself had none.

Kokichi 
After learning that she is a great cook, Kokichi wants Kirumi to be his "mom" and often asks her about it. She is not fond of the idea, though.

Kokichi is later chased around and scolded by Kirumi. When disappointed in her behavior, Kokichi responds with a "and she dares to call herself my mom" attitude.

When Kirumi is found out to be the culprit, Kokichi does not appear to feel bad for her. When the students question her about lying to them, Kokichi pulls one last mom joke by asking if she isn't his mom after all. After her execution, however, he appears to feel some genuine respect for her, stating that running away in order to live isn't a bad thing and even bawls loudly after witnessing her execution.

In the official art book, it is indicated that Kirumi regularly polished Kokichi's shoes.

Gonta Gokuhara 
After hearing Kokichi asking Kirumi to be his mom, Gonta wishes her to be his mom as well. This seems to be purely due to child-like innocence and him wishing to have a comforting female figure, possibly relating to the fact that Gonta spent several years away from his biological mother.

K1-B0
Kirumi is more considerate towards K1-B0 than most other students are, in fact, she appears to be the most respectful towards him. She considerately asks K1-B0 about his maintenance and in general appears to see him as an equal to humans.

When K1-B0 is asked to join Tenko, Himiko and Angie to relax and be pretense celebrities, Kirumi wishes to serve him as well and asks him if he would prefer to have oil. K1-B0 answers it won't be necessary, and the offer alone made him happy.

Rantaro Amami 
During the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Kirumi offers to fix Rantaro's clothes' split hem, reminding him of the maid his family had years ago. The maid was like another mother for Rantaro's siblings, but he then corrects that it's not like he sees Kirumi that way.

Free 

Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Kirumi Tojo, Hotel Kumasutra#Kirumi Tojo
Kirumi Pixel Head Icon
Kirumi Tojo
Loves:	043. Stainless Tray, 053. Sewing Kit, 054. Flame Thunder, 097. Sparkly Sheet, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	003. Ginger Tea, 004. Cleopatra's Pearl Cocktail, 006. Ketchup, 007. Sugar, 008. Olive Oil, 009. Astro Cake, 012. Greek Yogurt, 019. Crystal Bangle, 020. Striped Necktie, 025. Autumn-Colored Scarf, 028. Nail Brush, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 049. Hand Mirror, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 079. Three-Layered Lunch Box, 081. Jelly Balls, 086. Pillow of Admiration, 091. Space Egg, 094. Helping Yacchi, 095. Home Planet, 099. Cleansing Air Freshener, 110. Fully-Automated Shaved Ice Machine

DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"I am Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid. Please let me know if you require my service."
"For you to make a false statement when our lives are at risk... I am not amused."
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"I hold no opinions or desires of which to speak. As a maid, my only desire is to fulfill the desires of others. So please, think about what you desire for yourself, and what you desire from me. No matter the situation, no matter what happens, I am here to serve everyone."
Chapter 1:

"As I have said...my only desire is to fulfill the desires of others. Until we escape, I intend to serve everyone. If either of you have a request to make of me, please do not hesitate to ask."
"So we cannot lose this fight... Even on this uncharted path, we must find our way."
"Because I promised to do my best, I will fulfill that responsibility."
Chapter 2:

"A true maid must be able to adapt to any situation. Besides... I, too, intend to fulfill Kaede's request. So I will valiantly perform any task, trivial or otherwise."
"...I do not mind. To serve others is a maid's duty."
"Selfless devotion" is the principle by which I perform my responsibilities as a maid. I can cast aside my personal feelings for the sake of serving everyone."
"Please let me know if you have a request. Given our situation, I will not take monetary payment. I will do anything you ask."
"I will do my utmost to fulfill her request, for that is how a maid must conduct herself."
"There is no need to thank me. Your happiness is the reason I serve."
"I do not mind... Serving others is the true desire of any maid."
"I do this for everyone. It is my duty to unveil the truth, so I do not care if people suspect me."
"It is quite selfish to keep this information hidden because you were not in the mood."
"If there is still a small chance of you being the culprit, I cannot trust you entirely. Because everyone's lives are at stake."
"I cannot believe you would suspect me... If that is the case, then I will have to deny it. I will not let you make the wrong choice."
"If you do believe it is me, are you prepared to stand by that decision? I will refute your accusations with all my might..for everyone's sake."
"If it is for my sake...then it would be much easier to forfeit... But I cannot allow that! Because I must do this for everyone!"
"I have...a duty and a responsibility... I must serve everyone and protect them... So I refuse to surrender! They won't forgive me if I do!"
"I do not care what becomes of me, but I will not allow any of you to die. Because I made a promise to Kaede. She wished for all of us to escape together. I want to fulfill my duties as the Ultimate Maid. I wish to serve everyone. So, please believe me! You have to!"
"What truth!? All you care about is your own reasoning! You don't even listen to others! I can't bet everyone's lives on a deduction made by a self-righteous brat! You can't save anyone!!!"
"My pride as a maid demands that I fulfill every request that I receive. But, to end like this..."
"Perhaps the truth will be easier to believe if you witness it with your own eyes."
"I am Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, and the most important people to me... ...are the citizens of this country!"
"I was called upon to lift the country out a dire situation. I swore to serve and help all its citizens. As a maid, it is a great honor to serve the nation itself."
"I needed to know that the most important people in my life were safe. Because I am duty and honorbound to protect every citizen of this nation! That is why...I needed to escape."
"I would bear the burden of being seen as evil for the sake of my nation and its people. Because *that* is what it means to serve with selfless devotion. That's why I needed to survive. Sacrificing you all meant saving the lives of men, women, children, and elderly... I...wanted to live."
"That's right... I must survive... Because...I carry the weight of an entire nation on my shoulders. I would not have killed Ryoma if I was so easily deterred. This request will not be fulfilled until I have brought joy to every citizen of this nation... So no matter what, I cannot die! That is why I killed Ryoma! Even now, I refuse to give up!"
"I intend to live... I must survive...no matter what it takes... If I must debase myself, so be it! I would drink filth and eat carrion to survive! I will do anything—ANYTHING!—to survive!"
"I have to escape! I won't die here! I will live! I refuse to die in a hellhole like this! For my nation! For my people! I WILL NOT DIIIIIIIIIIIE!!!!"
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Kirumi is the tallest female character in Danganronpa V3.
Kirumi is one of the few people that tried to escape their execution, the other being Chiaki Nanami.
In her Love Suite scene, Kirumi's fantasy portrays her as a servant who has fallen in love with her master, due to serving him for many years and seeing his courage and kindness. However, she believes her feelings are a bad influence on him and she wishes to leave the mansion. Her master strictly denies this and accepts her feelings, which makes her cry in gratitude.
Kirumi's English voice actress, Kira Buckland, also voices Hiyoko Saionji in the Danganronpa series.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Kirumi the 10th most popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Kirumi was voted the 10th most popular student in the electronic poll, and 2nd through post cards.

Kokichi Oma was a normal talentless high school boy who participated in the 53rd Season of Danganronpa, a famous worldwide reality show made by Team Danganronpa.

During his high school days, Kokichi attended Imperial Capital's Imperial High School (帝都大帝都高校). However, it is unclear if this memory of him was a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it was genuine.

Fabricated Past
After he successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Kokichi's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

Kokichi's past is very unclear due to his constant lying and the fact that he strictly refuses to reveal anything personal about himself. In fact, the only thing known about his life for sure is his love of video games and that he's been playing them his whole life. However, he has also claimed that nobody would care if he was gone, and it's been implied that he has no parents or family.

It's known that he is the leader of D.I.C.E., a small group of young pranksters, who are the most important people and like a family to him. They have traveled around the world and commit "laughable crimes" for fun, which could indicate that they could be a group of orphans with no families nor parents to hold them back. Kokichi is also good at stealing, which might be due to his past, and it has been pointed out that many of his skills have a resemblance to a petty thief. Furthermore, his organization could be a reference to the animated television series D.I.C.E. (DNA Integrated Cybernetic Enterprises), which is about an organization run by children, specifically orphans.

During the killing game, Kokichi lies that he is the supreme leader of a large, evil secret society. Obviously, there is no evidence of it and the Ultimate Detective, Shuichi Saihara, does not know any organization matching with the one Kokichi mentioned.During his Free Time Event with Shuichi, Kokichi claims he became the supreme leader by killing his parents and taking their place. He then claims he lied, and that the one he killed was his older brother. He claims he lied again and that the real reason is a secret. Considering his tendency to have some truth among his lies, this could imply something about his past.

There is a scene in the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan which hints about his family situation, as Kokichi and Kaito won't go home for New Year's, Kaito due to his unconventional family situation of living with his grandparents. Kaito asks Kokichi why he isn't at home with his parents (and aren't his parents embarrassed of him being such a brat at his age). Kokichi only tells him that he shouldn't ask such personal questions when talking to the supreme leader.

However, it is unclear how much, if any of Kokichi's past before participating in the 53rd Killing Game was real, and which was fabricated by Team Danganronpa.

The Gofer Project
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Kokichi and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Kokichi was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participant however, Kokichi and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Kokichi chose to forget about his ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Kokichi and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced everyone to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, the true Mastermind, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, were actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair, and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush however, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

While Kokichi did remember about the Ultimate Hunt in Chapter 2, his and everyone else's funeral in Chapter 3, the meteorite impacts and the state of the outside world in Chapter 4 thanks to the Flashback Light's, he ultimately has no complete recollection of the event, as he was not present when the complete memory about The Gofer Project was triggered by the Flashback Light in Chapter 5.

Killing School Semester
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Introduction
Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Kokichi was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Kokichi was confused about their current predicament, asking the others if they wanted for him to check on what was happening outside, but was warned by Korekiyo Shinguji that those monsters, the Exisals could still be nearby. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived and revealed themselves from within their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light. Kokichi and the other talentless fifteen students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. He also received the talent and title of Ultimate Supreme Leader. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Kokichi and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as a totally different person, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester. Danganronpa V3 CG - Pre-Game Students in their talent outfits (Vita) (1)
Kokichi was later found in one of the classrooms on the first floor by Kaede and Shuichi, the Ultimate Detective. Kokichi was extremely intrigued by K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot, pestering him and chasing him like a child simply because he was a robot. K1-B0 was very agitated by this, trying to get away from him and politely asking Kokichi to "leave me alone". Kokichi introduced himself to Kaede and Shuichi as the Ultimate Supreme Leader, stating that he's the leader of an evil secret organization surpassing over ten-thousand, though neither of them really believed his claims.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester Kokichi would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement. Once the Monokuma Kubs and Monokuma, the Monokuma Kubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, also arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game. While almost everyone else was shocked or horrified by this, Kokichi didn't seem to mind the prospect all that much and found the idea "not boring. In reality however, he loathed the idea of the killing game, especially one that was being put on for other people's pleasure and secretly vowed to end it by any means necessary. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.
Attempting the Death Road of Despair
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Kokichi read the rules on his Monopad. A majority of the group wasn't sure what to do after reading these rules and began to panic and argue. Thanks to Kaede's motivational speech however, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Kokichi along with everyone else immediately followed the Ultimate Entomologist's lead, with hope of finding a way out.

Danganronpa V3 CG - The students despairing at failing the Death Road of Despair (2) Descending the manhole, Kokichi and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Kokichi and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through the Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Kokichi himself included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Kokichi headed to his assigned dorm room to get some rest.
The First and Additional Motive
The next day, as soon as Kaede walked into the dining hall, Kokichi greeted her, having created a "kind lie" in order to make the group consolidate once again. Afterwards, Monokuma came to the cafeteria and announced the first motive, anyone who committed the first killing will graduate without holding a trial, effectively calling it a "First Blood Perk". Everyone was worried about what this would mean, aside from Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, who became increasingly outraged with Monokuma for doing whatever he wanted and lunged at him. This caused the Monokuma Kubs to show up, showing no hesitation to punish Kaito with the Exisals for attempting violence against their father, effectively breaking the rules. The red Exisal charged at him, but accidentally ended up crushing Monokuma instead, supposedly destroying him. The Monokuma Kubs were incredibly saddened at the sudden demise of their father, stating that he had no spare and that he was one of a kind. Upon learning this, Kokichi and everyone else's mood improved greatly, thinking the killing game to be over. Kaede however, was still skeptical, but this skepticism was met with accusation of her wanting to continue the killing game from some of the participants, Kokichi included.

The next morning, Kokichi was with everyone else in the dining hall once again, happy that the Killing Game had supposedly ended. However, it didn't take long for Monokuma to show up once again, much to the dismay of the students, but to the joy of the Monokuma Kubs. Monokuma goes on to reveal the additional motive, that if a murder did not occur within two days by noon, everyone who was forced to participate would be killed. This motive caused a majority of the group seemed too depressed to stay united and left the dining hall.

The First Investigation and Trial
Danganronpa V3 CG - Hidden Camera Photo (3) Kokichi overall never did anything significant during the time limit, not seeming to care about their current situation. On the night of the time limit, Kokichi remained alone in his room. As soon as the body discovery announcement played however, he immediately rushed into the library, being among the last group of students to discover Rantaro Amami's, the Ultimate ???'s, corpse. Kokichi shed tears seeing that he was dead, calling him his "dearest" Rantaro. With that, the first investigation began.
Though everyone agreed to work in pairs, Kokichi chose not to follow this guideline and went off on his own. When questioned by Kaede and Shuichi about why he would intentionally want to come off as suspicious, he stated it was because he was an "evil" supreme leader and that he was supposed to be suspicious. When asked what he was doing during Rantaro's murder, Kokichi jokingly replied that he was in the library smashing his head in, much to Kaede's irritation. Overall, Kokichi didn't help with the investigation at all but instead was more aiming to confuse the duo with his lies.

During the class trial, he boasted about being an evil supreme leader and as such, used to situations like this. He would go on to pin the crime on Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor, in the early stages of the trial since she constructed the cameras in the library, but Kaede and Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist, were quick to defend her and said that she was in the cafeteria at that time with Korekiyo, Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, and Tsumugi Shirogane, the Ultimate Cosplayer. Miu acknowledged Kaede and said that she did good, but harshly belittled Kokichi for being a liar, to which he responded with by shedding fake tears.

Later on in the trial, he would be quick to jump onto Shuichi as the culprit after he claimed that he had forgotten to mention the camera intervals to Kaede. She was quick to defend him, but Kokichi would continue to push constantly and ended up being one of the main students who believed that Shuichi had committed the crime. He was very quick to see through Kaede's lie, being a liar himself, but left it up to everyone else to see if they would choose to believe in her. He eventually backed down along with the other students who were against Shuichi after Kaede and the students who defended Shuichi proved his innocence.

After Shuichi revealed Kaede as the true killer, Kokichi was intrigued and gladly went along in proving her guilt. He was one of the few students to show no sadness upon her demise and simply told her she fell straight for Monokuma's trap before she was executed. Before she died however, he did tell her that she was not a boring person, seeming to compliment her.

Kokichi's Secret Message
Sometime between end of the first trial, and the morning of the next day, Kokichi would begin to devise of a plan to get everyone to think that he was the mastermind of this killing game, willing to be seen as evil for the sake of ending this madness. To begin this plan, he would leave a subtle message in the courtyard "Horse A", which he would later fill in with more letters as the killing game continued.

The morning of the next day, Kokichi along with everyone else would gather in the dining hall once again and have a normal, but forced conversation to try and make themselves not think about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. Gonta was the first to find Kokichi's message while searching for bugs. He would inform everyone else in the dining hall about this supposed hidden message, but it was written off as insignificant graffiti. As Kirumi prepared breakfast for everyone, Kokichi and Gonta both asked her to be their mom. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

Exploring the Rest of the Academy
One of the areas that would become unlocked would be the remaining second floor of the school, which led to the third floor. Up on the third floor was Maki Harukawa's, the Ultimate Child Caregiver's, Research Lab. However, Maki refused to let anyone in, much to Shuichi's confusion. Kokichi found this suspicious and while he couldn't investigate right now, would make mental note of this and theorize that Maki was hiding her true identity from the rest of the group.

Angie eventually told Kokichi and everyone else to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight that she and Shuichi had discovered earlier. After everyone had gathered, Monokuma appeared and told the participants that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Kokichi included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run

Momota losing to Hoshi In a bonus scene in Chapter 2, Kokichi, Miu, Shuichi, Korekiyo Shinguji, The Ultimate Anthropologist, Ryoma Hoshi, the Ultimate Tennis Pro, gathered in the casino in hopes of playing a secret game with the medal that Shuichi had received from the Monomono Machine. However, Monokuma shows up and denies this, never stating such a thing in the first place and that the medal Shuichi had was just some knickknack he made for the Monokuma Kubs. Afterwards Kaito showed up as well, and everyone got roped into a gambling competition. Kokichi was incredibly impressed with Ryoma's knack for gambling, beating Kaito every time.
The Motive Videos
During that same night, the Monokuma Kubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. The next morning, Kokichi joined everyone in the dining hall in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. Despite Ryoma suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. Kokichi went along with whatever everyone decided, but secretly had ulterior motives and as a result, lied to Gonta about a promise they had made and met alone.

Gonta's Insect Meet and Greet
Kokichi, wanting to make everyone watch each others motive videos in order to make the killing game more interesting, thought up of a plan. He lied to Gonta that everyone in the academy hated bugs. Hearing this, Gonta cried and declared that he would get everyone to like bugs in an "Insect Meet and Greet". As a result, two days after the motive videos were distributed, Gonta began to kidnap various students into his lab, completely unaware of the Ultimate Supreme Leader's true intentions.

Ouma waking up Saihara Gonta would succeed in detaining Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist, K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot, Tsumugi, and Tenko, much to Kokichi's glee. Shuichi is also detained by the Ultimate Entomologist and brought to his lab, apologizing later for accidentally knocking him unconscious before continuing his kidnapping spree. Kokichi looked down at him happily as he woke up in Gonta's lab, telling everyone about his plan in order to get everyone to watch their motive videos, much to the detained student's irritation and annoyance. After Gonta kidnapped both Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, and Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, Kokichi left in order to get everyone else's motive videos.
Kokichi would go to break into everyone's rooms using his lock picking capabilities and steal their motive videos. Before he could however, Kokichi was stopped by Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, who seemed to almost defensively interrogate the Ultimate Supreme Leader, asking him just what he was doing. Kokichi would be kept by Kirumi for a whole hour, being chastised by her for the first thirty minutes, and forcing her into a game of tag for the last half hour. Kirumi angrily criticized his behavior before finally letting him go. Kokichi went to everyone's dorm rooms in order to retrieve their motive videos. While he was out, he also happened to see a woman running around the courtyard in her underwear, which later turned to be Miu who had taken off her clothes in order keep Gonta away from her. At some point around this time, Kokichi also told Ryoma who had his motive video.

After Kokichi returned with everyone's motive videos, Gonta told him about the people he was unable to detain while everyone else was even more irritated that Kokichi took so long to return while they had been swarmed by insects. Finally having enough with this absurdity, K1-B0 used his recording function in order to convince Gonta that Kokichi had tricked him so that this absurdity would end. Gonta became outraged by this, and would order all the insects to swarm on him instead as punishment. Everyone else who had been detained was thankfully able to take back their motive videos and leave, heading to their dorm rooms to finally get some rest.

The Second Investigation and Class Trial
The very next day, Kokichi was one of the few who did not attend Himiko's magic show, where the next victim, Ryoma, would be found dead. After the body discovery announcement played, Kokichi came to the gym along with Kaito and Miu, seeming distressed that Ryoma was the one who was killed after everyone had promised to end the killing game together, shouting at everyone to apologize to Ryoma. Nobody seemed to take his words seriously however due to his deceptive nature.

During the investigation itself, Kokichi headed to the Ultimate Magician's Research Lab in order to find out how Himiko had performed her trick. While there, he filled in about what he was doing during that hour, about how he saw a half-naked woman running around the courtyard, and Kirumi keeping him for an hour.

Ouma showing Hoshi's MonoPad During the second trial, after everyone had supposedly pinned down the culprit as either Kaito or Maki, Kokichi proposed that they all have those two argue against each other and convince the remaining participants on who is the culprit since if only two suspects remained, one of them had to know for certain that the other was the culprit. Kokichi presented everyone with the first topic, bringing out Ryoma's motive video, and said that one of those two had it. Shuichi was able to deduce that Maki had Ryoma's video due to the fact that he himself had Kaito's. Kokichi proudly told Kaito and Maki to tear each other’s arguments apart in an argument that "isn't boring". Kaito however, was angered by this, saying that he wasn't the culprit, but that Maki wasn't the culprit either, much to both Maki's and Kokichi's bewilderment. Kokichi was baffled with the Ultimate Astronaut being so willing to believe in people based on nothing more than a "hunch", especially considering that everyone's lives were on the line. After going back and forth for some time, Maki turned the entire debate around and said that she had met with Ryoma at nighttime, rendering everyone's alibi's as mute. Kokichi laughed Maki's claim off, claiming she was lying out of desperation. After debating on the matter, and thanks to Shuichi's lie, they were able to prove Maki's claim as accurate. Due to this, Kokichi backed down once again.
As the class trial continued on, Shuichi was able to deduce Kirumi as the real culprit of Ryoma's murder. As Kirumi became increasingly erratic upon seeing the incriminating evidence, Kokichi slyly hypothesized that she had seen her own motive video. In the end, after Kirumi was convicted, his claim would be proven right as she received her own motive video from the start by pure luck. Once everyone found out that Kirumi was the de facto prime minister of Japan, Kokichi didn't see it as that shocking for an Ultimate level talent to be that powerful. He also saw through Kirumi's charade when she had hoped someone would take the fall for her or get away while everyone else revolted, much to her dismay and irritation. In the end, Kokichi watched as the Ultimate Maid was executed by Monokuma.

Maki Exposed
Ouma reveals Harukawa's true talent After everyone leaves the trial room, Kokichi states that there was an even worse liar than himself hiding among the group, much to everyone's confusion. He then called Maki out as that liar, essentially claiming that she had been lying to everyone about her true identity this entire time. Maki was aggravated by this and threatened Kokichi, but despite holding the Ultimate Supreme Leader by his neck, he still called out her true talent as the Ultimate Assassin. Maki would supposedly try to kill Kokichi, but was stopped by everyone else being there.
Investigating the New Areas
The next morning, Kokichi gathered everyone in the "Ultimate Child Caregiver's Research Lab" only to discover various weapons all throughout the lab, proving that Maki was in fact the Ultimate Assassin, not a child caregiver. As everyone discussed what to do about this issue, Kaito reassured everyone, saying that he'd take care of Maki. Kokichi seemed to agree, telling everyone to leave Maki to him. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy.

One of the places that became unlocked was the eerie fourth floor. Kokichi was interested in both of the Research Labs that became unlocked up there, the Ultimate Anthropologist's, and the Ultimate Artist's Research Lab. While Shuichi and Korekiyo were talking in the latter's lab, Kokichi suddenly barged in, took the gold leaf katana out of it's display case and examined it, revealing that it was a real blade. This irritated Korekiyo, who angrily threatened that he would tear out the Ultimate Supreme Leader's nerves if he didn't put the katana back. Kokichi sadly complied, telling him that he didn't need to make such scary threats. Later, he would meet up with Shuichi in front of Angie's lab, wondering why it was locked. As Kokichi was about to break in using his lockpicking skills, Angie suddenly unlocked it from the inside and invited them in. Kokichi and Shuichi both investigated the lab, with the former being curious about the key and why exactly this lab needed a lock. The Monokuma Kubs and Angie both claimed that it's because Angie can only work in private and as such, needs a key for her lab. Kokichi became perplexed when Monodam ate the key, claiming that it was for everyone to "get along", but Angie said that it was fine since she only ever needed to lock her lab from inside. Kokichi theorized that this school was specifically made for all of its participants if Angie's lab had all her favorite sculpting and art supplies.

After Shuichi also discovered the computer room, Kokichi would join him and discover the Flashback Light he had found. He took it from him and told him and the others to meet in the dining hall in order to inspect it. Upon using it, everyone remembered what seemed to be their own funeral, much to the student's confusion. Kaito reassured everyone that there's no way the funeral could be real considering they were all still here and alive. His small speech seemed to work, as everyone perked back up, enjoyed a small meal, then headed back to their dorms.

Angie's Student Council
Kokichi gathered with everyone in the gymnasium the very next morning at the Monokuma Kubs request. The participants were presented with the third motive, the Necronomicon, and were told that they would be able to bring back someone who had died already as a transfer student. This motive baffled the students, Kokichi included.

However, Angie seemed to embrace the motive, saying the "corpses" so far may have just been very accurate imitations to make the real people seem dead. Some of the students argued that there's no way that's possible, but Gonta said that more letters were added to the rock in the courtyard, deducing that perhaps the four people who had died are actually alive and wrote that message. Angie praised Gonta and, like Himiko before him, pulled him into a hug. She instilled hers and Atua's authority into him by reassuring him that he's not alone and that Atua is like a gentle grandmother that always keeps him safe, effectively playing off of Gonta's desire for a motherly figure.

It is then revealed that Angie had actually met up with a number of students the night prior and put together a Student Council in order to end the killing game. Kokichi however, wasn't buying into Angie's nonsense, calling everyone who was brainwashed by her "idiots". He ended up being one of the students that ended up opposing Angie's Student Council.

The Summoning Ritual
Two days after the motive is presented, Shuichi, Maki, and Tenko Chabashira, the Ultimate Aikido Master, try to reason with Angie one last time after failing the prior night. Himiko attempted to get Angie's attention, but the door into her lab was locked, worrying the trio. Kokichi overheard and offered to use his lockpicking skills in order to get into the lab, only to find the Ultimate Artist dead in the middle of her four wax effigies of the deceased that hung upside down from the ceiling. The body discovery announcement played and everyone else rushed to Angie's Research Lab. While the Student Council members mourned the loss of their president, Korekiyo proposed they perform a seance in order to commune with Angie's spirit. Kokichi, K1-B0, Himiko, and Tenko all decided to help, completely unaware that the Ultimate Anthropologist had ulterior motives and that he was the one who killed Angie the night prior.

Spirit Summoning Ritual Preparation (5) While everyone else investigated, the group prepared for the seance in the vacant middle room on the same floor. Kokichi went to Korekiyo's lab to get what was needed, but ran into Shuichi and Maki, who were investigating due to the fact that the katana used in Angie's murder came from the Ultimate Anthropologist's Research Lab. Shuichi split from Maki in order to investigate the seance, following Kokichi. After Shuichi showed up, everyone decided that K1-BO may not be be fit for the seance due to his inhuman nature, much the Ultimate Robot's dismay. As a result, Shuichi ended up taking K1-B0's place, and him and Kokichi were in charge of lighting and extinguishing the candles. All four of them listened to Korekiyo's explanation regarding the seance. Kokichi was the one who carried the cage along with Shuichi, remarking on its weight, before placing it down atop the crouching Tenko. After extinguishing the candles, all four of them sang the Caged Child Song, noticing an extremely loud noise in the middle of the darkened seance. After the caged child did not answer to Korekiyo's question, Kokichi and Shuichi reignited the candles and the whole group helped in removing the cage and cloth from Tenko's position, only to find her dead in a pool of her own blood. Everyone was baffled as to how she was killed as the body discovery announcement played for a second time. Kokichi Oma faking his death (2)
As everybody investigated the seance room in order to find the cause of Tenko's death, Kokichi noticed the loose floorboard and got a theory that he needed to confirm. He went to one of the other two vacant rooms to investigate the floorboards, only to end up stepping through one with no crosspiece supporting it, causing him to trip and fall on his head. As it turns out, all three of the empty rooms were trapped, which would be a crucial fact that would assist the group in finding the killer. Kokichi however, lost a significant amount of blood due to his misstep. Instead of tending to his wound however, he decides to pull a prank by faking his own death, lying face down in the middle of the fourth floor hallway. Shuichi and Maki both discover this, obviously horrified at the thought of a third victim, but Kokichi quickly springs back up, happily declaring "It's a lie!". Both of them were obviously irritated but also wondered what Kokichi's intentions were. He tells them both that he was actually bleeding and that he had stepped through one of the floorboards in the other rooms. This intrigued Shuichi, but he had no chance to investigate himself as the announcement telling everyone to go to the trial room played. The light-headed Kokichi went to the trial grounds with everyone else.

The Third Class Trial
In the early stages of the trial, Kokichi is suspected of being one of the ones who could have killed Angie due to being able to pick locks. Kokichi happily accepted the claim, even going so far as to claim that he himself killed Angie, shocking and confusing the group. Shuichi however, was able to see through his lies easily, asking him how he could have prepared the locked-room mystery. After talking about it a bit more, Kokichi confessed that he lied about being the culprit, claiming that he wanted to draw out the real culprit with his lie.

When Himiko asks why Tenko had to die, Kokichi states that her death was meaningless and that Angie's death was the only one that they had to worry about. This outraged Himiko greatly, asking him how he could be so inconsiderate towards one of their own friends, but Kokichi didn't waver. Instead, he called Himiko out on only caring about Tenko after she had died and never once caring about her prior. Himiko acknowledged his statement, but said that that was the reason she was so upset now. Due to her declaration, everyone was moved and decided to discuss Tenko's murder instead, wanting to know why she died as well. Kokichi didn't find this necessary at all, but still went along with everyone's discussion.

Later on during the trial, when everyone was quick to suspect Himiko of being the culprit due to the fact that the seance trick was set up in the middle room, Kokichi's testimony turned out to be a valuable clue in finding her innocent. Him stepping through the floorboards proved that every single room was trapped, not just the middle room. As a result, and with all the other evidence, Shuichi was able to pin the crime on Korekiyo, but he dismissed it as irrelevant due to them having to find Angie's killer, not Tenko's. When Shuichi was able to pin both crimes on him however, Kokichi remarked on how obvious and boring of an answer that was, stating that it was pointless to kill two people because it left more clues for everyone to find. As a result, Korekiyo was found out as the culprit.

Upon listening to Korekiyo's motive for killing, Kokichi pointed out that he was likely already insane before he became trapped in the school, wanting to send one-hundred women that he deemed as "fitting friends" to his deceased sister. In the end, Kokichi simply watched as Korekiyo was executed by Monokuma. Afterwards, seeing that Himiko was still trying to hold in her emotions from Angie and Tenko's demise, Kokichi called her out, belittling her for still holding back. Eventually, Himiko broke down in tears at the loss of her two friends and was carried back to her dorm room by Gonta. Kokichi remarked on how tired she looked after spending so long crying.

Remembering the "Truth"
The very next morning following the third class trial, Kokichi gathered with everyone in the dining hall yet again. The group became disheartened to see how many people they had lost up until now. Monokuma then showed up along with his Kubs to hand out the next set of random items to unlock more areas with, along with a card key that according to Monophanie would be the next motive. As everyone contemplated what to do with the card key, Kokichi stole it and ran off, with Kaito in hot pursuit. Kokichi was easily able to evade him however and discovered that the card key was actually for the door at the end of the Death Road of Despair. While everyone else investigated the newly opened areas, Kokichi was able to get through the tunnel alone and discovered the supposed secret of the outside world, of the killing game itself, that they were the last remaining survivors of humanity and that the Earth had bee destroyed long ago by meteorites. With this knowledge, Kokichi began to form the next stage of his plan. No matter what, he would end the Killing Game, even if he had to get everyone to fall into despair to do it. To further his own ends, Kokichi kept this truth hidden, but continued plotting.

The Gofer Project Meteorites
Kokichi later regathered with everyone else in the dining hall to investigate yet another Flashback Light. Everyone wondered just where Kokichi had ran off to, but lied by saying he couldn't find where the card key went to. Once everyone used the Flashback Light on themselves, they remembered the meteorites that impacted the Earth and that it was described as being very similar to the meteor impact that wiped out the dinosaurs millions of years ago. They also remembered basic details of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project saying that mankind deserved damnation, and the Gofer Project itself. Of course however, Kokichi was already aware of all this thanks to already knowing about the secret of the outside world.

Kokichi's Plan
Monokuma however, was dissapointed that the motive went to waste, as Kokichi had no plans to kill anybody. Knowing this, Kokichi met with Monokuma in secret in the game room at nighttime and proposed that they reuse the motive in order to make the Killing Game "more interesting". He was also already aware of Miu's plan to use the virtual world simulator in order to kill him. As a result, he had already planned his own "murder plan" in order to make himself appear as evil to the rest of the group. Monokuma happily went along with this plan, placing a Flashback Light that revealed the secret of the outside world within the Killing Game simulator.

Kaito slaps Kokichi
The morning after everyone remembered the meteorites, Gonta, wanting to be of some use to everyone, proposed that he fight the Exisals regardless of how reckless it may be. Kokichi said that that was meaningless and that he shouldn't do that, mainly because the killing game wouldn't end even if he did. Kokichi then called everyone out for being whack jobs if they wanted something this "fun" to end. He confidently declared that he would win this game, even if he had to become the blackened, while calling everyone else out as cowards. This drew the ire of Kaito, who finally had enough of Kokichi's antics and punched him in the face. Kaito asked Kokichi what had gotten into him, stating that the way he was acting now was a whole different level of weird. Kokichi was rendered mute by this act, and everyone ate breakfast in awkward silence.

Sometime before Miu died, Kokichi would also meet with Miu in her lab and requested her to make the electrobombs and electrohammers used in Chapter 5 by the remaining students to cross the Death Road of Despair as well a universal remote control that could hack into any electronic object. Kokichi was also suspicious about the "tiny bugs" that Gonta kept seeing around the school and as such, also asked Miu to make something called a "bugvac" in order to suck up the tiny bugs. It was here that Kokichi saw just how much Miu feared betrayal and the killing game itself, having no intention of defying Monokuma, but pleaded that if Kokichi and the others did find a way out to not leave her behind.

Neo World Program
Miu Iruma being Ironic 2 The next night, Miu gathered everyone in the computer room on the fourth floor of the academy, lying to them all about a way to escape the killing game. Kokichi told her to drop to her knees and beg if they wanted them to listen to her, to which she did. She then explained key points about the program and what she did to modify it, making sure to keep all relevant details about her murder plan a secret. After Monokuma showed up, claiming that there was a "secret of the outside world" within the virtual world program, everyone decided that it would be better to investigate after all. The group preparing to go into the Neo World Program Everyone sits down in their chairs, connects their headset to the computer, making sure to listen to Miu's instructions, and logs in. Miu however, placed a bottle of poison on Kokichi's seat, wanting to make it look like he died in the real world as part of her murder plan completely unaware that the tables were about to be turned on her.
The Killing Game Busters
Gonta Gokuhara and Kokichi Oma being accomplice
Once inside the virtual world, Kokichi immediately hit K1-B0, confirming that everyone's sense were still connected and that their real bodies could die of shock if their avatars were killed. Later, after everyone discussed the map of the virtual world and mansion, Kokichi led Gonta to the Flashback Light the rest of the group was searching for in the forest behind the mansion, already knowing it's hiding spot. Once Kokichi showed it to him, Gonta immediately thought that they should tell everyone, but was stopped by Kokichi. The Ultimate Supreme Leader asked him if it was really okay for him to believe a liar like himself and said that he should check the Flashback Light for himself if he really wanted to save everyone. Gonta was once again tricked by Kokichi and used the Flashback Light, causing him to see the supposed truth of the outside world. In his state of despair, Kokichi convinces Gonta that being dead without knowing anything is the best option for everyone and offers him a plan to kill Miu now and then kill everyone else with the Class Trial. Gonta completely follows Kokichi's instructions, believing that regardless of whether they were inside or outside the academy, hell was inescapable.

After spotting Miu go through the wall that only objects can pass through, Gonta tells Kokichi and the maniacal liar begins to understand the aspects of the program that Miu kept hidden from them and devises the full murder plan, informing Gonta of what to do. Once Miu and Kokichi met up on the roof, Gonta waited in hiding before ambushing her from behind with a roll of toilet paper, strangling her avatar to death, causing her real body to die from shock. While in normal circumstances the toilet paper would easily tear, objects were unbreakable in the virtual world and as a result, the toilet paper was easily able to substitute for a rope. Gonta cries out "I'm sorry" multiple times, but Kokichi reassured him that it was fine before instructing him on what to do next. Gonta placed Miu's dead avatar on a lattice from the storage room and slid her off the roof, causing her to go through the wall that only objects could pass through, and crash into the side of the chapel which was only possible because the world actually looped. The loud noise created by the sudden impact alerted everyone else in the virtual world. Kokichi then instructed Gonta to scale down the roof using the toilet paper and put it back in the bathroom. While Gonta was able to hang the toilet paper from the binoculars to get off the roof, he was unable to dispose of it properly due to Shuichi and Tsumugi's untimely arrival. This made Gonta panic and so he tossed the toilet paper somewhere nearby. Kokichi then rejoined the rest of the group, pretending to have no idea what had transpired. As everyone logged back out of the virtual world, Kokichi stopped Shuichi for a second to tell him how interesting him how interesting he is and that he should work for him, though this only irritated the Ultimate Detective and so he logged out. Kokichi speaks to himself, stating that despite he was rejected, he wouldn't give up that easily.

Kokichi wakes up with everyone else to find Miu dead in her own chair, having died from shock in the virtual world. Kokichi once again, pretends to not know anything and go along with everyone else. Gonta however, accidentally mixed up the "memory" and "consciousness" cords before he entered, causing him to retain no memory of ever being in the virtual world at all. Despite Kokichi being the one who created the plan, he is not considered the culprit of the murder as he did not directly kill anyone. Kokichi never realized Gonta's memory loss during the investigation, just viewing him as being as dumb as always. As soon as Kaito rushed in, he was also shocked to find Miu's dead body, but Kokichi asked him why he had logged out before everyone else did, quick to suspect him despite knowing for certain that he didn't commit the crime, likely to fool everyone. With that, the invesitgation began once again.

The Fourth Class Trial
During the class trial itself, Kokichi remained silent about everything he knew, even going so far as to lie about meeting with Miu on the roof. During the trial itself, Kokichi was noted as acting and talking just like Monokuma by Gonta and Kaito. He didn't seem to be particularly offended by this claim and still guided everyone along during the trial as if he knew everything, even going so far as to admit that he worked together with Monokuma temporarily.

Eventually however, after it was revealed that Kokichi had lied about his meeting with Miu on the roof, he decided that he would take away any potential mystery solving regarding the case and bluntly stated that Gonta was Miu's killer. This shocked and angered the other participants greatly, claiming that there's no way someone like Gonta would commit murder let alone listen to Kokichi after what happened with the Insect Meet and Greet. However, both Kokichi and Shuichi, much to the latter's dismay, made it very apparent that Gonta was able to commit this crime. Gonta pleaded to Shuchi that he wasn't the culprit, while Kaito became increasingly outraged at the Ultimate Detective for believing in Kokichi over Gonta. As a result, a rift in the group formed. Gonta, feeling responsible, apologized thinking that it was his fault that everyone was so upset. Kokichi angrily told Gonta to argue back, but he was unable to due to having no memory of the crime he had committed. After realizing that Gonta had been saying things such as "I don't know", and "I don't understand" ever since leaving the virtual world, Shuichi was able to deduce that Gonta had suffered from an avatar error caused by him mixing up the cords, causing him to forget his crime, much to the group's dismay. Finally, even though Gonta himself acknowledged that he wasn't smart enough to understand what was going on, he decided to believe in everyone, thinking that they were probably right. Despite this, Gonta sadly cried out why he would do such a horrible thing, still not even understanding his own motivations.

As a result, in order for everyone to understand Gonta's motivations, Monokuma programs a Gonta Alter-Ego containing Gonta's virtual memories to explain on the real Gonta's behalf. The real Gonta could seemingly understand where AI Gonta was coming from when he said that he wanted to be useful to everyone, which led to him being tricked by Kokichi. When the AI Gonta was asked about what "truth" he remembered, he said that he couldn't tell them due to not wanting them all to end up like he did, to remember a despair so horrible that you'd feel as if you wanted to die. With that, the real Gonta seemingly came to terms with his fate, not showing any signs of fear. Kokichi begs to be executed along with Gonta, but he refuses the proposal. Gonta told the group to forgive his partner for what he's done and get along well with him. Gonta apologizes to everybody for being unable to protect them until the very end. Kokichi watched as Gonta was dragged to his execution, seeming to have gone mute.

Danganronpa V3 Kokichi Oma laughing cutscene
Everyone was saddened at the loss of a kindhearted soul such as Gonta, nobody blaming him for his actions. The remaining participants demanded that Kokichi explain the secret of the outside world if Gonta actually meant anything to him, but he refused. Kokichi claimed that he was faking his own tears and mocked Gonta post-mortem, calling him an idiot and saying that he died a meaningless death along with Miu. He claimed that he himself inflicted pain and suffering on the group for no other reason than the thrill of it.

Kokichi Oma counterattacks Kaito after the third trial Kaito, outraged by the Ultimate Supreme Leader's inconsiderate and outright evil attitude, moved to hit him once again. However, due to his illness, Kokichi was easily able to dodge him and punch him back, knocking him to the ground. Kokichi was able to tell that Kaito was slower than usual and pondered on whether or not he was hiding something from everyone. Maki became increasingly worried upon seeing this and threatened to kill Kokichi herself. However, she was stopped by Kaito and everyone rushed to his side as Kokichi continued to monologue. Kokichi wondered why everyone was worried about a guy like Kaito, but Shuichi quickly stabbed back, saying that he should look at himself compared to Kaito. Shuichi states that Kokichi was the pathetic one as no one wanted to be around him, and that that would never change. Kokichi seemingly shrugged this claim off and left the trial grounds, having become bored yet again. As Kokichi left the trial grounds, he eerily remarked to himself that it was almost time to end this Killing Game once and for all, finally finishing the message in the courtyard, "This world is mine, Kokichi Oma".
Kokichi Oma smiling to himself as he prepares a plan
To End the Killing Game
Kokichi Oma with the weapons to defeat Monokuma
Following the fourth trial, Kokichi would disappear for a couple days to continue with his own plan. Later on, when Kaito gathered everyone in the gym, proposing a plan to fight Monokuma, Kokichi suddenly appeared as well and brought with him Miu's inventions, offering them to his classmates. He told everyone that he wanted to end the killing game as well, but Maki was tired of his deceptive nature and threatened to strangle him once again, asking him just what he was scheming. Maki was eventually stopped by the others, dropping Kokichi on the floor. He told everyone that he wouldn't interfere with them any longer before leaving the gym, along with Miu's memento for them to use, the electrohammers.

Kokichi controlling the Exisals
After the other survivors used Miu's inventions to cross the Death Road of Despair, they came across a large metal hatch which they opened up and discovered the apparent state of the outside world, ruined and destroyed by meteorites. Everyone became unable to breath and lost consciousness not long after. An unprecedented time afterwards, the hatch closes and everyone woke up. Kokichi appeared and congratulated everyone for discovering the truth of the outside world. He revealed everything to them, that the world was in ruins, and that they were secretly on a giant spaceship that acted as an ark for the last sixteen survivors of humanity, or rather last "seven" survivors of humanity. Afterwards, Kokichi proclaimed himself as the leader of the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project and the one who let Monokuma into the ark, effectively declaring himself as the Mastermind of the Killing School Semester. Everyone was skeptical at first until Kokichi used Miu's universal remote control to make the Exisals do his bidding to further convince the remaining survivors that he was in fact the Mastermind. Kaito once again became outraged with Kokichi and attempted to punch him yet again. However, Kokichi easily incapacitated the Ultimate Astronaut by using the Exisals. Maki attempted to attack him as well, but was stopped by Shuichi. Kokichi told Shuichi that he made a wise decision before requesting the detective to give him back the Exisal Hangar's alarm remote back, a request that he reluctantly complied to for Kaito's own safety. Kokichi declared that everyone was free to do whatever they pleased before leaving them all in a state of despair and taking Kaito hostage in the Exisal Hangar, confident that he had broken everyone's spirits with his lies so much that they wouldn't want to do the Killing Game anymore.

However, the True Mastermind, after seeing that everyone was too apathetic now to continue the killing game, prepared a Flashback Light that gave everybody memories of Hope's Peak Academy, that they were the symbols of hope, and that Kokichi was a Remnant of Despair. Upon receiving this memory, everyone's determination solidified, resolving to stop Kokichi, save Kaito, and end the Killing Game once and for all.

Harukawa warehouse ouma momota
The same day that everyone remembered this, Kaito, who was still being held captive inside the Exisal Hangar, asked Himiko bring him a disassembled crossbow through the small bathroom window. He proceeded to assemble the crossbow and threatened Kokichi with it, not wishing to kill him, but at the very least overpower him. Kaito shot him in the arm and they got into a quarrel. It was at this time that Maki rode an Exisal into the hangar, intent on ending the killing game, saving Kaito, and killing Kokichi due to believing that he was a Remnant of Despair from the false memory triggered by the Flashback Light. Everyone aside from Kokichi and Kaito were unknowingly being controlled by the Mastermind in order to continue the Killing Game.

Kokichi made a desperate grab for the remote control that Miu made to control any electronic device, but he was promptly shot in the back by Maki with a poison tipped arrow from her crossbow and brought to the ground. Despite the position he was in, Kokichi belittled Maki, asking her why a killing game that should have already ended is still continuing. He had no idea what she meant by Remnant of Despair, and asked her whether or not she really enjoys killing that much. Maki would not hear any of it and proceeded to shoot the killing blow, only to have it intercepted by Kaito, stunning Kokichi and shocking Maki.

Momota protecting Ouma
Maki panicked, rushed out of the hangar, and made her way to Shuichi's Research Lab to retrieve the antidote for the poison, but Kokichi closed the shutter to the hangar to ensure she could not come back in. Later, Maki came back with the antidote and passed it to Kaito through the small bathroom window, but Kokichi immediately stole it and supposedly drank it, much to Kaito's anger, and Maki's horror due to there only being one antidote. Kokichi boasted that another class trial would start now where Kaito would be the victim and Maki would be the blackened, much to her shock. Kaito reassured her that she would be fine and told her to leave.

After Maki fled the scene, Kokichi used the electric bomb to disable the Nanokumas, security alarm, and safety mechanism of the press machine inside of the hangar. He then gave the antidote to Kaito, revealing that he only pretended to drink it. He forced Kaito to comply with his plan where he would kill him in order to create an unknown victim case so that Monokuma would not be able to create proper judgement during the class trial. Kaito initially refused, but when Kokichi made the point that Maki would be the blackened if he didn't, he had no choice but to go along with the plan in order save Maki, and stop the killing game as well. It is revealed here that Kokichi has actually been trying to stop the killing game from the very beginning. Pretending to be the mastermind and revealing the supposed truth about the outside world to the others was all done by him to discourage another killing from happening. He cries in anger as he explains that he hates the killing game, its creators as well as its viewers for toying with their lives and enjoying it, and states his dislike for games you are forced to play. Kaito couldn't tell if he was lying or not, but acknowledged that he was really pulling at his strings in order to get him to work with him, and even developed some respect for Kokichi.

Kokichi's Fate
Both Kokichi and Kaito acted quickly to ensure that the former would not die from poison that was circulating throughout his body. They both made their way to the press machine and began to go through with the plan. Kaito took off his jacket, placed it underneath the press machine, then lied down on it while Kokichi controlled the press machine and filmed the "time of death" with a simple video camera. Kokichi stopped the press machine and the video camera while only Kaito's hand and sleeve was visible, then the two promptly swapped places. Kaito, now controlling both the press machine and camera, turned them both on once again, crushing Kokichi to an unrecognizable, bloody mess, with Kaito's jacket sleeve hanging out of the press as a false clue as to who the victim was.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 5 Body Discovery
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 5 Body Discovery

Kaito would proceed to retrieve the video camera, snap the cords to the press machine to ensure it would not move again, and hid inside the red Exisal until the class trial began, where he imitated the Ultimate Supreme Leader himself thanks to the Exisal's voice changing function, as well as a book that Kokichi prepared for this exact moment that detailed his exact way of speaking and specific behaviors unique to him, essentially carrying on his will and plan until Shuichi is able to deduce that the person inside of the Exisal is not Kokichi, but Kaito.

After the Class Trial ended, Shuichi concluded that Kokichi was someone they could not understand all the way until the very end, and that he might be the physical embodiment of "lie" itself.

Kokichi Oma's true self (1)
Uncovering the Truth
Ouma and DICE
Kokichi's Research Lab and dorm room would open up to everyone in this chapter. The dorm is where Shuichi discovers Kokichi's motive video. Upon watching the video, it is revealed that Kokichi's supposed "evil secret society" was nothing more than a group of ten pranksters known as D.I.C.E. who committed laughable crimes and had a strict motto to never murder. He also somehow knew the combination lock for the vault in Rantaro's lab, "Horse A", and "Twins B", which let Shuichi and Himiko discover the truth about Rantaro. Both Kokichi's motivation video, and Rantaro's video to himself, would later be used as evidence during the final class trial to disprove Kokichi being a Remnant of Despair, as well as to prove the survivors memories contradict with the actual facts about Hope's Peak Academy, revealing that everything that had been implanted into them by the Flashback Light were all lies.

Creation and Development
Kokichi's characterization was focused on duality. The keyword on his initial design was simply "shota", so he was made to look like a cute and personable boy. However, the point was to give him a creepy feeling as well, so his early designs included things like black clothing, skeleton patterns and heterochromatic eyes. In the end, he was given an uniform as white as possible that would be contrasted by the colors of his hair and scarf.

The character was made to be a liar to add to the story's main theme of truth and lies. As he is the character who personifies the game's central themes, Kazutaka Kodaka put more thought into him than any other character. He was made to resemble the double-agent role, in Mafia terms. Because of this, making him a trickster who stirs up the trials was considered indispensable. Considering this perspective, Kodaka has stated that Kokichi would feel more in place as an Ultimate Liar than a Supreme Leader.

Kokichi's "craziest" sprites were originally Rui Komatsuzaki's idea. Kodaka describes them as "physically impossible" and "otherworldly" instead of overdramatic. According to him, their creepiness expresses Kokichi's true nature to some extent. Kodaka was unsure whether or not to include them as they are a little overblown and maybe too much, but ultimately decided to keep them.

Kodaka has also mentioned more than once how Danganronpa has never had a character who simply enjoys the trials before, even if it was just a lie, which is why they wanted to make him the pretense mastermind battling against the real one. He likes the character quite a lot, but states that Kokichi is not the kind of guy he would like to meet in real life.

Name
Kinghorsemask
Kokichi's "king horse" mask.

His given name kokichi (小吉) can mean "small luck", or can be a fortune telling reading for slightly good luck. His last name, ōma (王馬) means "king horse", which could be a reference to his Ultimate talent. Furthermore, his unique laugh resembles a horse's sound both in the Japanese and English versions of the game, and he even has a horse head mask with a crown inside his room. Similar horse head masks are worn by people all over the world for humorous effect and are a symbol of Anonymous on the Japanese web.

According to Kodaka, he was given the names "king horse" and "small luck" to reflect the duality of his character, with him having a grandiose, big-sounding and mastermindish family name but a very small-sounding first name.

While the characters "総統" may also be used to translate as "President", and still do in Japanese for President of Taiwan (中華民国総統) and in Chinese language, nowadays the kanji in Japanese is associated with "dictators". Ironically, the Japanese kanji for Presidents (of USA, for example), "大統領", means "junta leader" in Chinese language.

Alternate Fates
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Kokichi is first seen inside the storage room chasing and harassing K1-B0. He innocently asks K1-B0 to be his friend, seemingly unaware that his actions make the Ultimate Robot feel uncomfortable. After that, he introduces himself to Kaede and Makoto Naegi, claiming that he is the leader of a secret evil organization with over 10,000 members. However, he says that it might be a lie as he states that he is a liar. Throughout the conversation, he says things to offend K1-B0, such as asking whether he has a penis or not.

Appearance
Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Kokichi Ouma (2)
Kokichi is a young man with an innocent look and a rather refined face. He has a short stature, a thin build, and very pale skin. He has purple eyes and moderately long, wavy blackish purple hair. In the official art book, it is stated that he does not seem to care about his hair and the hair style is a result of him playing with it—however, he does sometimes make use of the shadows his bangs form to make himself look evil.

He wears a white suit with multiple straps wrapped around his arms, and two straps hanging loose around his legs. Apparently, his pants are made to look like a piece of punk fashion with bondage pelts, but they are actually just fake belts sewed to thicker part of the thighs. His shirt is ripped at the hem and the collar part of it is completely gone, and big parts of the uniform are fixed with metal clips. He has multi-colored buttons running down the middle of his shirt, with a few usually hidden under his scarf, and he has military badges on his right. His scarf has black and white spaces alternating exactly like a chessboard. He also wears two-colored black and purple slip flats, and as seen in the character design gallery, he appears to wear a white belt.

In his promotional art, he is shown with a dark flowing cloak and a leather peaked hat with a gold badge on top of it, giving him a more malicious look.

In the prologue, he wears the uniform of his original high school. He has the classical tsume-eri uniform on properly. His personally customized uniform has a beauty from that of a university annex high school. Like with his other attire, the bottom of his trousers are short.

As a big contrast to his other clothing, Kokichi's "trendy" underwear has much brighter and vibrant colors with red and yellow stripes. Apparently, he wishes to hide his playful heart and true fashion sense in a place no one can see.

In the Japanese version, Kokichi's voice is usually slightly childish fitting his appearance, but it occasionally turns much deeper and mature, usually when he is either angry, foreboding or flirty. He similarly occasionally uses deeper voice in the English version, but it's less notable as his usual voice isn't as childish as the original.

Personality
Kokichi describes himself as an evil supreme leader, and often claims that this title is the reason behind many of his questionable actions as if he is expected to fulfill his role. He is an elusive and manipulative person who unabashedly tells lies and says whatever he's thinking. He is also strangely straightforward about his supposed evil nature, openly claiming to be a leader of a large secret society, admitting to being a liar, and saying he has done nothing but bad things. Among other things, his organization supposedly has covert agents in every country, control over all the mafias in the world, torture as a form of punishment, and Kokichi's defeated opponents apparently will get sent to Siberia. However, none of his claims have been confirmed, and the other students think he's either lying or delusional.

According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Kokichi is a trickster character in the truest sense of the word.He is very mischievous, and he enjoys pranks and teasing others, sometimes in quite mean-spirited ways. Because of his behavior, he is viewed as an antagonistic figure among the group, but this doesn't seem to stop him from being able to manipulate the class trials anyway. He is often portrayed smiling slyly and laughing mischievously, though he may look very harmless and innocent at first glance. He often behaves calmly and coolly in a way to torture the others, at times turning very ominous to the point of having very unsettling, downright demonic looking expressions. Sometimes, he can speak very sweetly, even flirty and act like he loves the other person very much, while during other moments he can speak in a very crude and nasty manner and use insults which vary from quite harmless to very mean-spirited. He can also try to use his looks to his advantage and sheds crocodile tears by crying loudly like a scared and threatened child, telling the others they're being really mean, but this is always overly dramatic and obviously fake. There are also moments when he appears scared, tearfully mentioning that he is afraid of the killing game and doesn't want to die, but it's unclear if he is being genuine or just trying to earn sympathy with his looks. There are also moments when he suddenly falls asleep and snores comically, angering the others.

Fitting his appearance, Kokichi often acts notably child-like, with at least some of it appearing genuine while part of it also could be just his attempt to use his looks to his advantage. He is sometimes shown to have child-like excitement and innocence, as he gets very excited about "cool" new things like the Exisals and the morphing Trial Grounds, marvels the school in a child-like excitement and shouts "yodelay-hee-hoooooo" while the students are inside the echoing tunnel. He often acts playful and seemingly appears more ignorant than malicious during the first time he meets K1-B0. He is also notably interested in games and often has a strong desire to be a winner and play them seriously while also having fun along with them, with one of his principles being "to have fun" with everything he does. He enjoys hard difficulty, claiming that he always plays on Hard Mode and never uses the "Run" command, and he is stated to have nerves of steel in order to accomplish this. He came up an original theory that enjoying the extreme thrill of cornering yourself with all exits sealed is the definition of fun. However, he also enjoys more casual things like getting chased around as if it's a game, at least by people like Kaede, Kirumi and Shuichi who wouldn't beat him up after catching him, and loves hide and seek. Later in the game, it's shown that he has drawn multiple childish drawings with silly fantasy concepts such as ray guns with rainbow-colored beams, and he apparently owns a toy helicopter and a supercar. His favorite presents include a pop electro-water gun, most likely to use for pranks, and a hammock to relax and feel like a child again. In his Free Time Events, Kokichi makes multiple references to shows such as Yu-Gi-Oh! and Tobaku Mokushiroku Kaiji, and it's indicated that he likes the Shōnen genre. His supreme leader claims can also be rather childish at times, like destroying cities with giant robot dinosaurs, and his Research Lab has a stereotypical dramatic throne of an evil ruler. In his Love Suite fantasy sequence, it's shown that he likes to imagine himself as a legendary phantom thief who has a romantic rivalry with a detective, and it's indicated that while he loves the chase (even more so than committing the actual crime) he is also very excited about being caught and punished. In the official art book, it's stated that he is quite nonchalant about his hair, but he does possess a true sense of fashion he keeps hidden and displays through his colorful underwear, supposedly not finding it fitting with his supreme leader image.Notably, he also keeps referring to Kirumi as his "mom", and he is a big admirer of Santa Claus.He himself has openly admitted that as a teenager he is of course immature, and he claims that people should never lose their childish side.

Above all, Kokichi considers lying a big part of himself and appears either unwilling or unable to stop it. He frequently claims something only to shortly afterwards reveal that he was just lying, making it very hard to trust his word. Sometimes the lies are very obvious, but at other times it can be near impossible to tell whether or not he is telling the truth. He also tends to say whatever riles up the other students at the moment and tries to mess up conversations without any apparent reason. Indeed, neither because of impulsivity or the need to confuse others, he lies mostly because he feels he's free to do whatever he wants whenever he wants.He has also frequently pointed out that even if he told the truth, the others wouldn't believe a liar like him, indicating that he uses his constant lying to mask his own true feelings and intentions. Furthermore, being a liar himself, he always seems to notice when and why other people are lying. Ironically, he appears annoyed if other people are lying, either to others or themselves, and he claims that he hates liars. He also dislikes it when people claim they hate lying yet they lie themselves. He sometimes does not point out other people's lies and may even go along with them simply for the fun of it, but he seems to enjoy revealing other students' more serious dishonest ulterior motives with near malicious glee, such as when he exposed Maki as the Ultimate Assassin and called Kirumi out on her attempt to guilt another student into taking her place for the execution. Notably, whenever his face and tone goes blank, it's heavily implied that he has a rare moment of being completely genuine and honest, and he has an occasional habit to unintentionally speak out loud what he is genuinely thinking and sometimes even does it intentionally by openly explaining it to the other students.

Besides lying, Kokichi is shown to be very intelligent in general, with he himself claiming that his head is always filled with complicated thoughts. He is capable of creating complex plans in a short amount of time—a notable case being the time he wrote a script for Kaito during the class trial, which was written thoroughly about possible reactions and possible routes of how the trial will play out. He is also very perceptive, possibly due to being a major liar in a game that's main theme is lies, as he often appears to have deeper understanding of the situations and can predict things to the point of resembling breaking of the fourth wall. He quickly figured out Kaede's major flaw, foreshadowed her death and explained to her that the definition of common sense varies depending on person. On top of this he correctly predicted the exact way Kaito would die and even foreshadows Tenko Chabashira's death minutes before it happened. Notably, he understands that in order to truly win the killing game you must end it, not necessarily survive it. During his free time events, he even gives this advice to Shuichi, telling him that games can be won by not playing them. He also does lots of investigation alone without other people noticing, analyzes the other students, writes their fates and his impression of them on his whiteboard, and hoards lots of evidence from the past cases into his room. Supposedly because of his intelligence, he strongly dislikes boredom (though not as badly as Junko Enoshima and Izuru Kamukura). He tends to complain about situations he finds boring and even during some bad situations he states that at least they're not boring. If he likes a person or finds them interesting, he tends to state that they are not boring, which is a big and rare compliment coming from him. Furthermore, his last words even include a prominent line "At least I... wasn't boring, right?", showing that the matter appears very important to him. In general, he also seems to have an interest in "useful" people, and wishes to have such people around him. It's implied that, contrasting his intelligence, his weakness might be his physical strength. He dislikes heavy physical work and sports, and complains whenever he has to participate in such activities, and he himself admits multiple times that he is weak physically. He also appears fearful whenever others threaten to hurt him, often running away quickly or relying on Gonta for protection. During Chapter 2, he hides in the casino from Kaito, and gets startled by Shuichi's appearance as he mistakes him for Kaito for a second. However, it should also be noted that he was seen as incredibly agile by Maki when he punched Kaito at the end of Chapter 4, and he further claims that he lied about not being good at fighting, so it is unclear just how capable he really is when it comes to a fight. He claims that as an evil supreme leader, he doesn't like violence and would rather sneak around.

While Kokichi claims that his arguments are simply based on logic, he appears to have some sort of trust issues. It has been pointed out by other characters such as K1-B0 and Kaito that Kokichi does not like to talk about himself nor be open about his true feelings. After Kaede's death, he himself even pointed out that you'll feel happy and cheerful in no time if you just hit the reset button on your feelings, indicating that he is heavily suppressing his true emotions. He appears to have little trust in anyone or anything, refusing to tell anything about himself besides his questionable supreme leader claims, and generally questioning the truthfulness of different situations. He frequently reminds the other students that the game is about suspecting others and that you cannot fully trust other people especially in such situation, causing him to clash with Kaito's opposite way of thinking. Kaito even once called him naive, telling him that everyone has a secret to keep, and he shouldn't get so paranoid over someone's true thoughts. However, despite his trust issues, Kokichi does appear to see Shuichi as potentially trustworthy and wants to become his partner later in the game, and also puts some trust in Gonta. Kokichi also hates being lied to and betrayed by the few people he considers at least a bit trustworthy. While he was usually simply amused with Shuichi's lying in earlier trials and didn't really point them out to others, in the fourth trial he is furious and even vengeful when Shuichi lies back to him. He gets angry at Shuichi for giving a false alibi for him and retaliates by "taking the fun out of solving the mystery for him" by exposing Gonta as the culprit. He is also absolutely furious with Gonta when he fails to argue back and thus is ruining their plan, making Kokichi completely lose his composure in anger, though he also appears genuinely touched and shocked when Gonta is willing to forgive him after everything he has done. Furthermore, in the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Kokichi tells Gonta that they won't see each other anymore after graduating due to them being a gentleman and an evil supreme leader. Kokichi claims he is so sad he barely eats and cries himself to sleep at night, though he soon says it's just a lie. Interestingly, when Gonta is genuinely saddened because he won't see Kokichi anymore, Kokichi reacts with slight anger and believes Gonta is trying to trick him back, showing that he believes other people can't genuinely care about him, not even someone as kind as Gonta. In his Harmonius Heart Event, he even considers stopping lying for a moment in order to get closer with Shuichi, and if Shuichi agrees with this, Kokichi appears annoyed and says it's arrogant to expect other people to change such vital parts of themselves just for other people. In general, he appears to be somewhat against cooperation and strong inspirational speeches during the killing game, because it makes you suspicious and a threat in the eyes of the mastermind. However, it's been shown that he does cooperate in his own way, which can be easily mistaken for troublemaking. There are also quite a few moments when Kokichi appears to give genuine advice and warns the other students, though the others of course never take it seriously.

During Chapter 4, in the Neo World Program created by Miu, Kokichi persuades Gonta to murder Miu because he cannot do it himself due to Miu's programming. After learning the horrifying truth of the outside world, Kokichi and Gonta both agree that mercy killing the others while they're not aware of the horrible situation would be the best option. Even though he did not receive the memories of his avatar, Gonta is still willing to forgive Kokichi and tells the others not to blame him during the trial. This seems to genuinely affect Kokichi a lot, causing him to cry and listen to Gonta's last wish, and he even asks to be executed with Gonta. After such a good-hearted person like Gonta died because of him, Kokichi appears to begin to lose his sanity due to the guilt and the burden of the overall knowledge he possesses. In creepy casual manner, he tells the other students that he won't tell the truth of the outside world to "stupid heads" and claims he had just been fake crying. He begins to act exaggeratedly "evil", claiming he enjoys the killing game and the suffering of others from the bottom of his heart, making the others think he is pure evil and very likely even the mastermind. However, he does appear genuinely affected when Shuichi tells him that he's the kind of person who will always be alone.

Later in Chapter 5, Kokichi gives his life as a part of his plan to defeat the mastermind. During his last moments, he appears to genuinely cry bitterly as he confesses that he was just lying to others and himself in order to survive and be able to go on, and his evil and extreme behavior was heavily implied to be part of a plan to outwit the mastermind. He appears disgusted as he explains how much he hates the creator and the viewers of the killing game, who enjoy toying around with people's lives. He says he wants to ruin the killing game even if it costs him his life, thus making its viewers taste "true despair" and honor the memory of those who died. Later, it is revealed that his organization is actually just a small group of pranksters who commit mild crimes for laughs and they are indeed strongly against killing, implying that Kokichi was honest during his last moments. This was also implied by his very serious and genuinely frustrated looking crying expressions, which are very different from his usual, obvious fake tears, and the fact that K1-B0 believed he was honest (and he is multiple times shown to be right due to his inner voice). Moreover, in Chapter 1, Kokichi is also seen visibly concerned after hearing the first body discovery announcement. During his Free Time Events, while talking about his usual supreme leader claims, Kokichi describes himself as a pacifist whose number one priority is peace. He claims that all the world's mafias he controls would fight, destroy each other and cause unnecessary trouble to everyone around them if he wasn't there to maintain them. During a one event in the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Kokichi even claims that he truly respects police officers and detectives, who fight the bad guys yet get blamed by the public. In general, lots of his so-called supreme leader behavior seem more childish and harmless than anything else.

Indeed, despite all of his flaws, Kokichi is stated to have certain innocence which makes him hard to hate.Overall, he often appears to have good intentions, but acts on them in a harsh and confusing manner. He himself has claimed that he lies in order to entertain others and that his lies are told half out of kindness, and even the Skill received after his Free Time Events is called "Kind Lie". He has also pointed out that while there is only one truth, there are countless lies, many which of are white lies and ones used for good and told out of kindness, and that the world would not have true freedom without lies. He appears a bit offended and even saddened that the other students hate lies so much, and has once pointed out that the "truth isn't that good anyway". Even though he enjoys to lie and stir chaos, he also addresses many valid points and is occasionally the student who speaks the most sense. He sometimes harshly calls out other characters and brings up their major issues, but also appears to push them forward and improve. At one point, when he is accused of bullying, he pointed out how the other students have no problem bullying and ganging up on him despite claiming to be good people. He also occasionally appears to have moments of genuine compassion, like when Miu reveals that she is afraid to trust the other students, which seems to make Kokichi feel bad for her and listen to her very seriously. During his Free Time Events with Kaede, he warns her in a cryptic manner, though he claims he only does so because he actually cares about her. He also sympathizes with Himiko when she lies to herself and helps her out, albeit in a harsh manner, seemingly just to be nice. In his Free Time Events with Shuichi, he seems to make sure that the detective won't get actually hurt even if it means hurting himself. He occasionally even seems to feel sympathy towards K1-B0, like when the robot talks about having only average or even less than average human-like functions. He also seems to feel strong guilt for his more notable bad actions, but he is willing to take drastic actions if he believes he has to do it, and it's implied that he wishes to spare the others from this role—in Chapter 4, he appears genuinely saddened as he points that the "role of the villain" is perfect for him, because everyone hates him, and he says that he would have taken Gonta's place as the murderer if he could. After Kaede's execution, he appears tearful and angry with himself and he says he's so pissed off at himself for being so useless, but he soon claims he was just lying. In Chapter 2, he mentions that everyone's got it all wrong and he claims that he only acts like a bad guy so that the others wouldn't get too soft. He has multiple times mentioned that he does things for everyone's sake, even though the others never realize this. He is well aware that he is disliked since the very early chapters, claiming that nobody would care if he died. He stated in Chapter 5 that he thinks of everybody as his friends, appearing genuine though nobody believed him and appearing saddened as he said that he would watch them from afar because nobody would want him around. During the bonus mode Love Across the Universe's graduation event, his only dialogue is him crying about how much he loves everyone and is so glad that he met them.

While there isn't much information about what kind of person Kokichi was before the claimed brainwashing, it's shown in the Prologue that he appears much more outwardly worried about the situation the students are in, clearly visible from his facial expressions. Furthermore, he didn't show any villainous behavior, and instead he offered to go check if the Exisals are still nearby when the other students showed worry about it.

In the original Japanese release, Kokichi refers to everyone, including boys, with the suffix "-chan", although it is actually a tender suffix used for soft characters which are often female. He has a habit of referring to some of the other male characters, particularly Shuichi, in affectionate way as his "beloved" (in the English localization, this habit is more inconsistent, as it is sometimes translated as "dearest" while other times replaced with different wording). He is known to use this term of people he seems to like, but it also could be sarcastic or just flattery at times—in the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, he seems to use it sarcastically for Junko Enoshima, as he claims he is "besties" with the fashionista even though he openly considers her a "rude blonde bitch", and he also claims to love Yasuhiro Hagakure and Kiyotaka Ishimaru seemingly simply because it is so easy to trick and make fun of them. He also has a very unique laugh, which is "nishishi"—ironically, this is also the Japanese onomatopoeia for a horse, something which relates to his last name. In the English localization, the laugh is changed to "nee-heehee", which still gives a slight impression of a horse. Kokichi also occasionally uses childish way of speech such as saying "sowwy" instead of "sorry", valspeak type of dialogue such as "like", "totally", "omigod", and colloquial words like "wanna" and "gonna", and tends to drag out certain words such as "toootally".

According to Kokichi's Japanese voice actor Hiro Shimono, he is "an emotional rollercoaster of a character" and "the guy who says the things no one wants to say". He believes that Kokichi is actually really meek if you take away his strong wish to outwit everyone, and notes that people should keep a close eye on him, to understand his character better. According to Kodaka, his character focuses on duality, and his creepy expressions express his true nature to some extent.

Talent and Abilities
Ultimate Supreme Leader
Kokichi's talent as the Ultimate Supreme Leader is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Kokichi is the leader of D.I.C.E. in the past.

Fitting for his title, Kokichi claims to be a leader of a secret society, with more than 10,000 members. His name, title and clothing also have references to dictators. He has claimed that, among other things, his organization has covert agents in every country, control over all the mafias in the world, torture as a form of punishment, and that his defeated opponents will get sent in Siberia. He has also implied that his main goal is to, of course, take over the world or just watch it burn. However, on the other hand, he has also claimed that he is a pacifist who likes to settle fights with games, and that he uses his authority to control mafias so that they wouldn't fight each other and cause trouble for everyone. He also claims that his organization has mandatory tea breaks to increase productivity. However, he has also described himself as a "pretty dickish dictator", claiming that is why his minions probably wouldn't want to save him from the killing game.

With him being a liar and his overall claims seeming unlikely, most people do not believe Kokichi, believing he is either delusional or lying for attention. However, they do consider him suspicious for possessing such a title. Kokichi often tries to ask other people to join his organization, claiming it would have multiple benefits such as having all the food, sleep and sex you can wish for. In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Izuru Kamukura is shown to be uninterested in Kokichi's organization due to his ability to sense lies and his overall apathy, and Nagito Komaeda also seems to believe the organization doesn't exist because he would've already found out something about it if it did with his luck (though, out of respect, he won't tell Kokichi this out loud).

Underneath all of this, Kokichi appears to be quite childish and harmless. In his Love Suite fantasy sequence, it's shown that he likes to imagine himself as a legendary phantom thief who has a romantic rivalry with a detective. The weapons and other inventions he designed have a very childish fantasy look. Whenever he threatens to kill Shuichi and challenges him to play even dangerous games, he always makes sure Shuichi won't actually get hurt even if it means getting himself hurt. His Research Lab is shown to resemble a stereotypical evil villain's lair, including a throne, yet it only has quite comical and harmless looking items. It is later revealed that his organization is called D.I.C.E., and it is indeed just a small group of eleven pranksters (including himself) who only commit "laughable crimes" such as mild pranks, vandalism and petty theft. Their only motivation seems to be just to have fun and while their appearance can be creepy, they have a rule of not killing anybody. All of them wear similar clothing as their leader—white suits resembling straightjackets and checkered scarves (supposedly referencing the pattern associated with harlequin clowns). They also wear different clown masks as a symbol of their group and supposedly to hide their identity. The group includes both boys and girls. Kokichi's organization is very loyal to him, implying that they consider him a charismatic and well-liked figure (unlike most other people), and he considers them to be like a family.

Bearing the talent of the Ultimate Supreme Leader and a very talented liar, he is shown to be very intelligent, skilled in detecting people's lies and good at acting, though he is also shown to have skills that come across as more like a "petty thief" (as described by Maki).

In fact, Kokichi is one of the most intelligent students. He does lots of investigation alone without other people noticing, analyzes the other students, and writes their fates and his impression of them on his whiteboard. He even creates a plan to have himself killed and had written a script for Kaito to use during the class trial. The script is written thoroughly about possible reactions and possible routes of how the class trial will play out. On top of this he correctly predicted how or when some of the other students die, as well as foreshadows many other events. On that note, Kokichi also elusively gives clues and hints during trials. However, he also goes to extreme measures, such as claiming himself as the killer during the third class trial in order to bring out the real killer. This is similar to how he purposefully acts as the game's mastermind in order to lure out the real one. It's shown that while he is not as evil as he appears and feels guilt, he is willing to take drastic actions if he believes he has to.

With his notable acting skills, Kokichi is capable of hiding his true intentions and lie so well that the other students can never tell what he is truly thinking. Many of his sprites have very subtle differences, like a very tiny drop of sweat, and he can pull very demonic, even inhuman looking faces. As a notable exception, the other characters almost never believe Kokichi's obvious crocodile tears, though it's likely that he just uses them to annoy others and doesn't really even try to use them to trick others. It's also possible that he uses the dramatic crying as an outlet to let out some genuine strong emotions he is feeling yet is unwilling to show sincerely.

Being just a human, he occasionally needs a small moment to control his true feelings and put his mask back on while suffering from shock, which is portrayed by having his face being darkened by a shadow. In Chapter 4, after Kokichi leaves the trial grounds alone with an evil grin on his face, for a very short moment his face is shown to turn very serious before turning back to "evil". He also occasionally seems to just show his true emotions more openly, knowing that the others wouldn't believe them anyway, while during some other moments he seems to accidentally speak out loud what he is really thinking. Most notably, whenever his voice and face goes blank, it's heavily implied that he is being genuine and honest, and taking the current situation very seriously.

Being a skilled liar himself, Kokichi can tell whenever other people are lying, though he occasionally acts like he didn't notice or claims the other person is lying even though he knows they aren't. He can also notice when people are lying to themselves, which is a trait he considers "not good". Ironically, he claims to hate lies and liars. While Kokichi's ability to sense lies is often accurate, it is not flawless nor supernatural.

Being a prankster and a thief, he is skilled at lock picking, and is able to unlock Angie Yonaga's locked Research Lab in the day of her murder in Chapter 3. He can also snatch things from others without them noticing at first. It is stated that his lithe body significantly helps him to do this and he can also swiftly run away if noticed. Furthermore, he is skilled at hiding and lurking without other people noticing him, and sometimes uses this ability to overhear other people's conversations. He himself claims to be a master of hide and seek. However, this ability is not supernatural, meaning that he can sometimes be spotted by other people.

It's also implied that Kokichi can fight back quite well if he wants to, but his strength and fighting abilities are a bit unclear. He has claimed multiple times that he is physically weak and appears fearful whenever he is physically attacked by other people, often preferring to run away fast. However, it is also noted that his lithe body makes him very agile and in Chapter 4 he manages to punch Kaito with incredible agility (as described by Maki), though it should be noted that Kaito was at the time greatly weakened and slowed down by his illness. During the moment, Kokichi claims he had lied about not being good at fighting, and later in Chapter 5 he is seen punching Kaito without warning and earlier fought against him despite his wounds. All of this implies that he prefers not to fight and isn't technically strong, but possesses fighting spirit if he is in danger and willing to fight.

In other languages
Kokichi's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Supreme Leader
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「総統」	Super High School Level Supreme Leader
Français Despote Ultime	Ultimate Despot
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的首腦	Super High School Level Supreme Leader
中文 超高中级的首脑	Super High School Level Supreme Leader
Relationships
D.I.C.E.:
Kokichi is highly protective of the members of his group, caring about them like a family. In turn, the D.I.C.E. members are extremely loyal to him. When they are shown to be imprisoned and/or beaten, Kokichi is very distraught and plans his own death to save them. However due to the mind manipulation of Team Danganronpa, it is unknown if they actually exist.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Shuichi Saihara
Kokichi appears to be amused by and in some way fond of Shuichi, having stated that the other boy seems "decently not boring", which is a very rare and notable compliment coming from him. It is implied that Kokichi has a crush on Shuichi. He regularly calls him his "beloved Saihara-chan" in the Japanese version, and occasionally calls him "mister detective" or "mister Ultimate Detective". He also once called Shuichi "Shumai", as a parody to Kaito's "Maki Roll" nickname for Maki. Kokichi enjoys his company, finding him one of the most interesting person in the group and praises him often. He has also more than once mentioned that he is "constantly thinking about" Shuichi, and claims that he is his favorite whom he loves the most. On his whiteboard, it's shown that Kokichi has a more positive, though slightly unclear impression of Shuichi, considering him "trustworthy?". Considering his hatred of boredom, it seems Kokichi is intrigued by Shuichi's development. During the trials, he often does not reveal Shuichi's lies even though he notices them.

While he enjoys to mess with him, Kokichi appears to feel some care for Shuichi and seems to be unwilling to actually harm him. Throughout his free time events, Kokichi tries to "kill" Shuichi and involves him in many of his selfishness and pranks, though he also seems to make sure Shuichi won't be harmed and seems to just mess with him with words. He also invites him to a tea party and suggests Shuichi could join his organization, so he doesn't have to die. In the last event, Kokichi cuts his hand by accident by playing the Knife Game, causing Shuichi to take care of the cut, clearly worried. Kokichi is pleased by this and tells Shuichi he won, confusing the detective who answers that he hasn't even played yet. Kokichi tells him that games can be won without playing them, foreshadowing the end of the killing game. He then claims he never had an intention to actually kill him. Since he has made Shuichi think about him constantly, he claims he has already "killed" him by "stealing his heart".

During Chapter 3, when the students talk about the resurrection ritual, Kokichi claims he'd rather have Kaede over Rantaro to come back to life, because it would make Shuichi happy.

During Chapter 4, when everyone is inside Neo World Program, Kokichi claims he would cry if something happened to Shuichi with a worried expression. When they're alone, he tries to offer his support for Shuichi, saying he wants to use him to work together, and be useful to Shuichi as well. He attempts to separate Shuichi and Kaito, telling Shuichi that he should be his friend instead. Kokichi says he can help Shuichi save everyone, but Shuichi doesn't trust him and leaves without saying a word. Kokichi then mutters to himself about being rejected by Shuichi, but he says he won't give up that easily. He states that if he grows to like someone, he makes them notice him even if it means choking them. Kokichi then helps Shuichi during the investigation and begins to call himself Shuichi's partner. He also tries to keep Kaito away from Shuichi, claiming that Kaito and his beliefs are a bad influence on Shuichi, and that Shuichi is the only one who can save them.

During the fourth class trial, Kokichi keeps making fun of Kaito, especially whenever Kaito and Shuichi have a disagreement. He also keeps praising Shuichi and smugly points out whenever Shuichi agrees with his points and keeps emphasizing how well he and Shuichi work together. Shuichi mostly stays silent during these moments, appearing to feel a bit awkward and unsure of Kokichi's motives, though he does try to tell Kokichi to stop when he claims that Shuichi was "dissing" Kaito during their disagreement even though it wasn't true. Shuichi begins to feel increasingly suspicious of Kokichi and uses a lie against him, which seems to surprise Kokichi. Kokichi appears notably angered by this, saying that Shuichi has some balls lying to him, and then decides to ruin his fun as a detective by revealing the truth behind the case. Kokichi in general appears irritated by the others hatred for lies so much, even ones that are harmless and done with good intentions, and mocks them after the truth they love so much turns out to be so painful and hard to believe. After Gonta's execution, Kokichi seems to lose some of his sanity and begins to act exaggeratedly "evil". When he calls Kaito "pathetic", Shuichi speaks back to him by stating that Kaito always has them by his side, but nobody would want to be around Kokichi. He tells Kokichi he is alone and he will always be, which seems to genuinely affect Kokichi, whose face suddenly turns blank and he complains things got boring and he doesn't care anymore. In the end, Shuichi considers Kokichi an "embodiment of lies".

In Kokichi's Love Suite scene, his fantasy involves him being a legendary thief who's been captured by his archenemy, the detective Shuichi Saihara, with the scene including lots of sexual tension. It's revealed that Kokichi let himself to be caught on purpose and actually wishes to get tied up and "interrogated" roughly, but Shuichi does not want to hurt him and is confused by the situation, which seems to disappoint Kokichi a bit. Shuichi continues to act very hesitant and Kokichi says it does not matter how Shuichi feels, though he soon states he was lying about that. Kokichi asks if Shuichi is mad because he feels like Kokichi is playing with his heart and he says his head is always filled with thoughts of Shuichi. He tries to trick Shuichi by claiming that they are surrounded by Kokichi's subordinates, but Shuichi can tell he is lying. Kokichi then confesses he wanted to be caught by Shuichi and wouldn't mind whatever Shuichi would do to him with a deep sensual voice, stating this is the truth while having a blank expression, which is heavily implied to be a sign of honesty in him. Since Shuichi does not make a move, Kokichi says he wants to play with him and do a lot more with, and pushes him on the bed. Shuichi tries to tell Kokichi to wait, slightly panicking and flustered by the situation, which turns Kokichi very silent and serious. He suddenly claims he was just kidding and suddenly runs off, which confuses Shuichi even more and he shouts after Kokichi. He wishes the other boy would stay, but quickly smothers the thought. Right before leaving the room, Kokichi says he wishes to have more fun games with the detective next time they meet.

This is the only fantasy sequence in which Shuichi has his true role as the detective, and surprised Shuichi emphasizes in his thoughts that they're both themselves unlike in most other fantasy sequences, which confirms further that Kokichi is indeed attracted to him.

During the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Shuichi realizes that he cannot change Kokichi's lying which is a significant part of him and instead should try to understand him and his lies. In the end, Shuichi blushes while admitting to himself that he is intrigued by Kokichi, being drawn in and always wanting to know more about him. Kokichi thinks this made all the lying worth it and says they should keep their relationship going after they get out of the academy, so that Shuichi can get to know the real him.

During a one event in the bonus mode, Kokichi claims that he truly respects police officers, who fight the bad guys yet get blamed by the public. He then says that the same goes for detectives and he gives Shuichi a somewhat back-handed compliment, saying that he's really amazing for taking such boring and unprofitable job. Interestingly, for once, he does not mention anything about it being a truth or a lie during the conversation.

Kaito Momota
Kokichi and Kaito have a violent relationship, marked by constant antagonism and disagreements, since Kokichi acts like a stereotypical villainous character while Kaito is the stereotypical hero type. Neither understands the other's way of thinkingーKokichi believes Kaito is gullible and dumb for having such blind faith in others with no logic, while Kaito hates Kokichi's lies and more cynical way of thinking. However, Kokichi also understands that they simply have different views due to coming from different backgrounds and has stated that he doesn't wish for Kaito to change because his current attitude makes things interesting, showing that he does appreciate Kaito in a way. Kaito doesn't seem to have this sort of appreciation for Kokichi, only finding his views extremely frustrating and always refusing to believe Kokichi's words despite his claims of believing in everyone, as he believes that Kokichi is never going to change his ways.

Despite his best attempts to stay calm, Kaito sometimes ended up lashing out at Kokichi when the latter infuriated him, even punching him once. Kaito often made threats toward Kokichi, and in turn, Kokichi would taunt or anger him more but for the sake of trying to overpower him and scare him. Throughout the game, Kokichi mocks Kaito for his foolishness, going as far as to call him an idiot several times in the Chapter 2 trial for blindly believing in Maki. Kaito does get pissed off at the insults, shouting at him and the others to stop calling him an idiot. Often, the two's fighting can turn into childish arguments. However, Kokichi occasionally appears genuinely scared of Kaito's violence and sometimes runs away and hides from him for quite a while.

However, despite their extremely rocky relationship, it's been shown that Kaito can be more understanding towards Kokichi and tries to think about the reasoning behind Kokichi's actions when he is calmed down. He has talked to Shuichi about it more than once, such as when he recognized the way he lashed out in the beginning of Chapter 4 was most likely due to the fact he was frustrated with all the murder and tense situations they've been put through, and Kaito also appeared to understand Kokichi's motive in Chapter 2 though he was unsure about it. Notably, Kaito realizes how Kokichi's behavior changes during Chapter 4, appearing much more malicious than before, and he wonders what happened to him. Furthermore, Kaito appears protective of Kokichi whenever Maki attempts to strangle him, and clearly doesn't want him dead despite their issues.

During the Chapter 3 trial, Kokichi goes on about how it's impossible to trust anyone to their fullest, so he doesn't see the point of trusting anyone at all. He goes as far as to say Tenko lied to Himiko about her intentions during the ritual, accusing the victim of committing suicide underneath the cage to get them all killed. For this, Kaito calls Kokichi "such a naive dude", telling him that everyone has a secret to keep, and he shouldn't get so paranoid over someone's true thoughts. Kokichi comments that no one has ever called him naive before, and is taken aback by it. In the Japanese version, Kaito calls Kokichi "pure" instead of "naive", which garners the same shocked result from the supreme leader.

During Chapter 4, Kokichi attempts to separate Kaito and Shuichi by telling Shuichi that he should be his friend and partner instead. As a result, the two keep fighting for Shuichi's attention, and Kokichi even teasingly mocks Kaito by asking twice if he likes him or something because he keeps pestering him when he is trying to talk with Shuichi. Kokichi claims that Kaito's naive behavior is troublesome for Shuichi's work as a detective and tells him to leave Shuichi alone. During the fourth trial, he is highly amused when Shuichi talks back to Kaito even though he is supposed to be his sidekick and he thinks it's really funny when Kaito looses his cool. He smugly mocks Kaito whenever Shuichi agrees with his reasoning over Kaito's and proclaims how well he and Shuichi work together. The two's attitudes towards each other turn increasingly more aggressive when it becomes apparent that Gonta might be the culprit. Kaito refuses to believe it and believes Kokichi is just trying to trick and blame Gonta, while in turn Kokichi becomes very frustrated when Kaito's stubbornness derails the trial and even causes a great risk for everyone else. Kaito yells at Kokichi to stop when he is shouting at Gonta, and with complete seriousness says that he doesn't want to survive if it means stooping down to Kokichi's level. Kokichi seems genuinely very insulted by this, stating it was a low blow with a faked smile, and then furiously yells at Kaito to go die in a hole and stop getting in the way of people who want to survive. Kokichi then appears to calm down his anger a bit and eventually Kaito is forced to realize that Gonta truly is the culprit. However, it's heavily implied that Kaito still voted for Kokichi out of spite. When Kokichi turns silent after the execution, Kaito demands him to explain himself to everyone if he truly did care about Gonta like he appeared to right before the execution. Kaito is shocked when Kokichi instead begins to act even more evil than before. When Kokichi calls Miu and Gonta's deaths meaningless, Kaito loses his temper and attacks Kokichi, but gets instead punched by the smaller boy due to his weakened state caused by the illness. Kokichi mockingly claims that the punch was just an accident and then indirectly reveals that he knows Kaito is ill and has lied to everyone about it.

After "revealing" himself as the mastermind, Kokichi captures Kaito because his spirit would get everyone fired up and his hotheadedness is troublesome in general. He believes that Kaito's attitude with a group of other people could cause a new killing game. Kaito does attempt to persuade Kokichi for answers by threatening him with a crossbow retrieved by Himiko and shooting him in the arm with it. They begin to start fighting, but it's interrupted by Maki breaking into the hangar to torture and kill Kokichi herself. Kaito, however, protects Kokichi from the finishing arrow. Even when both had been shot with the poison arrow Maki equipped, Kaito swore he wouldn't allow himself to die, and stop him, and Kokichi is impressed by his determination. He calls him "not boring", which is a huge and genuine compliment Kokichi has given only to Shuichi and Kaede besides Kaito, indicating that Kaito earned his respect.

Kaito then murdered Kokichi, according to their plan, seemingly to protect Maki and because of blackmail. However, even though Kaito was roped into helping with Kokichi's plan, he later reveals that he was actually convinced when it's purpose was to ruin the killing game, and admitted that he found the idea pretty awesome, and willingly went through with the plan to end the killing game with Kokichi. Kaito also listened to Kokichi's last words, but later admits that he wasn't sure what was true and what was Kokichi's true character. Kaito admits he hated Kokichi and that he pissed him off, but also admits that only a crazy guy like him could have a crazy plan needed to defeat Monokuma, and the two appeared to form a sort of mutual respect during their last moments.

Maki Harukawa
Throughout the killing game, Kokichi and Maki constantly antagonized one another. Upon discovering her true talent as the Ultimate Assassin, Kokichi threatens to reveal her secret, causing Maki to literally attempt to strangle him in front of the other students. However, when he succeeds, this later puts them at odds with one another.

Kokichi enjoys provoking Maki, starting after the second trial, during which he accuses her of driving Ryoma Hoshi to suicide by showing the tennis player his motive video. He often uses her talent against her, referring to her as "killer girl" or "murder girl", and constantly encourages the other students not to interact with a murderer. During class trials, Kokichi often remarks at Maki's familiarity with murder methods and corpses whenever she uses this knowledge to help in cases. This usually results in Kokichi being met by one of Maki's glares, at which point he silences out of fear. However, his remarks which follow indicate that he is not actually afraid of her. Despite this, Kokichi seems to be genuinely disturbed by her, possibly due to D.I.C.E.'s vendetta against murder.

Maki, on the other hand, despises Kokichi for divulging her secret. She often calls him an "asshole" or "son of a bitch", which is odd because she ofterwise never swears. Furthermore, while she is often quite logical, her judgement can be occasionally clouded by her hatred of Kokichi. Despite this, she is normally very calm when dealing with him, typically choosing to ignore him, save for the occasional glares whenever he manages to annoy her. However, this changes after he starts antagonizing Kaito, who Maki developed romantic interest in. Aware of her feelings for Kaito, Kokichi uses this to his advantage, infuriating her by insulting or physically hurting him.

As a result, Maki's hatred for him became so strong, to the point where she relished the thought of "beating him to a bloody pulp" and outrightly claiming that were it not for the killing game, she would've assassinated him already. In Chapter 5, she strangles him once again after the others become suspicious of his intentions, demanding him for the truth, only to be stopped by Kaito. Later, Kokichi kidnapping Kaito, as well as his "confessing" to being the mastermind, further worsens Maki's hatred, to the point where Shuichi comments that he can "feel" her murderous intent. After Kokichi is "revealed" to have been the leader of Ultimate Despair, Maki seems to think of killing him as an assassination mission, believing that his death will not only allow her to save Kaito, but end the killing game as well.

Fueled with anger and these beliefs, Maki makes an attempt to kill and torture Kokichi for information with slow-acting poison-tipped arrows. Despite her attempts to intimidate him, Kokichi only infuriates her further, calling her a murderer and wondering if she enjoys killing that much. However, Maki fails to assassinate Kokichi after Kaito takes the shot for him. After Kokichi supposedly drinks the antidote that could've saved Kaito, he laughs evilly, frightening Maki with the fact that she would become the blackened for murdering Kaito. While this was technically part of his plan to fool Maki in order to end the killing game, it is also implied he only taunted her for the fun of it.

Still determined to defeat Kokichi, Maki resolves to kill him no matter what she must sacrifice. As a result, she is even willing to sabatoge the trial to get the other students (including Kokichi) killed. She even puts herself at odds with Shuichi, discouraging and insulting him during the trial despite him being one of her closest friends at the academy. This shows the lengths she was willing to go to in order to kill Kokichi.

Gonta Gokuhara
Kokichi considers Gonta a typical dumb muscle and planned to use him as one of his minions from the start. His lack of respect towards Gonta is seen in the way he doesn't use any honorifics when talking to him in the Japanese version.

In Chapter 2, Kokichi tricks Gonta to work for him by pretending to be a fellow bug lover. In order to get everyone's Kubs Pad, Kokichi used Gonta to bring the students into his Research Lab. He lied that the others hated bugs and they should all have relaxing time with the insects and appreciate them. However, K1-B0 soon exposes Kokichi's lie, making Gonta furious. He forces Kokichi to stay, telling him that they shall spend the whole night petting bugs. The other students escape the scene quickly, hearing the sound of "buzzing and Kokichi's screams" from the lab. It's stated that Gonta was less trustful of Kokichi after the incident, though still continued to be close to him to keep an eye on him.

In Chapter 4, Kokichi seemingly manipulated Gonta into killing Miu for him, because Miu had made it so that Kokichi couldn't harm her. However, it is also indicated that they both agreed that mercy killing would be the best action, and that Gonta's decision was ultimately his own. During the class trial, Gonta felt horrible and cried, having no memories of what happened due to an avatar error. Kokichi got increasingly frustrated when Gonta was unable to argue back, and seemed genuine when he stated that it hurts his heart to persecute Gonta so much.

After hearing everything that happened, Gonta still chose to forgive Kokichi and told the others not to blame him, which seemed to genuinely touch Kokichi a lot. Seeming to feel genuinely bad, Kokichi said he should be punished too, but Gonta disagreed and just told him to promise him that everyone will forgive each other and be friends. Kokichi is speechless for a second, but in seriousness gives Gonta his word. As the execution grows closer, Kokichi seems to genuinely break down and cry and shouts Gonta's name, saying he doesn't want this and telling Gonta not to go. After Gonta is executed, the burden of all the guilt and knowledge seems to affect Kokichi's sanity, with him beginning to act exaggeratedly "evil" and claiming that he didn't care about Gonta and that he was just fake crying.

In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Kokichi often tricks Gonta with his lies, but Gonta considers him a friend after the three years they spent together. However, Kokichi tells Gonta that they won't see each other anymore after graduating due to them being a gentleman and an evil supreme leader. Kokichi tells Gonta that he won't be tricked by someone like him anymore. He claims he is so sad he barely eats and he cries himself to sleep at night, which makes Gonta worried, though Kokichi soon claims it's just a lie. Interestingly, when Gonta is genuinely saddened because he won't see Kokichi anymore, Kokichi reacts with slight anger and believes Gonta is trying to trick him back, showing that he believes other people can't genuinely care about him, not even someone as kind as Gonta. Nevertheless, Kokichi bids Gonta his farewell, claiming he isn't a gentleman like Gonta. Gonta feels even more sad as a result, and says he wishes it was a lie.

K1-B0
Kokichi enjoys teasing K1-B0 due to K1-B0 being oblivious and a robot, thus making him an easy target. K1-B0 is very uncomfortable with Kokichi because of this and repeatedly asks him to stop. Kokichi freguently refers to the robot as "Kee-boy", even though he said he’d rather be called Keebo.

However, Kokichi does not really appear to have a malicious intent, as he seems genuinely interested in K1-B0. His behavior seems more like ignorance and innocent bigotry, as he seemingly considers robots interesting and "cool", but he thinks they aren't people, and thus he does not treat K1-B0 like a real person. He is excited about K1-B0, wanting to be friends with "the robot" and childishly chasing him in an attempt to touch him, seemingly not realizing that his behavior is offensive and condescending. He also curiously asks about how the robot functions, like asking about his private parts, and seems disappointed if the answers are duller than he expected. He also wanted to get rocket punched by K1-B0, but the robot stated he doesn't have such function, which made Kokichi very disappointed and wonder why the robot even exists.

Kokichi continues to treat K1-B0 in a discriminating and increasingly cruel manner throughout the game. He tends to suggest K1-B0 should do heavy work, because he is a robot, and keeps pointing out that he isn't a person. When they enter Neo World Program for the first time, Kokichi almost immediately slaps K1-B0, supposedly to test how it works inside the program. He constantly brings up how K1-B0 is different from the others and isn't a person, and points out his difficulties with understanding human emotions. However, at one point, he seems genuinely surprised by the idea that K1-B0 might genuinely understand human emotions.

On his whiteboard, Kokichi describes K1-B0 as "weird", and considering his intelligence it's possible that he was paranoid and suspicious of a robot in a killing game setting that logically should be for humans.

Notably, after Kokichi's death and hearing his last words from Kaito, K1-B0 is the one who seems to believe that his dying words may have been the honest truth and not a lie. Considering his inner voice, he was very likely right.

During the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, after spending three years as Kokichi's classmate, K1-B0 admits that he considers Kokichi his friend even though he isn't fond of his robophobia. Kokichi seems genuinely surprised and maybe even touched by this, but quickly continues his usual teasing.

Miu Iruma
Miu and Kokichi have a very negative relationship, both disliking the other heavily. She insults him by calling him a shota and a compulsive liar (in the English version, she goes even further by calling him "lying little abortion"). Kokichi, in turn, is shown to be very irritated and disgusted by Miu, often calling her by derogatory terms like a whore and a bitch, most noticeably a pig, which could link back to Kokichi having a dislike for "pig feet", and saying that she's things like ugly, smelly and useless. He also often insults her and calls her a pervert due to her sexual nature. Kokichi's treatment of Miu seems much harsher than with anyone else as he quite often appears genuine while insulting her, though being a masochist, Miu often just enjoys the insults. In her relationship chart, he orders her to get on her knees. The two are seen insulting each other multiple times during the trials, with Kokichi winning these debates due to his stronger personality.

In chapter 2, Kokichi witnessed Miu wandering around in the dark, walking around in her underwear in the courtyard as a tactic to escape Gonta. During investigation, Kokichi tells the others about the situation and how strange it was, with him appearing visibly disappointed. He later mocks her during the trial for being perverted.

In chapter 4, Miu tried to ask everyone to enter the virtual world and ordered them to bow to her, but Kokichi told her that she should be the one bowing since she is asking something from them. Unlike in many earlier situations, Miu seems very uncomfortable by this, and appears very down after obeying Kokichi's command. In the virtual world, Miu attempted to murder Kokichi and frame Kaito for it, placing a bottle of poison on his chair to make it look like he got poisoned. However, Kokichi lured Gonta into killing Miu by strangling her with a roll of toilet paper. Later when Gonta was found as a culprit, Kokichi told Monokuma to execute him as well which implied he felt extreme guilt, but he appeared to mostly feel guilt for getting Gonta executed instead of Miu.

In chapter 5, it's revealed that Kokichi talked with Miu before the fourth murder happened and asked her to make various inventions to fight against Monokuma. While Miu agreed to create the inventions, she explained that she wouldn't cooperate with the others because she believed there would inevitably be a betrayal. Kokichi listened to her words seriously and later appeared to feel genuinely bad for her when he told the others about the conversation. Despite her murder attempt, Miu claims to have no particular ill-intent against Kokichi.

Kaede Akamatsu
Kokichi quickly notices flaws in Kaede's judgement and optimistic way of thinking, as she is willing to push others forward even if it would be the best to give up. He also has a tendency to act saddened and complain how mean the others are towards "the poor girl", making the other students to point out that he is always the first one to suspect her. Kaede thinks Kokichi is just like a mischievous child messing around and believes he is constantly lying and just wants attention. She is rather firm with him, openly stating her annoyance with him out loud, to which Kokichi once responded with a relaxed, seemingly genuine smile and appeared slightly impressed as he stated that Kaede really seems to know how to stand her ground.

During the beginning of his second Free Time Event with Kaede, he runs around screaming that Kaede is about to murder him, but he's just pretending and having fun. He also tries to trick Kaede by claiming that K1-B0 is behind her with a knife. Later during the Event, after noticing how Kaede has fallen for many of his lies so far, he warns her that she'll be the first one to die if she continues to be such an easy mark. He tries to ask her to join his organization and be a cover agent pianist, but she believes all of it is just Kokichi's delusions. He then explains to her that the definition of common sense varies depending on person and asks her why she thinks her definition is the right one. He then tells her that he is only warning her because he actually cares about her, but also tells her not to come crying back to him if things don't go her way. Considering his words nonsense, Kaede does not appear to truly listen to him.

In general, Kaede appears to be one of the students Kokichi is a bit more interested in, as he appears to have fun while talking with her and he sometimes seems to turn more serious and enigmatic while they're talking alone, which seems to indicate that he has some form of respect for her. He is decently friendly towards her whenever he isn't in his villainous mood, cheerfully wishing her good morning, though of course he can also give her rather nasty remarks. He also mischievously teases her by asking how far she's gone with Shuichi, and then claims that he simply meant to ask how far they have searched the area. He then explains that they're strangers, so he really doesn't care what she and Shuichi do, and then points out that even friends don't share everything with each other. Kokichi explains that he is more nervous around friends who share too much than strangers, which confuses Kaede and turns her silent with a slightly worried expression. Later, when Kaede rushes to stop the fighting in the cafeteria, she can stop to talk to Kokichi and ask him why he isn't there to stop it if he knows about it. He reminds her that the time limit is very near and asks her that who is she to stop people who feel the need to take action to survive. However, he then grins and says that by the same reasoning, who is he to stop her and then encourages her to go stop them and says he believes in her.

Right before Kaede's execution, Kokichi has a blank expression (which often seems to indicate honesty in him), as he blankly states "bye" and then mentions that Kaede isn't a boring person. Coming from him, this appears to be quite a notable compliment, and it is worth noting that Kokichi had said the same phrase only to Shuichi and Kaito.

In the official art book, it is stated that even Kaede, who always wants to believe in everyone, doubts Kokichi's stories a lot and doesn't have patience with him.However, she still considers him a friend along with everyone else and tells him seriously that they should cooperate in the relationship chart.

Rantaro Amami
Like everyone else, Rantaro can be a bit annoyed with Kokichi's behavior. While the two are not shown interacting much, Kokichi called him "My dearest Rantaro" ("My beloved Amami-chan" in the original Japanese) and cried when he saw his corpse. However, his attitude changed very quickly, making it hard to tell which one of his reactions was truthful. Kokichi later claims he doesn't want Rantaro to come back to life, because he'd rather have Shuichi's wish to have Kaede come back true, to make Shuichi happy.

Much later, it's seen that Kokichi has the life-like statue of Rantaro made by Angie hanging upside down next to his bed, as a part of the evidence pieces he has hoarded. He chose it over Kaede, Kirumi and Ryoma's ones, indicating that he has more interest in Rantaro than them.

During one of the anthology stories, it's shown that Rantaro might have a big brotherly attitude towards Kokichi. When the students are attempting to catch Kokichi, they set an "Amami trap", with him waiting in place and attempting to catch him with his arms. However, Kokichi sweetly asks him to let him go and calls him "big bro", causing Rantaro to immediately soften and let him pass "just for that one time", to the annoyance of the other students. He is seen treating Kokichi somewhat similarly in other stories as well, treating him more kindly and patiently as if he were a child, though in his thoughts he is finding Kokichi quite bothersome and a type of person he will probably never get used to.

Himiko Yumeno
Kokichi enjoys teasing and picking on Himiko due to her delayed reactions and personality, which make her an easy target since she often does not realize what Kokichi means and gets angry whenever she does. Kokichi tends to point fingers at her and claim she's the culprit, though he doesn't really seem to believe this and seemingly just does it for fun, like in Chapter 2. Being overly protective of Himiko, Tenko assumes Kokichi likes Himiko, because she believes boys only tease the girls they like. Kokichi answers with a slightly surprised and innocent "huh!? how'd you know?!", though he was just doing it to joke around.

During Chapter 3's trial, Kokichi bluntly calls Himiko out for being a hypocrite for being saddened over Tenko's murder, despite her cold attitude toward the girl beforehand. Himiko had made promises and talked at-length during the trial about how she wasn’t going to call things tiresome and she was going to embrace her emotions to the fullest and be honest with herself, but she wasn't actually following through. After the Chapter 3 trial, Kokichi prompts Himiko to cry by bluntly calling her out for lying to herself by running away from her own emotions and bottling up her true feelings. He recognizes that she was holding back her feelings, and as a result, lying to herself. This causes Himiko to recall Tenko's last words to her, about how crying, laughing, and venting your anger out makes you feel better than bottling it all up, and she finally cries until she falls asleep. It’s heavily implied that Kokichi genuinely cared about Himiko at the moment, as he himself states that he was being so harsh because he cares. While he dislikes people lying to themselves, he also appears to sympathize with them, and his speech ended up helping Himiko a lot. As a result, however, Himiko really dislikes and doesn't trust Kokichi in the later chapters. Kokichi also appeared to genuinely compliment Himiko during the trial, when her decision to use the middle room turned out to be extremely important clue.

During Chapter 5's class trial, Himiko states that there is no way to love or take interest in a person like Kokichi. However, Kokichi teasingly says that he knows that she likes him and then claims that he likes her in a more sincere sounding voice, though his facial expressions cannot be seen due to the Exisal. Himiko is a bit shocked by the surprising answer, blushing deeply and putting her hand to her heart. The other students quickly get angry at Kokichi and tell him to stop playing with Himiko's heart. With his lying and mischievous nature, it is hard to tell how serious Kokichi was, but it's likely that he simply gave a surprising answer for his own amusement, especially since it's been shown that Himiko would be easily tricked with such words and Kokichi's more serious sounding tone at the time. The script was written by Kokichi, but it's unknown how sincere he was portrayed, so Kaito only followed what was written down. After revealing himself, Kaito also confessed that he had to ad-lib quite a bit.

In her relationship chart, Kokichi grins while calling her "an extremely ugly girl". He similarly calls Himiko ugly during the Prologue, when Miu tells the Monokubs to kill the ugly ones first, and Kokichi then cheerfully tells Himiko to run. Himiko, however, does not understand what he's talking about.

Kirumi Tojo
After learning that she is a great cook, Kokichi wants Kirumi to be his "mom" and keeps asking her about it. She is not fond of the idea, though.

In chapter 2, she catches him sneaking around during the night, inquiring what he's doing and why he's being so supicious. He only dodges her questions, replying with a playful suggestion to "play with him", Kirumi taking that as a request as she begins to chase him around the school, which results in Kokichi being an hour later than he said he'd be to the Insect Meet And Greet. When Kokichi later explains about this to Shuichi, he wonders in apparent annoyance if Kirumi thinks she's his mom or something, though Shuichi then points out that he was the one who asked her to be his mom.

When Kirumi is found out to be Ryoma Hoshi's murderer, Kokichi seems disappointed, but not all too surprised. He even realizes that Kirumi was confessing her reason to murder, the contents of her Motive Video and talking about her devotion to the citizens of her country was all to garner pity, nearly causing the others to sacrifice themselves for her to escape, and calls her out for it. She appears furious by this, calling him "the most detestable cretin [she] has ever met." Despite the sour parting, he does appear to harbor some genuine respect for her after her execution, stating that running away in order to live isn't a bad thing.

In the next chapter, he cries to Shuichi about missing his "mom"'s food, but immediately calms down and answers with "Uh, yeah? You think I don't know that?" when Shuichi reminds him that Kirumi isn't his real mom.

In the official art book, it is indicated that Kirumi regularly polished Kokichi's shoes.

Korekiyo Shinguji
Kokichi gets on Korekiyo's nerves with his behavior. When he attempts to touch Korekiyo's katana without his permission while they're inside his Research Lab, Korekiyo disturbingly threatens to tear out all of his nerves, which seems to frighten Kokichi.

Angie Yonaga
When Kokichi cries and appears scared at one point, Angie comforts him by telling him about Atua, the god of the island. Kokichi then appears to calm down immediately, but it's likely that he was just acting and messing with her.

After Angie's student council is formed, Kokichi is shown to dislike it and the brainwashing quite a lot, even having a few genuinely angry reactions while listening to the brainwashed students. More or less jokingly, he proclaims that the rest of the students should have a war against the student council.

Tenko Chabashira
Kokichi does not seem to interact with Tenko much. This is possibly intentional from his part, as Tenko is very quick to violence and has threatened him multiple times, which is something Kokichi often wishes to avoid. Furthermore, Tenko isn't very smart, which is a trait Kokichi isn't very interested in if he doesn't find it useful. Unsurprisingly, Tenko strongly dislikes Kokichi, who has many traits she considers typical "degenerate male" behavior, most notably lying, and tends to refer to him as a "little degenerate" in a mocking manner.

Tenko especially dislikes Kokichi due to his habit of bullying Himiko. Before the trial in Chapter 2, she seems to assume that Kokichi might like Himiko, since she believes in the old belief that boys tease the girls they like. Kokichi answers with a slightly surprised and innocent "huh!? how'd you know?!", and then appears relaxed as he tells her they should focus on the class trial and talk about it later. Like in most situations, it's unclear how serious Kokichi actually is, but it is likely that he was just joking.

During the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Kokichi tries to prank Shuichi a few times—when Shuichi brings up something suggestive in a few situations, Kokichi claims that he should ask Tenko since she is actually just being a tsundere and would be a good stripper, which would obviously end very badly for Shuichi.

Mascots:
Monokuma
Kokichi sees Monokuma as a cool robot. However, unlike K1-B0, Kokichi doesn't tease him for being a robot. He thinks that Monokuma is the coolest one of all the Monokumas and even considers his children, the Monokubs, a ripoff of Monokuma.

Kokichi and Monokuma worked together in Chapter 4 in order to make the Killing game much more interesting and both prepared a motive for students, which was the outside world. Kokichi also lied about him being part of the Ultimate Despair and was the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship during the Gofer Plan, which effectively forced everyone to participate in the Killing School Semester as he supposedly was the one who started all this. However, in order to defeat Monokuma, Kokichi lied to Monokuma in order to confuse him from the one who supposedly died.

Free Time
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Kokichi Oma, Hotel Kumasutra#Kokichi Oma
Presents
Kokichi Pixel Head Icon
Kokichi Oma
Loves:	062. Commemorative Medal Set, 090. Electric Tempest, 098. Hammock, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	002. Boba Tea, 005. Non-Alcoholic Drink of Immortality, 009. Astro Cake, 010. Bubble Gum Bomb, 014. Rock Hard Ice Cream, 015. Sukiyaki Caramel, 017. Gyoza In the Shape of a Face, 025. Autumn-Colored Scarf, 029. Wearable Blanket, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 032. Cufflinks, 033. Dog Tag, 035. Book of the Blackened, 036. Feelings of Ham, 037. Travel Journal, 045. High-End Headphones, 047. Milk Puzzle, 054. Flame Thunder, 055. Tattered Music Score, 057. Fashionable Glasses, 059. Plastic Moon Buggy Model, 067. Proxilingual Device, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 071. Dancing Haniwa, 072. Work Chair Of Doom, 073. 3-Hit KO Sandbag, 077. Clock-Shaped Gaming Console, 085. Weathercock of Barcelous, 086. Pillow of Admiration, 087. 46 Moves of the Killing Game, 088. Monkey's Paw, 092. Death Flag, 093. Survival Flag, 095. Home Planet, 099. Cleansing Air Freshener, 102. Rock-Paper-Scissors Cards, 103. Perfect Laser Gun, 106. Dangan Werewolf, 107. Tentacle Machine, 110. Fully-Automated Shaved Ice Machine, 111. Gun of Man's Passion, 113. Dark Belt
Quotes
DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"You have no idea how many crazy things I've done, do you? If you knew, my subordinates would have eliminated you a long time ago, Makoto."
"Well, of course you're not a suspicious person, because robots aren't people, silly."
"Kaito! This trial won't go anywhere if you don't suspect anyone!"
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"I'm Kokichi Oma, the Ultimate Supreme Leader!"
"Of course you don't think I'm funny. Robots can't understand human humor to begin with!"
"Hey, do robots have dicks? Nee-heehee... I only asked because your backstory is pretty flacid for a robot."
"Oh, I'm just the supreme leader of an evil secret organization. That's all. I gotta say, it's pretty impressive. My organization has over 10,000 members!"
Chapter 1:

"Yeah, let's work together! We messed up last time, but I'm sure it'll go well this time!"
"You know what really hurts? Being denied the right to give up in an impossible situation...You won't let us give up and no matter what we say, you have the moral high ground...When you say we can't give up, you're not inspiring us-you're strong-arming us!"
"We shouldn't have to push ourselves...Lets just find another way out, okay?"
"Well, that was a lie. Y'know, one of those lies to make us more united or whatever. Did you know half my lies are actually told with good intentions?"
"Wh-what do you mean...the killing game...is gonna continue...? I mean, that sounds a lot less boring...so I guess it's okay!"
"N-No way...Are we really gonna die? I don't wanna die yet...I'm gonna survive! I'm gonna make it no matter what!"
"Besides, even friends don't share *everything* with each other!"
"I'm more nervous around friends who share too much than strangers, really."
"I'm gonna survive! I'm gonna make it no matter what!"
"Cuz I'm an evil supreme leader, remember? I'm supposed to be suspicious!"
"If I gave you honest answers now, it'd just make everything boring, riiiight?"
"I'm just saying...this is a game. Let's have some fun with it!"
"Yeah, since I'm a leader of evil and stuf. I've done a looooot of bad things."
"It's not that rare for you to make a mistake. Your entire existence is a mistake."
"A talented liar like me can spot other people's lies easily."
"As soon as that thought entered your head, Monokuma had you right where he wanted. Because what mattered most to Monokuma is that the killing game started."
"Regardless of your reasons, the moment you felt the urge to kill, you had already lost. You agreed to be part of this killing game when you allowed murder to fill your heart."
"Yep! Just hit the reset button on your feelings and you'll feel happy and cheerful in no time!"
Chapter 2:

"Nee-heehee... Gonta, you're so gullible. Y'know, if you keep being this gullible... You'll be killed before you know it. Understand?"
"Hm? I'm a teenager...so duh, I'm immature. Aren't you guys forgetting to act your age?"
"If you keep saying all this uplifting stuff about working together and cooperating... ...then you can expect to receive some painful retaliation. Get it?"
"Don't get the wrong idea. I'm not saying we shouldn't care about killing or dying... But I think it'd be better if we didn't cooperate with each other... Actually, we *definitely* should'nt cooperate with each other! Which means, the more we try to cooperate, the more he'll try to make us suffer."
"Kaito, it's good to be confident, but not when you're wrong about everything all the time."
"Nee-heehee... As an evil supreme leader, I can't pass up the chance to watch you win a jackpot!"
"Isn't it great!? Only an evil supreme leader like me could do something so...eeeeeevil!"
"But I like playing on Mean difficulty. Also, I don't run from battles in RPGs, either! I wanna win this killing game! So I'm not gonna run from it, I'm gonna crush it! That'll be waaaay less boring, don'tcha think?"
"If the thought of playing a death game doesn't excite you, you'll never win. Understand?"
"We...swore to each other, didn't we? We swore we'd never let the killing game start up again. So that was all just a lie! You guys are liars! All you liars, apologize to Ryoma! He believed the killing game wouldn't happen anymore!"
"Time to work hard to solve this mystery! Get ready, culprit, cuz here I cooome!"
"You guys talk about cooperation and teamwork, but you're all afraid. You're too scared to point your fingers at others, so you hide behind the word, "trust."
"How do you expect to find the culprit when you're all worried about each other's feelings? If you're planning to expose a liar, then you have to corner them psychologically... Only then will they reveal their true self as a liar—hiding beneath a layer of deceit! We'll scare the culprit until they screw up! That's how a true Class Trial works. Let's start this extreme death debate! Tear up the other's lies! Rip each other apart!"
"I told you already, we don't need to... I hate liars! Liar, liar, pants on fire!"
"Maki is lying! Like I said before, a liar like me knows their own kind!"
"No more lies, then. You better just tell us the truth, please and thank you."
"She was hoping that learning the truth would make one of us volunteer to die in her place....she wanted everyone to rebel, so she could use that as cover to escape on her own."
"How rude. I'm always doing stuff for everyone's sake. I'm sure you won't believe me when I say stuff like that, so I'll just keep lying..."
"She tried to escape until the very end... Running away to live...might not be a bad idea."
Chapter 3:

"Geez, robots can't even understand human feelings, let alone a girl's heart."
"Damn it... I've got too much pride as a human to let those robots push me around!"
"....Cults like these can be reaaally annoying if you get on their bad side."
"Yeah! We gotta talk about which one of us is the culprit, and win this killing game!"
"Complicated plans have a better chance of working out in the end, wouldn't you say?"
"Is it wise of us to trust other people wholeheartedly in this kind of situation?"
"People can lie about how malicious their hidden secrets really are."
"The craziness is what really makes the killing game fun, y'know? They can't get away with murder the normal way, so they gotta think outside the box. Kudos, culprit! You did a great job keeping me entertained!"
"Nee-heehee... I do lie a lot, and I could be lying right now too... But, I'm pretty sure *someone's* panicking right now because of my lie."
"Gifted high school students forced to play a killing game... Man! If people were watching this, they would get a kick out of it!"
"Ooohhh, you guys are so close now. This must be the powerful bond of friendship. But I would've preferred it to happen sooner. Especially not after losing seven people."
"Humans are like weeds—too numerous to count. Seven of us dead doesn't mean much in the end."
"Personally, I don't think lies are exactly a bad thing... Let's face it, you wouldn't have any free will if the world was comprised with just the truth. But even then...I don't think it's good to lie to yourself, y'know?"
Chapter 4:

"Yeah! Let's cheer up and work hard! This game is just getting started!"
"Woooow, so exciting! But I definitely don't wanna die! Well, I guess that's the same for everyone else! Ah-hahahahahaha!"
"There's nothing more depressing than an unnoticed prank."
"Cuz this is the killing game and we're the players, plain and simple. Why *wouldn't* the players play the game?"
"It's not stupid. If meteorites can happen, then anything else can happen, too. C'mon, you're an astronaut, aren't ya? Space is full of mysteries that we can't even fathom. That's why, if the meteorites really did fall on us, anything could've happened."
"Actually, why would you even want to stop the killing game? It's just starting to get fun! It'd be a waste to stop it now."
"You guys are all whack jobs! Is something wrong with your heads?! Oh, don't tell me...you guys aren't confident enough to win the game? Geez, if you're really that much of a weenie, then you might actually lose, y'know? But in my case, I'm full of confidence! I'll win this game, no matter what!"
"Of course, I am! Games are only fun when you play them seriously, right? So, c'mon guys! Let's enjoy this more! It's not often you get to play a killing game, y'know? The game can't continue until there's another victim! So someone, start killing already! If you doooon't, then I'll kill someone instead! Just like I promised, got it!?"
"This fun and vicious killing game is the only thing on my mind! I will drag this world into the pits of terror, using my villanious power to commit evil."
"Thanks! The key to a mutual friendship is understanding each other!"
"Hey, let's trust Miu! We should trust in our friends more anyway!"
"No matter how dangerous it gets, we just have to do it."
"Even without your ridiculous physical strength, as long as you're selfless and courageous... You'd make a terrific bodyguard!"
"There's no point in asking whether we'll find it or not! We just gotta do it!"
"Mm-hm, a true gentleman must always volunteer to do the dirty work." (to Gonta)
"When I find someone I like, I'd do anything to get them to notice me...even strangle them."
"Hey, Kaito! If you're gonna lie, then you might as well do it better! Do you think you can make the killing game more exciting with a crappy lie like that!?"
"One of your dear friends was killed, so it's finally time for you to shiiiine!"
"Nee-heehee... You love to believe, don't you, Kaito? But that belief can turn against you, especially in this killing game, y'know?"
"It's just...I hate lies so much that I tend to suspect others a lot."
"Nee-heehee... A vulgar death fit for a vulgar bitch."
"You're right! You should never speak ill of the dead, no matter how much you hated them! Even if she was a despised, pathetic, dirty cum toilet of a person!"
"Feel free to lie, of course. Exposing lies is the real pleasure of this game, after all."
"If you feel that bad about it, then stop blaming yourself. Help us find the culprit instead. This is the culprit's fault anyway, so pull yourself together and help us, okay?"
"Thank god... I don't like violence. The Ultimate Supreme Leader would rather sneak around!"
"How long are you gonna keep saying that? Trusted people can still kill, y'know. We already saw that a buncha times! So many times...since Kaede.
"People you trust and defend will ultimately betray you. This is a game of suspicion."
"What good would it be if I lied? I don't wanna die either, y'know!"
"Wow, Shuichi! You know your way around this game! Yes, keep up the hard work! The fate of our lives rests in your hands!"
"She lived a life of pride, vulgarity, and secrets! Lying would be a piece of cake for her!"
"We're so close to the truth. We just have to connect the "How" and "What." All the mysterious things that happened have to connect each other somehow..."
"Even if we know all the tricks, it's pretty meaningless if we don't find the culprit. That's how a Class Trial works, after all!"
"More importantly, we gotta solve the mystery! Fighting among friends is a waste of time."
"Which lie are you talking about, Shuichi? I lie a lot, so you'll need to jog my memory."
"Why do you guys hate lies so much? There's only one truth, but endless possibilities for lies, y'know? And some of them are only white lies, or lies to be kind to people... If you deny all of that *just* because it's a lie... Then that means you guys are just terrible at being lied to! Seriously, the worst!"
"If I can't win this game, then I'll make it boring for everyone! That's my revenge!"
"It does matter! There's no need to bring emotions into class trials! All we need is logical thinking... Riiiight, Shuichi?"
"No matter how much you whine about it, you can't change the truth! The culprit who killed Miu is Gonta Gokuhara! This is the truth you all adore so much!"
"If you're planning to expose a liar, then you have to corner them psychologically... Only then will they reveal their true self as a liar—hiding beneath a layer of deceit!"
"Gonta! If you understand, then do it right! Make logical arguments for the truth!"
"You're a true gentleman!? More like a true nincompoop!"
"...Bullying? Yeah, so what? That's what you do in this game, right? You guys blame and gang up on me, but now you're gonna pretend to be a good people?"
"Then just die in a hole for all I care! We wanna live, so stop getting in our way!" (to Kaito)
"Well, I don't care. Finding the culprit is more important in this Class Trial."
"Yup! Gonta is the only person who could've committed the murder! You get it now, right? That's the truth we were all reaching for. The thing you guys wanted so badly! A truth without any lies! Miu Iruma's killer...is Gonta Gokuhara!"
"If he wants to save everyone, he should put everyone out of their misery. In other words...a mercy kill."
"I...know it... A despair that makes you want to die... A despair that makes you want to put everyone out of their misery..."
"Everyone...hates me...so the role of villain is perfect for me... Yeah, I know already! It should've been my responsibility!"
"I wanna enjoy this game filled with suspicion and betrayal from the bottom of my heart!"
"I *am* the supreme leader of evil, so it's obvious my personality would be twisted. The more you suffer, the more I enjoy it. There are people in this world who spread grief and misery for no reason than the thrill of it! And I'm one of those people. Nothing pleases me more than inflicting pain on others!"
"I don't care anymore... But, I will tell you this... The one who will win this game...is me."
Chapter 5:

"She was afraid to...trust you guys. The fear of betrayal overcame her. That's why...she bloodied her hands in this killing game."
"You guys wouldn't lose to the fear of your friends betraying you, right? You showed your determination to fight together, and you ignored my advice from earlier."
"I won't interfere anymore... So please...continue to walk the path you believe in."
"Are you okay? Get it together. It wouldn't be funny if you died here, y'know? ...Your lives are very precious to humanity."
"I know I started this whole thing, but I'm bored now...so, sorry about that, guys. That's why I wanted to reveal the truth. I wanted to see utter despair on your faces."
"This school is mine! I am the king! I, Kokichi Oma, am the mastermind and king of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles! Yes! "This world is mine!"
"But it doesn't matter...we can't lose... This game is pointless...unless you win."
"Nee-heehee... I *am* the Ultimate Supreme Leader. There are no depths I won't sink to. ...Even if I have to sacrifice myself."
"Anyway...this is our chance... Our chance to end this killing game. That's why...you have to kill me, so we can win and ruin this killing game... We'll bring the true mastermind and everyone who's watching... ...We'll bring them down to utter despair! Then everyone who died can rest in peace! Ah-hahahahahaha!!!"
"H-How could a game...that you're forced to play...be fun...? I had to think this game was fun to survive... I had to lie to myself!"
"The bastards who created this game to toy with our lives...and the shits enjoying it... They all...piss me off! Th-That's why...I'm willing to do whatever it takes...to end this game!"
Exisal Kokichi:

"Well, whatever. It's way more interesting to defeat an enemy who plays dirty anyway."
List of Appearances
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Trivia
In his promotional art, Kokichi is shown holding Panta, which is a reference to the soda brand, Fanta.
Kokichi is shown to have feelings for people of the same gender:
He is revealed to have romantic feelings for Shuichi. During his free-time events, he admits that he wanted to "steal Shuichi's heart" and make Shuichi think about him constantly, and he has also claimed multiple times that he thinks about Shuichi all the time. He also calls him his "beloved Saihara-chan" (original Japanese only), and at one point, described him as a person he has grown to like. In Chapter 4, when Shuichi refuses to cooperate with him, he talks about being rejected and says he won't give up making Shuichi turn his eyes on him.
Unlike other characters' Love Suite events, excluding Kirumi's, Shuichi is still a detective in Kokichi's fantasy which is meant to show his "ideal partner", with Shuichi even finding this surprising and emphasizing in this thoughts that he is still himself while Kokichi is still Kokichi in his fantasy.
He appears to have a fear of insects. He describes the sight of them crawling around as "nasty" and more or less jokingly calls Gonta's Research Lab "Hell". He is also heard screaming in terror when Gonta forces him to be closer with a massive amount of bugs. According to Gonta, he then foamed at the mouth and passed out. During a one event in the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, when discussing Gonta and his bugs, Kokichi mentions that he cannot understand why would anyone like "these creepy things".
In the English version, he seems to be skilled in different languages, as during his Free Time Event with Kaede he casually lists Japanese, French and Spanish words for "common sense" along with the English one.
Kokichi appears to love video games and the official art book states he's been playing them his whole life.He also loves tea and his organization even has mandatory tea breaks.
Kokichi is one of the only two people to die before seeing their Research Lab, the other being Rantaro Amami.
Kokichi's whiteboard
In his room, Kokichi has a whiteboard which portrays all of the culprits and victims, the murder methods, his opinion on the living students, as well as a silly self-portrait.
Kokichi's organization, D.I.C.E., could be a reference to the animated television series D.I.C.E. (DNA Integrated Cybernetic Enterprises), in which the main characters are an organization run by children, specifically orphans. The series includes a villainous B-DICE organization, which tries to  DICE by posing as DICE members, and has a clown and poker motif.
In Chapter 5 of the Japanese version, there was an error where Kokichi did not have arrows in his arm and back. It was later fixed in the localization.
Harukawa about to kill Ouma
Momota protecting Ouma

Kokichi Oma Trivia Six FingersIn the early Japanese trailer released on October 24th, 2016, one of Kokichi's sprites was erroneously drawn with six fingers.
At the E3 2017 premiere of the Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony Demo Version, the English translated opening intro included Kokichi Oma's name spelled as "Kokichi Ouma", which goes against typical NIS America localization spelling. NIS America confirmed this was an error that would be rectified by the release of the public demo, and it was later corrected in the full demo footage released by IGN on July 31st, 2017.
Danganronpa V3 Demo Ouma Spelling
Kokichi's English voice actor, Derek Stephen Prince, also voices Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu in the Danganronpa series.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Kokichi the 2nd most popular Danganronpa V3 student out of 16.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Kokichi was voted the most popular student in the electronic poll, and 12th through post cards.
On Christmas 2017, Kazutaka Kodaka tweeted an "in-character" message from Kokichi as celebration.
The tweet translates into this:
Ouma: "Listen, everyone! DICE received presents from Santa-san! This is definitely work of Santa-san! See, I've admired Santa-san since I was a kid. I mean, not many people can spread lies all around the world like that? Jeez, I'm sooo jealous!"
References
↑ During the events of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony, it is revealed the students' talents are fabricated.
↑ Translated List V3 Students' Former High Schools
↑ Facebook Icon Derek Stephen Prince: "I can't stand it anymore!!!! I seriously can't stand it!!! I have been waiting SOOOOOOO long to tell you all about my involvement with Dangan Rompa 3, and I have just been given permission to, so I am happy to announce that I will be playing Kokichi Oma in the upcoming next installment of the game. I know I'm early in changing my profile picture, but I figured it was appropriate given the news." (Image of Post) (30 Aug 2017)
↑ Famitsu scan, November 2nd 2016.
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 5.6 5.7 5.8 Kaibutsushidousha.tumblr.com Official Artbook Character Profile translated by @Kaibutsushidousa on tumblr.
↑ The cast's 'normie' designs.
↑ Kodaka's Interview.
↑ 
↑ 9.0 9.1 Danganronpa V3 Official Blog Day 14.
↑ @Dragii_Bus: French report cards from DRV3 Prologue at Japan Expo
↑ 11.0 11.1 Danganronpa Wiki: Danganronpa V3 Chinese Talents translated by User "St4r dust"
↑ Information by http://amamirantarou.tumblr.com.
↑ @NISAmerica: "The correct spelling is "Oma." This issue was already reported, and we'll be getting it fixed in the demo and full version :)"
↑ MyNavi Poll
↑ DengekiOnline: 【電撃PS】『ニューダンガンロンパV3』ニンキトウヒョウ（人気投票）企画開催中！ (April 27th, 2017) (Japanese)
↑ , translated by Toivotus.

Navigation
 [show] v • e
GAME CHARACTERS
Categories:
Maintenance: Fanslation Removal Needed Characters Danganronpa V3 Characters Male Deceased Murdered
Languages:
Español  Français  Polski  Русский
Recent Wiki Activity
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Monokuma
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Leon Kuwata
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Celestia Ludenberg
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Chiaki Nanami
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago








Search

LogicalShark
1
START A WIKI
 ダンガンロンパ
ダンガンロンパ
1,164
PAGES
ADD
COMMUNITY
FORUM
in:
Maintenance: Fanslation Removal Needed, Characters, Danganronpa V3 Characters, and 4 more
Korekiyo Shinguji
English

 
SHARE
Korekiyo Shinguji	Gallery	Sprites	
FTE Guide Sonia Mini Pixel	This article contains FANSLATIONS and needs to be updated to official translations.	FTE Guide Sonia Mini Pixel


Korekiyo Shinguji
Illustration Sprite
 Illustration
Name
Aliases & Titles
Talent
Characteristics
Gender
Male Male
Height
188cm (JP)
6'2" (ENG)
Weight
65 kg (143 lbs)
Birth Date
♌ July 31
Chest Size
81 cm (32")
Blood Type
O
Likes
Straw ropes
Dislikes
Air conditioning
Family
Killing Game Status
Personal Status
Debuts
Portrayals

"	People are creatures of greed. At times, that inner ugliness is visible. But that, too, is just another aspect of the beauty of humanity.

— Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
"
Korekiyo Shinguji (真宮寺 是清 Shingūji Korekiyo) also known as Kiyo, is a character featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony and a participant of the Killing School Semester.

His title is Ultimate Anthropologist (超高校級の「民俗学者」 chō kōkō kyū no "minzoku gakusha" lit. Super High School Level Anthropologist). He has seen many places and people, and as a result, he has formed his pet theory of "humanity's unlimited beauty."

Contents[hide]
History
Early Life
The Gofer Project
Killing School Semester
Introduction
Attempting the Death Road of Despair
The First and Additional Motive
On The Clock
The First Class Trial
Exploring the Rest of the Academy
The Motive Videos
Gonta's Insect Meet and Greet
The Amazing Himiko's Magic Show
The Second Class Trial
Korekiyo's Research Lab
Angie's Student Council
Korekiyo's Plan
The Seance
The Third Class Trial
Creation and Development
Name
Alternate Fates
Appearance
Personality
Talent
Ultimate Anthropologist
In other languages
Relationships
Older sister
Shuichi Saihara
Rantaro Amami
Angie Yonaga
Tenko Chabashira
Kaede Akamatsu
Maki Harukawa
Miu Iruma
Tsumugi Shirogane
Kokichi Oma
Gonta Gokuhara
Free Time
Presents
Quotes
List of Appearances
Trivia
References
Navigation

Early 
Before Joining Danganronpa
Korekiyo Shinguji was a normal talentless high school boy who participated in the 53rd Season of Danganronpa, a famous worldwide reality show made by Team Danganronpa.

Korekiyo attended Sunset Hill High School (夕陽ヶ丘学園). during his high school days. However, it is unclear if this memory of him is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it was genuine.

Fabricated Past
After he successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Korekiyo's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

According to Korekiyo, he had an older sister who meant the world to him and knew him better than anyone else. She always had terrible health, and ever since Korekiyo was young, she constantly had to go in and out of the hospital. Because of this, she was horribly lonely and never had any friends, and it's implied that Korekiyo spent a lot of time with her. When he was younger, he got interested in cultural anthropology while reading a book with his sister. He was surprised to find out that different people around the world have had similar ideas that turned into popular stories. His sister told him that he should research it if he was curious about it, and that motivated him to become an anthropologist.

He used to have a much simpler school uniform, but his sister thought it didn't suit him and personally tailored the unique uniform he wears now for him as a present. This took a long time due to her poor health, but that only made him treasures the outfit more, considering it his alone and truly unique clothing nobody else in the world has.

In the past, according to Korekiyo, he had an incestuous relationship with his older sister. He believed it was true love and he did not care what the society thought of them. However, at some point, his sister died due to an illness. Left alone and frustrated due to his deep obsession with his sister, he begun to develop an idea of "sending admirable friends" to his sister in the afterlife, since she never had any friends while she was alive. Korekiyo began to target girls that met his requirements as his sister's "friends" by killing them, making him a serial killer, with his goal being 100 victims. He eventually got very close to this number, supposedly killing women during his constant traveling. He also states that he once visited a village where people frequently practiced bondage and became very popular with the village's women.

In order to study folklore, Korekiyo visited various areas and met with many people. From that experience, he formed a pet theory of "humanity's unlimited beauty". At one point, while crossing an entire country, Korekiyo was attacked by local natives who "welcomed" him by tying him up and torturing him with a whip to near death. He then hallucinated an image of his deceased sister, which lead to him to develop a type of split personality known as a tulpa based on her as a coping mechanism. In times of distress, he talked to himself with his sister's persona in an attempt to calm himself.

It is unclear how much, if any, of Korekiyo's past before participating in the 53rd Killing Game was real, and which parts were fabricated by Team Danganronpa. Furthermore, it should be noted that Korekiyo very likely could be quite delusional and some of his claims may not be accurate.

It's known that he wore a mask even as his former self, but his clothes were neat and in good style. It's also been stated that he may have been very popular.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Korekiyo and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Korekiyo was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participant however, Korekiyo and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Korekiyo chose to forget about his ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Korekiyo and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Korekiyo and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, the true Mastermind, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, were actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair, and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78th was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

While Korekiyo did remember about the Ultimate Hunt in Chapter 2 and his and everyone else's funeral in Chapter 3 thanks to the Flashback Light's, he ultimately has no complete recollection of the event, as he was executed before he actually received a complete memory about The Gofer Project by the Flashback Light in Chapter 5.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Korekiyo was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Korekiyo was confused about their current predicament. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived in their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light. Korekiyo and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. He also received the talent and title of Ultimate Anthropologist. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Korekiyo and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester. Students of Fabrication
Korekiyo was later found in the main hall after the iron bars barricading the front entrance had lifted by Kaede and Shuichi, the Ultimate Detective. He introduced himself to the duo as the Ultimate Anthropologist, explaining to them just what Anthropology was. Kaede still didn't quite understand it, but did say that it sounded like a lot of fun. He then went on to explain his theory that human beings are creatures that possess infinite beauty and that he finds even the ugly aspects of humanity to be beautiful. Korekiyo was intrigued by their current situation wondered just what sort of "beauty" he would be able to witness here, stating that people are wonderful, creeping Kaede out. She then asked him if they could go outside through the front doors, but Korekiyo said that she should find the answers to her questions on her own, eerily stating that when their hopes are shattered might be "beautiful" too though Kaede had no idea what he meant by that.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester
Korekiyo would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement. While some of the students were worried, Korekiyo was able to keep calm and composed. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs and Monokuma, the Monokuma Kubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game, much to almost everyone's shock and horror. Korekiyo however, stated that he could sense the despair and malice-like aura around Monokuma. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.

Attempting the Death Road of 
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Korekiyo read the rules on his Monopad. A majority of the group wasn't sure what to do after reading these rules and began to panic and argue. Thanks to Kaede's motivational argument however, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Korekiyo along with everyone else immediately followed Gonta's lead, with hope of finding a way out.

Failed Death Road
Descending the manhole, Korekiyo and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Korekiyo and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi Oma, the Ultimate Supreme Leader, revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Korekiyo included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Korekiyo headed to his assigned dorm room along with the others to get some rest, seeming fairly neutral on the issue, not taking any one side in particular.

The First and Additional 
After the first motive and additional motives are presented, the First Blood Perk and the time limit, Korekiyo continued to remain calm and not worry unlike a majority of the group. It is also highly likely that during these days he evaluated all the girls trapped within the academy to see if they would make suitable "friends" for his deceased sister, still keeping his ulterior motives hidden from the rest of the group. Out of all the girls, there were, Korekiyo concluded that all of them barring Maki Harukawa, the Ultimate Child Caregiver, and Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor, met his standards.

On The 
On the morning of the final day of the time limit, Korekiyo, who was in the cafeteria, witnessed Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ??? and Ryoma Hoshi's, the Ultimate Tennis Pro's, quarrel. Kaede and Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, eventually came in order to try and calm the situation. Korekiyo listened to Ryoma's proposal, that he was willing to be killed for the sake of the others because he was the only one among the group who has no reason to continue to live. Ryoma was convinced by Rantaro to not go through with this idea, stating that he would end the killing game himself. Korekiyo wondered just how he would go about doing something such as that, but Rantaro reassured them not to worry and to not do anything unnecessary before leaving the dining hall.

The rest of the students running into the library That same evening, as the time limit was nearing its end, Korekiyo stayed in the dining hall with Miu, Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, and Tsumugi Shirogane, the Ultimate Cosplayer. He was eating what he thought would be his "last supper", which happened to be a type of pasta that the menu named oddly. After the body discovery announcement was made, Korekiyo was among the last group of students to enter the library and discover Rantaro's corpse. Even then he was able to keep a level head, simply stating "So this ended up happening after all..." as the investigation began.
During the investigation, Korekiyo inspected the classroom next to the stairs to the basement on the first floor along with K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot. When Shuichi and Kaede asked him for his alibi, he told him that he was in the dining hall and that Miu, Kirumi, and Tsumugi could back up his claim. He did tell the duo that Tsumugi did leave briefly to use the restroom, intriguing Kaede and making sure to ask her later. Other than that, Korekiyo didn't do anything else significant during the investigation.

The First Class 
As the Class Trial began, Korekiyo suggested that the culprit knew about the hidden cameras Shuichi and Kaede had set up beforehand in order to commit a "perfect crime", disturbing many people within the group, wondering if this was really an solvable mystery. A little later, when Miu was suspected of having killed Rantaro by Kokichi, Korekiyo's account was able to prove her innocence. He would also bring up that Tsumugi did have an opportunity to be alone when she went to use the restroom, though her supposed alibi was quickly proven by Kaede. As luck would have it however, Korekiyo was secretly right to be suspicious of her. Tsumugi was the mastermind of the killing game and Rantaro's true killer. She made use of the hidden cameras and their intervals to kill him and frame Kaede for the crime. Nevertheless, this truth would be hidden from the entire group for a very long time.

Later on during the trial, when everyone was split on whether or not to vote Shuichi as the culprit due to his silence about the camera intervals, Korekiyo was on the side that accused him, being the first one to find his excuse of "I forgot" pitiful when Shuichi confessed that he didn't mention the camera intervals to Kaede because he thought they wouldn't interfere with his and Kaede's plan. He found that he could relate to Kaede lying in order to protect Shuichi, asking everyone if they wouldn't do anything for the one they loved, hinting at his romantic relationship with his sister. Though this slight speech only helped in making him come off as more creepy to the other students.

After Shuichi was cleared of blame by Kaede and he accused her of being the culprit, wanting to carry on her wish, Korekiyo was at once quite surprised seeing how serious Shuichi was. Kaede was eventually proven to be the "culprit" and executed by Monokuma. After Monokuma stated that he understands the value of human life because ending it wouldn't be nearly as much fun if it wasn't, Korekiyo stated that he had passed "insane" by an incredibly large margin. Later, when Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, slugged Shuichi for not saying anything to Monokuma after Kaede had entrusted him with her wish, Korekiyo stated that it was necessary to be a tad insensitive at times to avoid suicidal thoughts. In the end, Korekiyo was one of the few students who did not seem overly upset about Kaede's death and headed back to his dorm rooms with everyone bar Shuichi and Kaito, who spent a bit of time talking.

Exploring the Rest of the 
The morning of the next day, Korekiyo along with everyone else would gather in the dining hall once again and have a normal, but forced the conversation to try and make themselves not think about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that would become unlocked was the remaining second floor of the academy, which housed the Ultimate Maid's Research Lab. Although the lab was not for him, he could not help but admire the Victorian design. The Gothic style reminded him of a tale he heard once about a gentleman pledging his loyalty to the queen and a modest, but beautiful maid during the 19th century of England. He described it as a "love that bloomed between the light and darkness of social classes". Though Shuichi said that that tale sounded more like a plot of a manga for girls. Korekiyo was curious at this remark and asked him if he is reflected as some love-struck girl in Shuchi's eyes, but the Ultimate Detective had no idea what that was supposed to mean.

Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, eventually told everyone to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight that she and Shuichi had discovered earlier. After everyone had gathered in the gymnasium, Monokuma appeared and told everyone that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Korekiyo included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

Momota losing to Hoshi
In a bonus scene in Chapter 2, Korekiyo, Miu, Shuichi, Kokichi, and Ryoma Hoshi, the Ultimate Tennis Pro, gathered in the casino in hopes of playing a secret game with the medal that Shuichi had received from the Monomono Machine. However, Monokuma shows up and denies this, never stating such a thing in the first place and that the medal Shuichi had was just some knickknack he made for the Monokuma Kubs. Afterwards, Kaito showed up as well, and everyone got roped into a gambling competition. Korekiyo watched as Kaito lost over and over again to Ryoma. When Kaito said that there's no such think as luck, Korekiyo warned him not to relate luck to mere superstition, and explained various aspects of how certain words related to good and bad luck, such as "jinx", and how it is deeply connected to the Japanese concept of "Kotodama", the power of words. He explained that having feelings of fortune or misfortune may affect one's ability to concentrate, saying that words have the power to give or rob one of confidence. When Ryoma began to win once again, Korekiyo commented on how luck alone could not possibly produce results as consistent as these.

The Motive 
During that same night, the Monokuma Kubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. The next morning, Korekiyo joined everyone in the dining hall in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. Despite Ryoma suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. Korekiyo seemingly went along with everyone's decision, not caring if they exchanged their videos or not.

Gonta's Insect Meet and 
Gonta Insect Appreciation Club
The next day, unbeknownst to Korekiyo, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, believed that everyone hated bugs thanks to Kokichi's lies and began kidnapping various students into his Research Lab in order to get them to like bugs. In reality, Kokichi simply wanted to get everyone to watch their motive videos in order make the Killing Game "more interesting". Korekiyo would be among the first students that Gonta detained. Not long after, Shuichi, Angie, and Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, were also brought into Gonta's Research Lab, and the Insect Meet and Greet began. Everyone panicked as insects began to buzz about and wreck havoc. In order to finally end this absurdity, K1-B0 used his recording function in order to convince Gonta that Kokichi had tricked him, much to the former's anger. With that, Korekiyo and everyone else barring Gonta and Kokichi took back their motive videos before immediately leaving Gonta's lab, then heading to bed.

The Amazing Himiko's Magic 
Magic show gone wrong
The very next morning, Korekiyo attended Angie and Himiko's magic show along with everyone else from Gonta's Insect Meet and Great, bar Kokichi. Angie explained the details of Himiko's trick before the Ultimate Magician jumped into the tank, having only a single minute to escape the water tank before the tank would fill with piranha's. Angie closed the curtains, but everyone grew increasingly worried as the timer continued to count down and Himiko had yet to come out. Gonta couldn't take it anymore and stormed the stage, wanting to save Himiko before the piranha's would fill the tank, much to Angie's disappointment. Once the timer ran out, the piranha's dropped into the tank along with some other large object, though Himiko had yet to come out of the tank. Korekiyo merely observed, but Tenko Chabashira, the Ultimate Aikido Master, begged Angie to open the curtains, a plea that she promptly responded to by revealing the tank, however, no one was prepared for what they were about to see. Ryoma's lifeless, handcuffed body drifted within the tank, only having a couple seconds before the piranha's stripped the flesh from his bone, leaving nothing more than a skeleton, the handcuff's, and his belongings behind. With that, the second investigation had begun.

After the body discovery announcement played, and the tank was broken thanks to Gonta, Tenko, and K1-B0, the investigation began with Korekiyo remaining in the gym. When Shuichi and Kaito investigated behind the stage, Korekiyo joined them and they found some rope. The Ultimate Anthropologist was able to tell the exact length of the rope just by looking at it, telling a story of how he once visited a village well known for "using rope" and that upon leaving the village's woman did not want to leave.

The Second Class 
As the Class Trial began, Himiko remained committed to her "magic" act, much to almost everyone else's annoyance, including Korekiyo's. Later, when Kirumi said that she had spent five minutes in the gym to prepare the magic show alone, incriminating herself, Korekiyo proudly exclaimed that her spirit of self-sacrifice was just "too beautiful'.

Later, when everyone was wondering just when Ryoma could have been killed after hearing Maki's testimony, Korekiyo was on the side saying that he was killed in the morning, asking Angie and Himiko if they simply missed the culprit. Himiko replied by saying that they were right in front of the gym and as a result, could not have missed the culprit. As the trial progressed, Shuichi was able to pin Kirumi as the culprit of Ryoma's murder. Once she pleaded with everyone not to vote for her, and everyone speculated on whether or not she really was the culprit, Korekiyo suspected that she might have merely wanted to gain their trust in order to make it easier for her murder.

After all the evidence was pinned on Kirumi and she admitted to her crime. The Monokuma Kubs showed everyone her motive video, revealing that she was the de facto prime minister of all Japan and that her most important person was every citizen of the country. Kirumi refused to give up on life and made a mad, undignified run for it, but was executed nonetheless. Seeing just how far Kirumi was driven just by watching her own motive video, Korekiyo stated that the videos were far more dangerous than they had originally believed them to be. Hearing this, everyone seemed convinced not to watch them.

Korekiyo's Research 
The next morning, at Kokichi's request after unveiling Maki's true talent the night prior, Korekiyo along with everyone else barring Maki paid a visit to the "Ultimate Child Caregiver's Research Lab" only to discover various weapons all throughout the lab, proving that Maki was in fact the Ultimate Assassin, not a child caregiver. Korekiyo calmly stated that the talent of a killer was a threat to the survival of everyone else here, frightening everyone, but Kaito calmed everyone down and said that he would take care of Maki. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy.

One of the places that became unlocked was the eerie fourth floor, which just so happened to contain Korekiyo's Research Lab. He was very interested in what his lab had to offer, more specifically, the dog statue, the golden leaf katana, and the seance book containing a legendary folklore story about the destroyed witch village named Kagonoko that specialized in various curses and dark arts. He stated that not even universities were this well stocked with artifacts and folklore. When Kokichi entered his lab and touched the katana without his permission, Korekiyo grew irritated and threatened to tear out his nerves, though Kokichi was able to confirm that the katana was genuine. Later, when Shuichi asked him about the seance book, Korekiyo asked him if he was interested in communicating with the deceased. Shuichi refused, but Korekiyo pressed further, making the Ultimate Detective think of one person whom he wouldn't mind speaking to one more time. Shuichi still refused however, thinking that the only thing he wanted to say to her is that he escaped from the school and that he was alive with everyone else. Korekiyo respected his decision, saying that the dead should only ever be called upon when the time was right.

Later on, Korekiyo would gather with everyone else in the dining hall in order to inspect the new Flashback Light that Shuichi found. Upon using it, everyone remembered what seemed to be their own funeral, much to the student's confusion. Kaito reassured everyone that there's no way the funeral could be real considering they were all still here and alive. His small speech seemed to work, as everyone perked back up, enjoyed a small meal, then headed back to their dorms.

Angie's Student 
Korekiyo gathered with everyone in the gymnasium the very next morning at the Monokuma Kubs request. The participants were presented with the third motive, the Necronomicon, and were told that they would be able to bring back someone who had died already as a transfer student. While this motive baffled the students, Korekiyo didn't seem to be that shocked by it, stating that this "resurrection ceremony" stems from funeral ceremonies the world over. Despite this, he confidently stated that the dead cannot be resurrected, believing that souls exist, but cannot be brought back to life.

However, Angie seemed to embrace the motive, saying the "corpses" so far may have just been very accurate imitations to make the real people seem dead. Some of the students argued that there's no way that's possible, but Gonta said that more letters were added to the rock in the courtyard, deducing that perhaps the four people who had died are actually alive and wrote that message. Angie praised Gonta and, like Himiko before him, pulled him into a hug. She instilled hers and Atua's authority into him by reassuring him that he's not alone and that Atua is like a gentle grandmother that always keeps him safe, effectively playing off of Gonta's desire for a motherly figure.

Angie then said that Gonta should join the student council, wanting to make Gonta feel needed. Tsumugi, and Himiko both requited this feeling. As a result, the Ultimate Entomologist did not hesitate for even a second if it meant he could be useful to everyone and joined Angie's group. Shuichi however, was confused as to what Angie meant by "student council", but K1-B0 replied by saying that Angie summoned himself, Himiko, Tenko, and Tsumugi last night in order to discuss how to eradicate the Killing Game. As a result, this group of students ended up forming the "Ultimate Academy Student Council" with Angie as their president. The "brainwashed" members listen to Angie completely and without question, stating that her will is Atua's will and as a result, she cannot be wrong. Korekiyo did not seem that surprised by the student council, stating that their current situation possessed all the criteria in order for a cult to form. In reality, Angie was simply trying to take control of everybody and make them dependent on Atua. Angie took the Necronomicon and told everyone else to "leave it to the student council". Korekiyo would be one of the students that ended up opposing Angie's student council.

Korekiyo's 
Despite their extreme methods, Angie's student council had no malicious intent for the group as a whole, only wishing to stop another murder from happening by whatever means necessary. Despite this, it was obvious that Angie was going too far the very next morning when the two split parties came into conflict yet again after finding out that the student council had blocked off the manhole in the boiler room with a large rock. Angie even goes as far as to destroy a Flashback Light from the Monokuma Kubs, wanting to quell any desire to leave no matter the cost. Korekiyo stated that it was blatantly unfair that the student council members were exempt from their own rules, but failed to come to an agreement.

Later on, during that same night, Korekiyo finally began to execute his murder plan, hoping to kill one random girl that met this requirement as his big sister's "friend" in the afterlife. He headed to all three vacant rooms on the fourth floor and began to saw off the crosspieces underneath one of the loose floorboards, coming up with an elaborate plan to murder someone during a seance by making use of a seesaw effect. While he was preparing his murder, Korekiyo was taken by surprise by Angie who stumbled upon him preparing a murder. All she wanted was a candle so that she could burn the Necronomicon and end the ritual, but the very fact that she saw him preparing his seesaw trick sealed her fate.

Angie was about to be attacked
Afraid that Angie might tell everyone else about his plan later, he had no choice but to hit Angie in the back of the head using a wooden floorboard he had removed from the floor, knocking her unconscious. He taped her head wound shut to ensure no blood would leak while he carried her from the empty room to her Research Lab. He grabbed the golden katana from his lab in order to finish the job, plunging the blade into the back of Angie's neck, finally killing her.

Korekiyo then noticed the wax effigies of his deceased classmates that Angie had created and decided to make an ominous scene by hanging all four wax effigies from the ceiling around Angie's corpse. To finally finished the job and give himself an alibi, he made the murder look like a locked-room murder. Korekiyo stabbed the golden sword into Kaede's wax doll (the nearest doll to the back entrance), twisting the rope by turning the doll and left the room as fast as possible. With that, the doll of Kaede turned in the opposite direction and effectively locked the back entrance with the katana stabbed into it, all according to Korekiyo's plan. However, in his haste, he neglected to pick up the piece of duct tape that he had used earlier to stop Angie's blood from leaking and, with the room now completely locked, had no way to retrieve it. He also failed to take the bloodstain on the floorboard that he had used to knock out Angie, which would dry out and link him to Tenko's murder the next day during the trial.

The 
Korekiyo along with everyone else gathers in Angie's research lab following the body discovery announcement. All the student council members mourn her passing, wondering just how and why she was killed. Korekiyo suggests that they perform a seance to commune with Angie's spirit, a suggestion that Tenko, Himiko, Kokichi, and K1-B0 agreed to, completely unaware that the Ultimate Anthropologist had sinister ulterior motives. Despite already committing one murder, he considered it a waste to not use the seesaw trick he had devised and as a result, planned for a second murder.

Spirit Summoning Ritual Preparation (2)
Shuichi would later replace K1-B0 for the seance due to the others wondering if a robot would really work for it, much to the Ultimate Robot's dismay. Korekiyo then says that they would need a spirit medium and that it would work best with a girl. Himiko offered to do it before Tenko offered instead, giving Himiko some words of encouragement before-hand, putting them on good terms once again. Korekiyo was secretly pleased with this, viewing Tenko as a perfect candidate to send to his sister thanks to her earnest and pure heart.

Spirit Summoning Ritual Preparation (3) Korekiyo instructs Tenko to lie in a position similar to child's pose in the center of a circle of salt inscribed with magical symbols. A cage, cloth, and statue are placed on top of her to complete the ritual. Unbeknownst to Tenko, Korekiyo hid a kama, a traditional Japanese weapon similar to a sickle, under the cloth covering the cage that would later be responsible for her death. The students then turned off the lights in the room and sang together as Tenko prayed and attempted to commune with Angie's spirit. However, Korekiyo makes use of the magic circle to find his way to the loose floorboard he had prepared the night prior and stomps on it during the ritual, triggering the seesaw effect and sending Tenko flying off the ground. Her neck is pierced by the kama above the cage, killing her right before everyone's eyes while they were unaware of it. Korekiyo then made his way back to his corner, acting as if nothing had happened. After finishing the song, he continued to play along, asking if the "caged child" was Angie Yonaga. When no answer was given, everyone turned the lights back on in confusion. The participants took away the statue while, Korekiyo, who had placed the cloth, proceeded to remove the murder weapon along with it, only to drop it under the floorboards during the investigation when no one was looking. After everything was taken away, they saw Tenko lying in a pool of her own blood. Korekiyo acted surprised but was more than likely relieved his plan worked out. Himiko, completely shocked, ran over to her and threw the cage off of her, screaming Tenko's name, but it was too late as she had already been killed. Himiko is far too shocked to say anything and everyone else aside from Korekiyo was dumbfounded as the second body discovery announcement plays. During the investigation, Korekiyo continued to play dumb, constantly wondering how the seance could have failed because he stated it was "perfect".
The Third Class 
During the Class Trial, Korekiyo took control of the conversations more-so than before, wanting to steer everyone away from the truth. The group had to put Angie's murder to the side for a bit of time in order to discuss Tenko's murder at Himiko's request. Eventually, Shuichi was able to pin Korekiyo as Tenko's killer due to variables such as the loose floorboard and the magic circle having to be defined beforehand. After some arguing, Korkeiyo acknowledges the claim, saying that Tenko's death ultimately didn't matter because the true culprit that they needed to search for was the culprit behind Angie's murder, much to Himiko's annoyance. However, Korekiyo was unaware that the clues left behind in Angie's murder, the piece of bloody duct tape and the dried blood on the loose floorboard in the seance room would be key pieces of evidence linking both murders together and as a result, pinning him as the culprit of both murders, not just Tenko's. As a result, Korekiyo became increasingly more erratic than usual, causing his other personality, his older sister, to appear, which he would use to calm himself down. Regardless of Korekiyo's crazed, constant rebuttals, however, he finally admits to his crime.

Shuichi Saihara identified Korekiyo Shinguji as the culprit Following the trial conclusion, Korekiyo confessed that he murdered for his beloved sister. He revealed himself as a serial killer whose goal was to grant his deceased sister one-hundred female friends in the afterlife and that he was very close to that number. He claimed that every girl in the school barring Miu, and Maki had the potential to become "friends" for his sister. Korekiyo stated that Tenko's earnest and pure heart made her the perfect candidate to send to his sister and wondered how Himiko couldn't have liked her. Himiko however, could not accept this explanation, angrily asking why Tenko and Angie had to die for something so unfair. Korekiyo replied that there is no such thing as a death that can be accepted and wondered how they all would live a life that faced death before being dragged to his execution.
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 3 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 3 Execution

Creation and 
TRIVIA Korekiyo Shinguji Design Inspiration from the DICE song music video by hide
According to the series creator, Kazutaka Kodaka, Korekiyo's character setting is a combination of multiple sorts of imagery, including underground culture, anthropology, archaic, and visual kei. His design seems to strongly draw inspiration from a character from Japanese musician hide's music video for his song Dice. This was most likely intentional as Kodaka, is a fan of hide's music and has confirmed that Korekiyo's appearance is partially based on visual kei bands.His name is also a vivid reminder of history and anthropology, and even his sprite poses were made with various things in mind, but above all, poses from visual kei bands. His mask was Rui Komatsuzaki's idea and Kodaka was the one who decided to make it relevant to the story.

The Chapter 3 of the game was meant to feel like a Japanese horror movie, so Kodaka created an Ultimate Anthropologist to fill the role of a character familiar with nursery songs. To make the character more unique, Kodaka planned to give Korekiyo gobis (Japanese ending particles) written in katakana, but was unsure of it because it sounded very overblown. However, the way of speech ended up working great with Kenichi Suzumura's voice performance. Kodaka also prepared a plenty of creepy character moments for Korekiyo, but the staff kept telling him that he was already creepy enough with only the main story parts, and thus some of the creepiness was toned down. Kodaka thought that maybe he just loved that kind of underground story character too much, and he thought Korekiyo would be well-received among the fans of Suehiro Maruo's manga, though at the time the official art book was made he had yet to see any comment about it.

Korekiyo's character moments were centered around forbidden love, similar to Shōwa period's underground movies and stage plays. He put some meaningful lines in the first half of the script as foreshadowing. In the art book's final comments, Korekiyo is stated to be the most aesthetic boy in the cast and has a remarkable beauty that is hard to see through his creepy smile. "If only he had a more approachable personality".


His first kanji name 是清 korekiyo translated as "just and pure". Korekiyo's name is ironic because the meaning is contrary to his true self. His last name kanji is composed of the characters 真 - meaning "true", 宮 - meaning "palace" and 寺 - meaning "temple".

Interestingly, the word 宮 miya, aside from its literal meaning, is also used to refer to (usually larger and/or more significant) Shinto shrines, while the word 寺 tera is reserved for Buddhist temples. Considering how Shintoism and Buddhism are practiced side by side in Japan, and how Japanese folk culture draws heavily from both faiths, Korekiyo's last name could be said to imply at his field of expertise.

Alternate 

Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Korekiyo Shinguuji
Korekiyo is a tall, slim student with rather pale skin and long black hair. His hair is stated to follow an archaic image of beauty and it "puts his female colleagues to shame". He has narrowed yellow eyes, and his mouth is covered by a black mask, covering his mouth and neck, with a zipper where his mouth would be, giving him an unsettling and mysterious appearance. He wears the mask wherever he goes, no matter where he goes, and he even owns different masks for eating, showering, and other daily activities.

He wears a dark green military-style uniform with knee-high black boots, a zipper lining the front and two straps over it. The uniform consists of a white button-up underneath it, a dark green button-up, a red armband around his left arm from his previous school, Sunset Hills High School, a green military regulation cap with his former school's insignia on the top, and a decorative chain dangling from it. In his Free Time events, he states that his sister tailored his uniform for him while she was sick. He wears what appears to be some kind of silver locket around his neck. Both of his hands are completely covered in bandages, although it's likely he's not even injured and that this is actually related to sorcery.

In the prologue, he wears the uniform of his original high school. He dons a black, unbuttoned blazer with golden cuffs and a grey knitted vest with a v-neck. He doesn't wear a hat like in his anthropologist uniform, and his hands are completely uncovered. He wears grey slacks and brown school shoes. He still wears a face mask, although lacking its zipper.


Korekiyo is an aloof and somewhat creepy person, but he is also very cool-headed and intelligent.He has the experience of having met to a huge variety of human beings for his cultural anthropology research and because of that, he can keep himself composed even under the confinement circumstances and believes in facing things with calm and rational approach rather than an emotional one.He has a vast knowledge of different cultures and ponders different subjects in deep and complex manner, with him occasionally starting lengthy anthropology speeches even though nobody asked. He is greatly interested in topics he does not necessarily agree with as well, as he states he does not believe in any gods, but he finds them interesting from the point of view of studying the human nature and cultures. However, he does believe in ghosts and souls, and has a strong interest in communication with the dead and death in general.

Thanks to all of his knowledge, he has formed a pet theory of "humanity's unlimited beauty" and he has a deep interest in it. He believes all human beings are great, and that even their ugly sides are extremely beautiful and beauty can be created from hardship. During the killing game, he observes other students with great interest in seeing what kind of beauty they will display as humans under such circumstances, seemingly not caring about their safety. It has been stated that Korekiyo is so interested in anthropology that it sometimes seems like he is not as interested in the currently living people. His morals are stated to be a bit off and he can say unsettling things rather openly, like randomly mentioning that Gonta could use his immense strength to crush a child's skull easily. In Chapter 1, he openly states he has no problem with killing and wonders why the others do, stating that killing is perceived as wrong only because of laws made by humans and such laws do not exist in the killing game. He is aware that his appearance and behavior cause him to come across as a potential murderer, but he does not appear to care what other people think of him. He claims the others should not fear him as a potential murderer, as he merely wishes to observe.

Korekiyo usually speaks in calm and polite manner, but he nevertheless comes across rather off and makes others uncomfortable due to his strange and sometimes morbid thinking. While he is most of the time very collected, with his voice staying the same tone, he occasionally gets very excited about some topics and his voice turns notably more high-pitched. He also tends to stay calmer than the others during bad situations, as for him it's an opportunity to observe, though even his spirit begins to break during the Death Road of Despair and Gonta's Insect Meet and Greet. In Chapter 3, there is also a moment when his tone changes to more a panicky one when Kokichi touches his ancient katana without permission and he fears it might get damaged. He then disturbingly threatens to tear out all of Kokichi's nerves in anger, though his voice still remains creepily calm. In general, he tends to find noisy and vulgar people annoying, often asking them to be quiet. Furthermore, he also has a unique and somewhat creepy laugh, which sounds like "kehehehe". In the original Japanese, "kukuku" is his unique laugh's sound.

As another strange trait, he is quite fixated on keeping his mask on. During his free time events, he claims he has a different mask for different activities, like eating, bathing, sleeping and exercising. However, they all appear exactly the same and do not seem to have any kind of hole in them, yet he is somehow capable of eating and drinking. According to Korekiyo, he takes his mask off only in front of people his sister deems trustworthy. He occasionally speaks on behalf of his sister, for example, by telling someone that his sister is pleased with them or that she doesn't trust them yet. The other students either do not understand what he is talking about or do not notice it. It's later revealed that his older sister is actually deceased and that he is a serial killer whose goal is to kill a hundred women he considers "pure", believing that they will become "admirable friends" for his sister in the afterlife. After suffering from traumatic torture and a near-death experience in the past, he developed a female split personality, or tulpa, based on his sister, which serves as a coping mechanism against feelings of exceptional distress. While normally very calm, stress can cause him to have a panic attack, rendering him hyperventilating and unable to talk properly. The sister persona acts reassuring towards him, but also gives orders which Korekiyo seems to obey without any questions. The persona also seems to dislike other people in passive-aggressive and condescending manner, referring to the other students as "ignorant children" and "such a sorry lot".

Korekiyo is obsessed with his sister and claims to be deeply in love with her, with her appearing to be the only person he truly cares about, and many of his mannerisms like his hair and clothing being inspired by her. He is also noted to wake up two hours before the morning announcement and spends an entire hour getting carefully dressed with no hurry. Because of these traits, he is perceived as very effeminate by the other students, and is occasionally mocked by Kaito. Korekiyo even claims that he and his sister were in an incestuous relationship, and because of this he only kills women, as he jealously refuses to let other men close to her even if he deems them good people. In his Love Suite event, it's implied that he is willing to have physical relationships with other people "out of curiosity", even if it's not consensual, but he states he would never love them as he considers his sister his only true love. Unlike most students in the series, he apparently has lots of experience with sexual relationships, as he has described himself as being very popular with local women in a village which commonly practiced bondage. He is sadomasochistic, enjoying the pain of others because he considers the raw emotions beautiful, and enjoying his own suffering because he believes it makes him closely connected to his deceased sister. However, he is also shown to be very romantic and strongly believes in the "power of love", which can make even the impossible possible. He is very fond of romance and love stories, especially ones centered around forbidden love. Even though he is apparently willing to have strictly physical relationships with other people, during the bonus mode Love Across the Universe he refuses to look at pornography, because he has "already given his heart to someone".

After he is revealed to be the culprit during the third trial, Korekiyo feels no guilt for his terrible actions and he seems to genuinely and unironically consider the other students his friends, not seeing any contradictions between this and his own actions. This is yet another trait that indicates that he is unable to truly understand and care about how other people feel, though he is also quite skilled at noticing other people's intentions and emotions due to keenly observing other people for years. He panicked at first, but slightly hesitantly calmed down after his sister ordered him and told him that he should accept his defeat. In the end, he does not even seem to mind his own death that much, as it's a way for him to finally reunite with his sister. Among his last words, he mentions that death is never acceptable for humans and the living must find find a reason to accept it whenever it happens, no matter how forced, explaining why so many cultures have funeral rituals and rumors about resurrecting the dead. He says that he came to the conclusion that the way you come to terms with death also determines how you live, all of this indicating that he is in some ways aware that all he has done is just a coping mechanism against his sister's death. He promises to look over his "friends" as a ghost, and creepily states that he'll be watching how they will face the deaths of their friends. Though at first content with his execution, as he believes he will be with his sister once again, he is lastly seen reacting with utter horror and disbelief as both his sister and Monokuma banish his spirit to the afterlife.


Ultimate 
Korekiyo's talent as the Ultimate Anthropologist is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Korekiyo traveled around the world as an anthropologist in the past.

Korekiyo is an anthropologist, to be precise, a cultural anthropologist that researches customs, legends, folklore, poetry, etc. His particular field of study is culture and ethical customs whose historical origins have yet to be made clear, like shichigosan or setsubun. He tries to inspect and elucidate those kinds of traditional customs from a rational perspective and states that cultural anthropology is like a science that tries to observe humanity itself.

Korekiyo is very knowledgeable about folklore and customs across the world, as he stated that he had done a lot of field trip by traveling around the nation to study various culture, tradition, and custom in various places. As shown in his Free Time Events, he is very familiar with folklore from Indonesia (Hainuwele) and Greece (Medusa), as well as many folklore from his home country Japan. Myths, folklore, and legends are all inform anthropology, that is the reason why he extensively studies them as an anthropologist. He studies nursery rhymes, lullabies, and traditions and events expressed in song as well.

In his opinion, fieldwork is very important to anthropology. Hearing legends recounted firsthand, recording tools or lifestyles are examples why it is very important to do a fieldwork. Because culture is constantly changing, as an anthropologist, Korekiyo said that he must keep the present in mind while he learns about past customs.

He is shown to be a great teacher and story teller. Korekiyo managed to pique Shuichi's interest in learning a lot of stuff related to anthropology after he got involved in extensive discussions with the Ultimate Anthropologist. In his Fifth Free Time Events with Shuichi, the two of them promise to do a fieldwork together someday, and Korekiyo is pleased to make the Ultimate Detective as his first disciple.

In other 
Korekiyo's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Anthropologist
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「民俗学者」	Super High School Level Anthropologist
Français Anthropologue Ultime	Ultimate Anthropologist
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的民俗學家	Super High School Level Anthropologist
中文 超高中级的民俗学家	Super High School Level Anthropologist

Family:
Older 
According to Korekiyo, his sister, a sickly girl, knew him better than anyone else and she meant the world to him. As children, when she was confined to the hospital, he claims to have stayed with and read to her, sparking his initial interest in anthropology as a subject, and he consequently s her for making him the person he is present. Since she was so lonely and never made any friends due to her state, it's implied that Korekiyo spent lots of time with her.

Korekiyo's current uniform was handmade for him by his sister, who thought his old one was ill-suited to him. Her poor health made this a time-consuming effort, and so he treasures it, considering it truly one-of-a-kind. The mask he constantly wears might also be related to her sickly state.

He became obsessed with his sister and, according to him, their relationship eventually became incestuous. He claims he doesn't care what other people think and believed it was true love. After his sister died, he developed the idea of "sending admirable friends" to her in the afterlife. He began to target and murder girls that met his requirements as his sister's "friends", with his ultimate goal being 100 victims.

During his fieldwork, he was attacked and tortured by locals to near death, causing him to hallucinate seeing his sister. This led to him to develop a split personality or a tulpa based on her as a coping mechanism. In times of distress, he talked to himself in his sister's persona in an attempt to calm himself. The sister persona acted reassuring towards him, calling him "dear Korekiyo", but also appeared quite passive aggressive and Korekiyo obeyed any of her orders without questions. This might imply that she may have been manipulative and possibly abusive towards Korekiyo, as he was the only one who spent time with her and she could rely on when she was alive. It's also noteworthy that she apparently decided the kind of clothing he would wear, as she didn't want him to wear clothes that didn't suit him.

Even though he claims they were very close, his sister's spirit turned against him during his execution and worked together with Monokuma to banish his spirit with salt. According to Kazutaka Kodaka, it's ambiguous whether she was the real deal or controlled by Monokuma. Assuming she was real, the exorcism was her way of expressing her anger for her brother who killed people for her sake and claimed things about her feelings. Regardless of whether she was real or not, summoning the person most dear to Korekiyo was Monokuma's pestering.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Shuichi 
Korekiyo considers Shuichi a good guy but doesn't want him nor any other male to become friends with his sister. During the events of Korekiyo's Free Time Events, he would teach Shuichi any kind of knowledge and questions that he is curious about passionately such as differences among anthropology, history, and archaeology. The mysterious upbringing of Korekiyo intrigued Shuichi's curiosity as well, as he observed eagerly whether Korekiyo will take his mask off when he is eating and even asking him a myth that resonates with him. In Korekiyo's last Free Time Event, Shuichi who fully trusted him happily agreed with him to join on a field trip with him after they escaped the Killing Game as his first disciple.

As the Killing Game continues, Shuichi continues to find Korekiyo a bit creepy, but has more trust in him. In Chapter 3, Korekiyo offered his help to let Shuichi communicate with Kaede's spirit, but he politely turned him down as he said that the only thing he wanted to say for the fallen victims is that he and the others finally manage to survive. He was also shown to be very creeped out about the way Korekiyo was talking about the rituals and the dead, and wanted to exit the conversation quickly. After Korekiyo was executed by Monokuma for his wrongdoing for killing Angie and Tenko, Shuichi has conflicted feelings about him. He still trusted him as a friend, yet he doubted Korekiyo would stop killing more victims for his sister even after they survive.

During his Love Suite fantasy event, Korekiyo has accepted to spend a night with Shuichi, though he makes it clear that there would never be love between them. In Korekiyo's fantasy, his partner requested to try BDSM with him, but Shuichi is unaware of this and he feels uncomfortable around Korekiyo, thinking that he is a bit scared of him, but is nevertheless curious about his fantasy. Korekiyo asks if Shuichi is afraid and gives him a permission to run. He claims it will be scary only for the first time and pulls out rope from under the bed, which immediately causes Shuichi to attempt escaping. However, Korekiyo catches his hand and pushes him on the bed, stating that he never said he wouldn't stop Shuichi if he ran. Korekiyo expresses interest in the beauty Shuichi will show, saying he will teach him thoroughly and make him feel the kind of pleasure he has never felt before. Shuichi is afraid of the potentially dangerous situation and can only gulp as he's unable to escape, but then his mind begins to turn blank and he starts to relax, and it's heavily implied that Korekiyo got what he wanted in the end. When Shuichi wakes up in his own bed the next morning, he wonders if it was just a dream, though he still feels quite sore.

During Korekiyo's graduation event in the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Korekiyo says that he wants to travel with Shuichi and then introduce him to his sister because he is such a good friend, even though he was originally against the idea and doesn't normally allow any males close to her. Shuichi is confused with him talking about his "lover" and "sister", but he now has an unwavering trust in Korekiyo, unaware of the danger the other possesses.

Rantaro 
During Chapter 1, Rantaro had a good impression of Korekiyo and considers him interesting, appearing to be the only one who has a positive view on Korekiyo.

During his first Free Time Event with Kaede, Rantaro tells her that Korekiyo has a strong personality, but if she takes the time to speak with him she'll understand him. In addition, he emphasizes that Korekiyo is a calm person who seems to be a clever type.

In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, it's shown that Rantaro and Korekiyo are very good friends. They share a great interest in traveling and they both have a close relationship with their sister, seemingly seeing each other briefly whenever they're both in the school area and tell each other where they've been lately. However, it's also implied that Korekiyo has taken interest in meeting Rantaro's sisters in order to make them his sister's "friends", meaning murdering them.

Angie 
Korekiyo was among the students who understood that Angie's Student Council was based on brainwashing, and had no interest in joining them regardless as he stated he does not believe in gods. Nevertheless, Korekiyo considered Angie an admirable friend for his sister and murdered her after she witnessed his other murder plans. During the trial, when he was suspected and begun to panic, he appeared annoyed and asked how long they're going to bring that up after Himiko once again mentioned Atua.

During the non-canonical bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, Angie had a very unusual reaction after Korekiyo stated that he is interested in Atua solely from critical and anthropological point of view. Angie then told him that Atua's business hours are closed for the day, clearly not wishing to have a follower who isn't actually religious. However, Angie then returned to her usual passive aggressive cheerfulness and reminded Korekiyo that he should pray in order to not face judgement.

Tenko 
Tenko refers to Korekiyo as a weird creep and doesn't like it whenever he tries to speak in a creepy way because of her hatred towards males.

Even though she hates males so much, Korekiyo thought that Tenko is fit to become his older sister's "friend" in the afterlife. He was touched by her willingness to protect Himiko by joining Angie's Student Council and later offering to be part of the ritual in Himiko's place.

It's also possible that with her wariness towards men, Korekiyo believed she would keep other men away from his sister.

Kaede 
During his free-time events, Korekiyo tells Kaede about his sister, to the point that she more or less jokingly asks him if he is into incest. He seems to get slightly angered by this and simple answers that incest is regrettable. Kaede apologizes and tells him she didn't mean it in a bad way, which quickly calms him down.

Korekiyo likes Kaede and her optimistic nature very much and asks her to be his sister's friend. She agrees, and Korekiyo leaves to plan a good "method" for them to meet. He had stated to the others how he had planned to kill Kaede from the beginning but soon canceled since Kaede was executed in Chapter 1.

Kaede thinks Korekiyo is a bit creepy but assumes he is a nice person who cares about his sister. However, she is a bit unsure about it, as she doesn't know him well. She also assumes that Korekiyo is "so girly" because of his sister's influence.

Maki 
Maki is one of the few female students who does not meet Korekiyo's criteria as his sister's "admirable friend" and thus she is not a potential murder victim for him. Due to her being an assassin and generally very unsocial, Korekiyo thinks she doesn't believe in "the power of love".

Miu 
Miu is one of the few female students who does not meet Korekiyo's criteria as his sister's "admirable friend" and thus she is not a potential murder victim for him.

Tsumugi 
In chapter 1, Korekiyo was the only one who notices that Tsumugi strangely spent a long time in the women's restroom. Because of this, others do not believe him and think of him as a gross creep. However, much later in the game, her alibi was soon revealed to be an extremely important clue to reveal Tsumugi's identity as the mastermind.

Kokichi 
Kokichi gets on Korekiyo's nerves with his behavior. When he attempts to touch Korekiyo's katana without his permission while they're inside his Research Lab, Korekiyo disturbingly threatens to tear out all of his nerves, which seems to frighten Kokichi.

Gonta 
Even though both of them don't interact much in the game, their relationship was revealed in the Anthology manga. Gonta saves Korekiyo's life after accidentally slipped and was about to fall, however, Gonta stepped in quick to save him. Both of them, however, ended up being tangled in their hair. Because Korekiyo was because couldn't move much, the students thought this was one way for someone to not kill someone for her sister. Gonta staunchly defended Korekiyo after he explained he would not kill someone to see his sister. Both of them slept together in the Hotel Kumasutra to spend the nighttime there. Gonta apologized to Korekiyo for having to spend the day with him and asked if Korekiyo liked bugs now. Korekiyo disagreed but said he was interested in how bugs impacted people's lives, and Korekiyo also thanked Gonta for understanding he wouldn't kill someone to escape the school just to see his sister.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Korekiyo Shinguji, Hotel Kumasutra#Korekiyo Shinguji

Korekiyo Pixel Head Icon
Korekiyo Shinguji
Loves:	039. Story of Tokono, 071. Dancing Haniwa, 088. Monkey's Paw, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	004. Cleopatra's Pearl Cocktail, 009. Astro Cake, 021. Bondage Boots, 028. Nail Brush, 032. Cufflinks, 035. Book of the Blackened, 036. Feelings of Ham, 037. Travel Journal, 038. Dreams Come True ☆ Spell Book, 049. Hand Mirror, 051. Japanese Doll Wig, 053. Sewing Kit, 055. Tattered Music Score, 064. Sketchbook, 067. Proxilingual Device, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 083. Earnest Compass, 084. Semazen Doll, 085. Weathercock of Barcelous, 086. Pillow of Admiration, 087. 46 Moves of the Killing Game, 106. Dangan Werewolf, 109. Cosmic Blanket

DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"You wonder, "Who is this?" Yes... I shall make that clear first. My name is Korekiyo Shinguji... I am called the Ultimate Anthropologist."
"Anthropology... studies customs legends, folk tales, songs, and much more. There may even be customs in your daily life, the origins of which you do not know. For example... certain aspects of birthday or new year celebrations. Anthropology sheds light on traditions and customs such as these through rigorous analysis. It is a study that examines the thought behind culture, faith, and customs."
"I believe... that human beings are creatures who possess infinite beauty."
"I find all aspects of humanity, even the ugly parts, to be beautiful. Our present situation is rather... intriguing. What beauty will I be able to witness here?"
"Kehe... Kehehehe... People are wonderful..."
"As long as there is room for debate, it is rash to decide upon the culprit."
"You wished to protect Makoto... There is beauty in such a wish... But Kaede...your lie is far too fragile and fleeting to protect anyone."
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"You should find the answers to such questions on your own...The moment your hopes are shattered...That, too...may be beautiful..."
"Kehehe...risking our lives for some silly game is absurd."
Chapter 1:

"Kehehe...what wonderful strength. You could likely crush a child's skull with ease."
"Aaah, humanity is *truly* wonderful. The way you all confront adversity is beautiful."
"We've no time to be indecisive. We are being urged to make a decision...To die fighting...Or die from the time limit."
"Hmmm...so everyone feels that killing is wrong...But why is that?. Of course I know it to be against the law. But laws are simple rules people decided upon. This is a space removed from those rules. Therefore, we've no need to follow them."
"We are as guinea pigs upon a lab table...We cannot be picky about our means of survival."
"Kehehe...I only wish to observe the beauty of humanity and witness the depths of its sins. So you've no need to fear me."
"A corpse is not simply a dead person. That is just an assumption made by the living. Yes! By coming face to face with the corpse, you will learn a great many things!"
Chapter 2:

"Our cooperation is the number one factor in our suffering, is it? Kehehe... How, I wonder, will this turn out...? I will observe with great interest..."
"Kehehe... Faith as intense as this can be quite terrifying."
"I cannot ignore that comment. Do not relegate luck to the realm of superstition."
"Yes...and words have the power to grant or rob someone of such confidence. Words are powerful. Truth or lies may both be fired as powerfully as a bullet from a gun."
"He's been reduced such that he can be carried in one hand... How fleeting and fragile life is..."
"Your disingenuous tears mark you as the liar right now..."
"Kehehe... Himiko is committed to her act. But those who deal in dreams are oft liars."
"Aah! Beautiful! Your spirit of self-sacrifice is just too beautiful!"
"Wanting to believe in someone is a beautiful act, yes... However, it is a sentiment that has no place in a Class Trial."
"Yes... if his lie leads us to the wrong culprit, he will join us in eternal sleep. Unless he wishes for death, we should be able to believe him."
"Personally, I find this culprit frighteningly thorough. Such a bold, beautiful plan! I never even imagined there was a ropeway! Aaah! Respect begins to bloom in my heart for this wonderfully cruel culprit."
"Kehehe... There is such absolute beauty in trying to fight against the truth."
"Hearing you speak of "everyone's sake" is the least believable lie I've heard yet..."
Chapter 3:

"Every part of every human being—even their ugly sides—is beautiful. There is no limit to beauty."
"Kirumi... She, too, had her own exceptional beauty. A crime that was bold, yet calculated... A battle against the truth... Brutally killing others for her beliefs... Unfeelingly sacrificing the few for the many... And her attachment to life and determination to live! Her attempt to escape was so very ugly! It was pathetic! Pitiful! Wretched! But it was beautiful! I had never before seen such beauty in a human being before!"
"Kehehe... Merely a jest. Yes, this world is full of jests."
"It's so wonderful, my face contorts with glee. Not even university labs are so well-stocked. Having all this to myself gives me some complicated feelings, as I am a researcher." (about the Ultimate Anthroplogist's Research Lab)
"Kokichi...that is an extremely precious relic. Please do not treat it so lightly or... ...I will tear out your nerves."
"Now, now... You musn't dismiss it as simply the occult... Some matters you refer to as the occult are of the utmost importance to anthropology. Dismissing things you don't understand as the occult is a defilement to all cultures, yes?"
"Kehehe...that determination is beautiful. Perhaps you are correct. Calling on the dead out of curiosity would only be a blasphemy. One must call on them...only at the appropriate time."
"Disbelief due to a lack of scientific merit...is simply the hubris of a scientific society."
"Dead flesh cannot be restored, just as broken glass cannot be mended..."
"No, I have no interest in gods. But I have great interest in their creators... Humans are the ones who created gods...and I am very interested in humanity. I wish to know the causes and reasons why human beings create gods. In that sense, this school is more interesting. Because it is during times of great crisis that human create gods... Kehehe... Maybe a god shall be created here as well."
"The fear of a death that cannot be avoided... Cults are born from a desire to escape that."
"Even so, we cannot defy her right now. Extreme faith is frightening, indeed."
"Kehehe... We need to use all our effort to discover the culprit, lest our lives be lost."
"Do not let your emotions hasten your judgment. There may be two killers."
"The true terror of class trials is that you shouldn't believe everything said."
"So this is how each blackened must have felt. What an intriguing experience this is."
"Kehehe... Not yet. Nothing is clear at all. It's full of doubts! Of mysteries! Of a dense, impenetrable fog! Nothing is clear at all!!!"
"Kehehe... No matter how loudly you protest, this is a trivial matter... I will never acknowledge your allegations. Not a single one of them. I will only acknowledge facts, true events. I won't acknowledge fiction, mystery. I won't acknowledge...your deductions or guesses."
"Because we're friends, I'll tell you... I never once believed in the ritual. I would never kill someone over such a silly thing as that."
"Yes, we vowed an endless love to each other...forever bound by fate. None can come between us. We are bound by an intense love... No matter what anyone says."
"If you asked I did it to escape this place, my answer would be... "No." Because I have no need to escape this place. The one I love...is inside."
"The fact that we were siblings...meant nothing to us. They called it "forbidden love," but none could stop the love we shared..."
"Her noble, earnest heart made her a perfect friend for Sister."
"Yes! She stood up against the darkness of school all by herself! All for her beloved friend! I was so touched by that! Wonderful! She was a perfect friend for Sister!"
"I wanted to kill for Sister! I cannot deny that overpowering feeling!"
"Death only changes a person's form. The soul lives on as a ghost."
"Kehehe... The nature of this killing game is yet shrouded in mystery... But my role in it is over. I have finished my explanation to you, friends."
"Like I said, there's no such thing as a death that can be accepted. Why do you think so many different cultures have funeral rites? Why do you think rumors of ways to resurrect the dead never cease? The living must find a reason, however forced, to accept death when it happens. How you come to terms with death also determines how you live, yes? That was the answer I reached. How about you? How will you live a life that faces death?"
"I will watch over you all as a ghost! As your friend, I will watch over you! Kehehe... I'll be watching to see how you face the death of your friends. I'll be watching...forever and ever..."
As his Sister's tulpa form:

"Sweet Korekiyo, calm yourself... Their words are all hollow. There is no meaning to any of them... You must teach these ignorant children a lesson."
"Calm yourself, Korekiyo. You mustn't raise your voice. You mustn't stutter. You mustn't lose composure. You mustn't become flustered. You mustn't waver. Look at their horrid faces. This sorry lot is not worth agonizing over."
"Come on, apologize. Apologize, apologize. Apologize apologize apologize apologize."
"Sweet Korekiyo, there are times when it's necessary to admit defeat."
"That's wonderful, Korekiyo. Your love made the impossible, possible."
"Hmhmhm... What a sad girl who can't even believe in the power of love..."
"Korekiyo, you're such a thoughtful little brother. But it was bad to get greedy."
"That's right. Even though I'm a ghost now, I am always by Korekiyo's side."
"Yes... From now on, no one will try to stop us. We can be together without having to hide our love from others..."
"It won't be just me and Korekiyo... All those who died will be watching."
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

In the official art book, Korekiyo is stated to strongly dislike Cleansing Air Freshener and gets furious whenever someone uses it, because it apparently repels ghosts and paranormal entities due to the holy water mixed in. This seems to explain his dislike for air conditioning.
His favorite myth is the Medusa, knowing her original status as a mother goddess who was later depicted as a hideous monster, and believing that this is because developed human society begun to think about overcoming nature instead of being dependent of nature goddesses. He also likes the story because it shows that people can't run away from death no matter how much they overcome the nature.
Korekiyo has romantic feelings exclusively for his sister and claims they were in a relationship, but this is not confirmed and could be a delusion caused by his mental state. It's also possible that all of these memories were created by Team Danganronpa and his real relationship with his sister, if he even has one, could be very different.
Korekiyo is the second character in the series to have a split personality, the first being Toko Fukawa. Unlike her however, his split personality is more like a tulpa than a multiple personality disorder. He also only kills women, which is somewhat similar to Genocide Jack, who only kills men.
Korekiyo and Genocide Jack's similarities are acknowledged during a one scene in the non-canon bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, with neither being the other's "type", and both appearing to be vaguely aware of what the other does to the people they are interested in.
Korekiyo has shown some similarities to Norman Bates from Psycho, including being in love with a female family member and having a split personality based on said female family member.
He appears to be sadomasochistic and has a strong liking of BDSM, explaining why he likes straw rope. Even his mask resembles a bondage hood, or a Gimp mask.
He is the only blackened who's called out by Monokuma for his crimes and whose ghost is shown in the execution.
His Class Trial portrait shows fumes instead of "X", possibly referring to his execution and his background as an anthropologist.
Korekiyo's murders bear some similarities to Mikan's murders in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair: both cases are double murders, occur during the third chapter of the game, and are conducted as a result of an obsessive romantic relationship.
While Mikan begs the protagonist to forgive them after being convicted, Korekiyo conversely demands the protagonist to apologize.
Korekiyo is implied to have attraction to people of the same gender. In his Love Suite event, he states that all human beings are "extremely beautiful" and he is willing to have strictly physical relationships with other people regardless of gender. He claims he does this "out of curiosity" and the desire to see what kind of beauty his partners will show.
Korekiyo's Japanese voice actor, Kenichi Suzumura, is married to Maki Harukawa's voice actress Maaya Sakamoto.
Korekiyo shares his English voice actor, Todd Haberkorn, with Teruteru Hanamura in Danganronpa series.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Korekiyo the 13th most popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Korekiyo was voted the 7th most popular student in the electronic poll, and the least popular through post cards.

Maki Harukawa was a normal talentless high school girl who participated in the 53rd Season of Danganronpa, a famous worldwide reality show made by Team Danganronpa.

During her high school days, Maki attended Brave Heart Hall High School (勇心館高校). However, it is unclear if this memory of her is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it was genuine.

Fabricated Past
After she successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Maki's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

Maki as the Ultimate Child Caregiver
Maki's parents were gone before she could even remember. As a result, she was raised in an orphanage. She was made to help take care of the younger children at the orphanage because the older kids had to help take care of the younger ones. Even though children like her, she did not like them back nearly as much and wasn't even particularly fond of taking care of them. Nevertheless, the children at the orphanage still adored Maki.

Maki as the Ultimate Assassin
At some unknown point in time while Maki was at the orphanage, a group of men from the Holy Salvation Society began to look around and even watch the children play. In reality, they were scouting for potential candidates to train as assassins. The Holy Salvation Society was actually a cult that trained assassins. They threatened Maki's orphanage that they would lose their funding if they did not do what they said. As a result, Maki agreed to be trained as an assassin which she herself described as "the beginning of hell". The training she described being excruciatingly difficult, vomiting every day, and crying every night. However, after vomiting and crying constantly, her heart gradually became empty, thus she adapted to the lifestyle of killing people. All of this was done for the sake of keeping her orphanage up and running.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Maki and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Maki was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participant however, Maki and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Maki chose to forget about her Ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Maki and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Maki and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

In order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, the true Mastermind decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, were actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair, and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush however, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Maki was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Maki was confused about their current predicament. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived in their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light to make them more suitable for the Killing Game. Maki and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. She also received the talent and title of Ultimate Assassin. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Maki and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester. Students of Fabrication
Afterwards, once Kaede and Shuichi began to investigate the academy, the duo would find Maki in the library. In order to divert suspicion away from herself, she introduced herself as the Ultimate Child Caregiver instead of her actual title of Ultimate Assassin. She came off as noticeably cold and cruel towards the duo, criticizing Shuichi for not being able to figure out what was going on due to his status as the Ultimate Detective, and even told Kaede that she was a naive fool for thinking that they could get out of here by simply working together. She left the library afterwards, leaving the duo fairly surprised that the Ultimate Child Caregiver could be so condescending and unpleasant.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester
Maki would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement. As soon as everyone was in the gymnasium, the Monokubs and Monokuma, the Monokuma Kubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game, much to almost everyone's shock and horror. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.

Attempting the Death Road of 
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Maki read the rules on her Monopad. She was able to remain calm, but a majority of the group wasn't sure what to do after reading these rules and began to panic and argue. Thanks to Kaede's motivational argument however, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Maki went along with everyone else and immediately followed Gonta's lead to investigate.

Failed Death Road
Descending the manhole, Maki and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Maki and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony. Maki agreed with this statement and criticized Kaede for trying to push them all through a hopeless situation. This, added by some of Kaede's friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Maki included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Maki headed back to her assigned dorm room along with the others to get some rest.

The First and Additional 
The next day, Maki gathered with everyone in the dining hall. As soon as Kaede arrived Kokichi greeted her, having made the group consolidate once again with his "kind" lie. Kaito however, was still angry with everyone for pushing all the blame onto Kaede without taking any responsibility themselves, but Kaede said it was fine, not wanting the group to fight again. Afterwards, Monokuma came to the dining hall and announced the first motive, anyone who committed the first killing will graduate without holding a trial, effectively calling it a "First Blood Perk". Everyone was worried about what this would mean, aside from Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, who became increasingly outraged with Monokuma for doing whatever he wanted and lunged at him. This caused the Monokubs to show up, showing no hesitation to punish Kaito with the Exisals for attempting violence against their father, effectively breaking the rules. The red Exisal charged at him, but accidentally ended up crushing Monokuma instead, supposedly destroying him. The Monokubs were incredibly saddened at the sudden demise of their father, stating that he had no spare and that he was one of a kind. Upon learning this, Kaito and everyone else's mood improved greatly, thinking the killing game to be over. Kaede insisted that this might not truly end the Killing Game, but this only drew the ire from the a majority of the group, Maki included. She told Kaede that her repeated motivational speeches wouldn't work on them anymore, discouraging her and causing her to go to her room.

Monokuma is telling the first motive Danganronpa V3
The next morning, Maki was with everyone else in the dining hall once again, relieved that the Killing Game had supposedly ended. However, it didn't take long for Monokuma to show up once again, much to the dismay of the students, but to the joy of the Monokubs. Monokuma goes on to reveal the additional motive, that if a murder did not occur within two days by noon, everyone who was forced to participate would be killed. This motive caused a majority of the group to become too depressed to stay united and leave the dining hall. Maki however, was not surprised, finding it obvious that the game wasn't over.

On The 
Gifted Students heading to the game room
On the final day as the time limit was drawing closer to its end, Kaito asked Maki to join his strategy meeting, somehow knowing that she probably knew how to fight just by looking at her. While annoyed with him, she till agreed, and so her, Kaito, Gonta, Tenko Chabashira, the Ultimate Aikido Master, Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, and Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ???, headed down to the game room in the basement to conduct their strategy meeting. Not long after however, Rantaro excused himself to go to the restroom while actually going to investigate the library, knowing of the secret room thanks to his Survivor Perk Monopad.

The remaining people in the game room rushing into the library.
Maki would remain in the game room, Gonta would lock himself in the AV room, and Tenko and Kaito would leave the game room to get Rantaro only to join Kaede and Shuichi in storming the library, finding the bookcase in the back of the room closing and Rantaro's corpse not far away from it. Tenko's scream alerted the remaining people in the game room and they came rushing in. As everyone pondered what was going on and whether or not the Killing Game had officially began or ended, the body discovery announcement played and eventually everyone was in the library, though Maki didn't seem to be particularly shocked by Rantaro's death due to likely witnessing death countless times before.

The First Investigation and Class 
During the investigation, Maki was questioned by Kaede and Shuichi in the game room. She told the pair that Rantaro left their strategy meeting early with the excuse of using the bathroom while Gonta had locked himself in the AV room, which she also found suspicious.

During the trial itself, after questioning multiple suspects, Maki and the others eventually found out that Shuichi had failed to mention the camera intervals to Kaede while they were setting up in the library. This quickly garnered the suspicion of many of the students, Maki included, and he was quickly denounced as the culprit. However, thanks to Kaede's valiant efforts, she was able to prove his innocence, though at the same time, encouraged Shuichi to find her guilty of the crime. Maki simply watched as Kaede confessed to everything and was executed by Monokuma, being one of the few students to not seemingly seem upset at her demise.

Maki's Research 
The morning of the next day, Maki along with everyone else would gather in the dining hall once again and had a normal, but forced conversation to try and make themselves not think about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. Afterwards, the Monokubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that would become unlocked would be the remaining second floor of the school, as well as the third floor, which contained Maki's Research Lab. Upon discovering it, Maki realized that if anyone entered her Research Lab, they would realize that she was really the Ultimate Assassin, not the Ultimate Child Caregiver. As a result, she prohibited anyone to enter it and shut herself inside. When Shuichi tried to enter it, he found Maki and she bluntly told him that he was not allowed in, going so far as to threaten him. Kokichi couldn't help but overhear what was going on and also found it odd that Maki wouldn't let anyone into her lab despite there being no rules against it.

Angie eventually told Maki and everyone to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight that she and Shuichi had discovered earlier. After everyone had gathered, Monokuma appeared and told the participants that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Maki included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

Maki would continue to stand guard over her own Lab throughout the coming days, intent on never letting anyone else blow her cover.

The Motive 
During that same night, the Monokubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. The next morning, Maki joined everyone in the dining hall in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. However, she didn't even watch the motive video she was given due to thinking it was "something stupid". Despite Ryoma Hoshi, the Ultimate Tennis Pro, suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. Maki went along with everyone's decision, then told Kirumi to bring her her dinner later before leaving the dining hall to continue standing guard over her Lab.

A couple days later, when Gonta was tricked by Kokichi into gathering all the students for an "Insect Meet and Greet", Maki would be among the students that he would not be able to detain due to her talent as an assassin that he was not aware off. Later on during nighttime, Ryoma confronted Maki outside of her own lab. As fate would have it, Ryoma had received Maki's motive video, allowing him to learn of her true identity as an assassin. Thanks to Kokichi, he also knew that Maki had his own motive video and was desperate to see it, even going so far as to blackmail Maki if she refused, threatening to expose her true identity to everyone. Maki could not say no to this and handed over his motive video to him, which later on would prove to be a fatal mistake.

The Second Investigation and 
The very next morning during Himiko's magic show, Ryoma's body would end up being discovered during it, much to the horror of everyone who was there. The body discovery announcement alerted everyone who wasn't attending the show to head to the gym, which included Maki. Despite assisting with the investigation during Rantaro's murder, she had no intention of helping with Ryoma's murder and headed back up to her Lab to stand guard. She chose to keep quiet about meeting up with Ryoma at nighttime because she "wasn't in the mood to be suspected". Kirumi would join Maki later on due to everyone agreeing to investigate with at least one other person. During his investigation, Shuichi would question Maki about her odd behavior this entire time. He told her that he didn't automatically suspect her due to this, but at least wanted her to be honest with him if she really wasn't the culprit. Maki decided to tell him and Kaito about what happened last night with Gonta, but continued to keep quiet about her meeting with Ryoma, claiming that she didn't know anything.

During the Class Trial, after everyone had supposedly pinned down the culprit as either Maki or Kaito, Kokichi proposed that they all have those two argue against each other and convince the remaining participants on who the culprit is since if only two suspects remained, one of them had to know for certain that the other was the culprit. Kokichi presented everyone with the first topic, bringing out Ryoma's motive video, and said that one of those two had it. Shuichi was able to deduce that Maki had Ryoma's video due to the fact that he himself had Kaito's. Kokichi proudly told Kaito and Maki to tear each others arguments apart in an argument that "isn't boring". Kaito however, was angered by this, saying that he wasn't the culprit, but that Maki wasn't the culprit either, much to both Maki's and Kokichi's bewilderment. Kokichi was baffled with the Ultimate Astronaut being so willing to believe in people based on nothing more than a "hunch", especially considering that everyone's lives were on the line. After going back and forth for some time, Maki turned the entire debate around and finally confessed that she had met with Ryoma at nighttime, rendering everyone's alibi's as mute. Kokichi laughed Maki's claim off, claiming she was lying out of desperation. After debating on the matter, and thanks to Shuichi's lie, they were able to prove Maki's claim as accurate. Due to this, Kokichi backed down once again.

As the class trial continued on, Shuichi was able to point Kirumi as the real culprit of Ryoma's murder, with Maki claiming that someone as skilled as Kirumi would have been able to make use of and concoct such a complex murder. In the end, after Kirumi was convicted, she told everyone the truth, that she was actually the de facto Prime Minister of Japan and that she carried the burden of the entire country on her shoulders. In the end, despite Kirumi's attempts to get away, Maki simply watched as the Ultimate Maid was executed by Monokuma.

Maki 
Ouma reveals Harukawa's true talent
After everyone left the trial room, Kokichi stated that there was an even worse liar than himself hiding among the group, much to everyone's confusion. He then called Maki out as that liar, essentially claiming that she had been lying to everyone about her true identity this entire time. Maki was aggravated by this and threatened Kokichi, but despite holding the Ultimate Supreme Leader by his neck, he still called out her true talent as the Ultimate Assassin. Maki would supposedly try to kill Kokichi, but was stopped by everyone else there before heading to her room.

The very next morning, at Kokichi’s request, everyone headed to the "Ultimate Child Caregiver’s Research Lab" barring Maki, who had locked herself in her own room. Everyone became shocked to discover the variety of weapons all throughout it, essentially proving Kokichi’s claim the night prior. The group became increasingly worried, viewing the talent of a killer as a genuine threat to their own survival. Kaito however, was not afraid. He reassured everyone to leave Maki to him and that he’d "take down that mask of hers". Afterwards, the Monokubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy. Kaito however, did not investigate the new areas, instead trying to get Maki to come out of her own room. While he greatly irritated the Ultimate Assassin, she eventually complied and came out of her room.

Helping 
After all the new areas had been opened up and investigated, everyone gathered in the dining hall once again in order to investigate yet another Flashback Light. The other participants became shocked to discover that Maki was there with him, having been brought by Kaito. Just like before, everyone was worried that Maki would try to kill them due to her talent, but she attempted to coldly reassure everyone that she wasn’t, saying that the only reason she hid her talent from everyone was because people always try to kill her when they find out her true nature. She told the rest of the group to just pretend she wasn’t even there before leaving the dining hall, a hint of sadness on her face. While everyone else seemed to comply with Maki’s request, Kaito wouldn’t give up that easily.

Maki Harukawa exercising with Kaito Momota and Shuichi Saihara
That same night, Kaito relentlessly buzzed Maki’s intercom until she finally came out, then dragged her by her arm to the courtyard, much to her irritation. Shuichi met with Kaito not long after for training like before, but was surprised to find Maki with him. Maki wondered just what she had been dragged out here for, but Kaito replied by saying not to worry about the small stuff and that training was more fun with three people instead of two. Maki was not amused by this reasoning, stating that it was stupid before getting ready to head back to her dorm, but Kaito stopped her. Maki asked him why he was so insistent after she told him and the others to stay away from her. When she said this, Kaito asked her how long she would continue to "run away". He claimed that he could tell her mask was coming down and that she was not the terrifying person she thought she was, calling her a coward. Kaito asked her who her "enemy" was, but Maki had no idea what he was talking about. He told her that she didn’t have to tell him as long as she knew, but criticized her for running away from her "enemy", claiming it was pathetic but that he would train with her to overcome that weakness. Maki seemed irritated by this, but finally gave in and joined Kaito and Shuichi for one-hundred push-ups. Maki was easily able to accomplish the task however, much to both Kaito and Shuichi’s shock. Once she was done, Kaito told her to meet up again tomorrow for training once again, to which she complied to.

Maki's Decisive 
After seeing the Flashback Light and supposedly remembering that Kokichi Oma is a part of the Remnants of Despair, Maki made use of her electric hammer that Miu Iruma made and stunned an Exisal, which she immediately commandeered to bypass the electric barrier in the Exisal Hangar, where Kaito Momota was being held captive by Kokichi. She was determined to kill The Ultimate Supreme Leader and end the killing game once and for all.

Upon seeing Maki come in, Kokichi made a rush for the Miu's remote control that could control any electronic device but was immediately shot in the back by Maki with a poison-tipped arrow from her crossbow, bringing him to his knees. Kokichi belittled her, asking her why a killing game that should have already ended is continuing, claiming to not know anything about the Remnants of Despair. Maki, tired of hearing Kokichi spout supposed nonsense, shot the killing blow, but Kaito intercepted it with his arm, much to her shock. She immediately left the hangar and made her way to Shuichi Saihara's Research Lab to retrieve the only antidote.

When she made her way back to the hangar, she found the shutter had closed thanks to Kokichi to prevent her from coming back in again, so she went to the small bathroom window instead and tried to give Kaito the antidote through there. When she attempted to pass him the antidote, Kokichi stole it and supposedly drank it all much Kaito's annoyance and Maki's horror since she knew he would die of poison if he didn't get the antidote. Kokichi boasted about there being another class trial where Maki would be Kaito's killer. Maki was stunned, but Kaito reassured her that she was going to live before telling her to run away. She tried to get back in by breaking the control panel to the shutter with her knife, but to no avail.

Later, when everyone was getting ready to storm the Exisal Hangar and defeat Kokichi, Maki did not have her electric hammer with her due to already having used it to commandeer an Exisal, though she kept this fact to herself and said she'd be fine with just her knife. When they opened up the hangar, everyone was horrified to discover an enormous amount of blood leaking from underneath the press machine alongside Kaito's jacket sleeve hanging out from the press, setting off the assumption that he was crushed to death. Maki was rendered silenced and came to the conclusion that she must have killed him because of her poisoned arrow.

Confusion and 
During the class trial, Maki was very quick to deny any claims that the victim was anyone other than Kaito and even got annoyed when Shuichi would try to say otherwise. When the "surprise guest" originally showed up in the Exisal and was initially believed to be Kaito, Maki was stunned until the person inside made themselves out to be Kokichi, having brought a recording of the supposed victim being crushed by the press with them, which appeared to be Kaito.

As the trial progresses, and Shuichi reveals Maki as the third party that infiltrated the hangar, it is revealed that she was willing to sacrifice anything, including the lives of her fellow survivors, in order to defeat Kokichi. After this fact is revealed, she decides to the reveal the truth about what happened inside the hangar between Kaito and Kokichi to everyone else in the trial. Eventually, the full truth about Kokichi's plan is revealed and that even Monokuma does not know the true culprit of this case. Maki tells Shuichi that she will think correctly from now on because she herself is unable to accept that she could have killed Kaito.

However, once Shuichi reveals that the only other person Kaito could have swapped with to pull off this case was Kokichi, meaning Kaito would still be alive, Maki was quick to take the blame for the crime once again due to being unable to believe that Kaito would kill someone after constantly saying that he would never kill someone. Eventually, Shuichi is able to fully deduce Kokichi's full plan and Kaito comes out of the Exisal, revealing himself as the true culprit of this case.

Maki is initially angry, asking Kaito why he was the one who killed Kokichi after saying that killing was wrong time and time again. Kaito then proceeded to tell her and the others the full details of Kokichi's plan and why he went along with it in the first place. Once Kaito started coughing up blood however, Maki panicked. Monokuma was quick to want to execute him, but Maki refused to let him get killed regardless of whether or not he was sick. Monokuma then reveals that all five of the Monokuma Kubs have been reconstructed and are active once more, meaning that all five Exisal are once again under their control and will defend Monokuma. Maki is not phased by this, but Kaito tells her to stop, to which she responds to by tearfully telling him that he was the first person to call her "Maki Roll" ("Harumaki" in the original Japanese), and the first person she ever ended up liking. Kaito apologizes to her about not being able to spend more time with her due to his condition but reassures her that if she could like someone like him, then she could even learn to like herself. Upon hearing this, Maki breaks down in tears.

Following Kaito's execution, Maki made her way to the courtyard where they would always go to train together. She finds that Shuichi was already there, and the two shared a short, but emotional conversation, agreeing that they should be grateful to Kaito for everything he had done for them and vowed to carry on his will and end the killing once and for all. Eventually, they were joined by Tsumugi Shirogane and Himiko Yumeno, they all decided to train together. This moment was eventually interrupted by K1-B0, who had lost his "connector" to the outside world and thus; making him wanted to end the killing game for good and was determined to destroy Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles and end the killing game himself.

Uncovering the 
Maki along with fellow survivors Shuichi, K1-B0, Himiko, and Tsumugi decide to re-open Rantaro Amami's case after discovering new truths related to his murder. Once Shuichi revealed Rantaro's talent as the Ultimate Survivor, and proved that Kaede did in fact not murder him and was executed unjustly, Shuichi realizes that The Mastermind has to be one of them and, by double-checking everyone's alibis during Rantaro's murder, hones in on Tsumugi as the true culprit and mastermind of the Killing School Semester.

Maki along with the other survivors are confused and shocked that the Ultimate Cosplayer could have gone through with such a plan while she denies the claim vehemently. Shuichi however, makes it very clear that Tsumugi is the only person who could have murdered Rantaro by using the hidden passageway in the girls bathroom, which also led into the hidden room that connected to the library. She attempted to pin the blame on K1-B0 since he was not present for when they interacted with Motherkuma, but Shuichi is quick to call her out on not giving the command of "birth" which would have trigger Motherkuma's voice recognition software and created another Monokuma. Maki tells Tsumugi to argue Shuichi's claims if she wants everyone to believe her but is unable to do so. Maki along with the others watch as Tsumugi slowly breaks and re-introduces herself as "Junko Enoshima the 53rd".

Maki is quick to want to kill "Junko", thinking that it will end the killing game, but she claims that the killing game won't end with her death. Tsumugi, now cosplaying as Junko, went on to reveal that everyone's memories of being students at Hope's Peak Academy, The Gofer Project, and shouldering their friends and families burdens as mankind's last hope, was all a false memory planted into their brains by the Flashback Light. In reality, everything they remember about attending Hope's Peak Academy and the outside world being destroyed was a lie. What they remember about Kokichi being part of the Remnants of Despair was a lie as well, stunning Maki.

In reality, the circumstances behind their killing game are far crueler. After proving her talent fully as the Ultimate Cosplayer by cosplaying as some characters from Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc and Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, Tsumugi revealed that everything has been broadcasted to a very peaceful world that has been enjoying watching the students of Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles kill each other, essentially revealing everything that they've been through as a reality-TV show and "Extreme Real Fiction". She also reveals that everything that took place at the Hope's Peak Academy Saga was nothing more than fictional events from a very popular anime and game franchise known as Danganronpa.

Maki, along with the other survivors, were quick to oppose Tsumugi and Monokuma, but they both revealed that the participants of the Killing School Semester are also "fictional characters", whose memory, personality, feelings, and talent were all fabricated in order to provide an exciting setting for the killing game. Tsumugi reveals herself as working for Team Danganronpa and goes a step further and shows Shuichi's, Kaede's, and Kaito's, audition videos for the killing game, showing what sort of people they were prior to participating. Upon being told that her feelings for Kaito were all fabricated, Maki seems to have an emotional breakdown and questions what everything up until now was for.

K1-B0 however, after hearing what "the voice inside of him" has to say, reassured everyone to not lose hope. Tsumugi corrected him and says that the voice K1-B0 hears is the voice of the people watching this killing game and that he is nothing more than an interactive communication device and camera for the viewers to interact and participate in the game themselves. Despite this, K1-B0 refused to give up on hope and stated that the people in the outside world don't want despair. Tsumugi meanwhile refused to give up on despair and stated that a world that enjoys killings could not possibly desire hope. In true Danganronpa fashion, they decide to settle this with one final, special vote where K1-B0 represents hope and Tsumugi represents despair.

However, Shuichi saw through the charade and cuts in, saying that neither choice is correct and that choosing hope would do nothing but cause the killing game to continue. Because of this, he decides to stop playing along and abandons his vote, hoping to end Danganronpa once and for all, much to Tsumugi's and Monokuma's chagrin. Eventually, Shuichi convinced Maki to abandon her vote, she came to the conclusion that even if everything is fiction, that she'll believe in herself. She stated that if she couldn't do that, there would be no meaning for her existing here. She said that if she can make fiction change reality, that it then wouldn't be fiction and that it would give Kaito's life meaning, choosing to believe her feelings for him were in fact real. She resolved to use her own life as a weapon and abandoned her vote along with the others.

In a last-ditch effort to keep Danganronpa going, K1-B0 is hacked by the audience. Tsumugi is proud to show that the audience does not wish for Danganronpa to end and explains that they supposedly deleted K1-B0's personality that kept getting in the way. K1-B0 is able to take brief control again and tells his fellow survivors that their choice is not the wrong one and that they can change the world before the hacking takes him over again. Maki tells K1-B0 to hang in there, but Tsumugi tells everyone that what they're doing is pointless. Shuichi refuses to give up, still exclaiming that he will end Danganronpa and that their lives are not just show-things for their amusement. Maki encourages Shuichi and tells him that he might be able to change the world.

Confident that Shuichi's voice reached the outside world through K1-B0, Maki and everyone else abandoned their vote. Tsumugi however, bends the rules one last time and abandons her vote as well, which she reveals after everyone else did. Everyone is immediately confused and worried as to why she abandoned her vote as well. Tsumugi stated that if they're going to risk their lives to end Danganronpa, then she will risk her life to make it continue. Tsumugi is confident that Danganronpa will continue after abandoning her vote, meaning only K1-B0's vote will have any power as he is still being hacked.

When Monokuma displays the results of the final voting, Tsumugi is shocked to discover that no one had voted, proving that the audience does not want Danganronpa to continue. Tsumugi panics and tries to make everyone reconsider, but it is no use as the monitors all turn-off, the audience no longer showing any interest. Upon realizing that Danganronpa was indeed over and done with, promptly loses all of her hope in living as she denied a world without Danganronpa, but she had not prepared a proper execution beforehand as such leaves it to K1-B0.

Maki along with her fellow survivors take cover under some rubble while K1-B0 executed everything and blows himself up, creating an opening in the glass dome for his fellow survivors to escape.

Maki's 
NDRV3 Survivors 2
Maki survived the final execution along with fellow survivors Shuichi and Himiko by hiding under some rubble. She is the first to come out of the rubble and take in her surroundings, Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles had been completely obliterated by K1-B0. The remaining survivors wondered what would become of the fictional world now, but none of them had an idea of what to do now that everything was over. Maki questioned at first why they were still alive, but Himiko and Shuichi both stated that it must have been the outside world's will that let them survive. To Maki and Himiko's surprise, Shuichi states that what Tsumugi said to them about the outside world may have been a lie and that Hope's Peak Academy and the Remnants of Despair might actually exist, though he has no proof to back up this claim. He also does not think that he would willingly participate in a killing game no matter how mad of a world he was living in, but once again it is mere speculation, though Himiko states that Kaito's insight might be rubbing off on him. Despite not really knowing what is truth and what is a lie, Maki along with her two remaining survivors resolve themselves to go out into the outside world and see the truth for themselves, and that if a lie had changed the world, then the story would not end.

The Survivors of the 53rd Killing Game
Creation and 
Maki's birthday (February 2) coincides with Japan's national holiday Setsubun, the day before the beginning of spring. A special ritual holds during this day to cleanse away all the evil of the former year and drive away disease-bringing evil spirits for the year to come. This special ritual is called mamemaki (豆撒き).

Komaru's Beta (2)
This is a joke to her given name kanji (魔姫), which means demon princess. Maki's first name is a reference to the ritual mamemaki, while her last name, Harukawa referenced to the Spring (春 haru) season.

Maki's hairstyle is similar to one of Komaru Naegi's beta designs.


Maki's given name, written 魔姫, means "demon princess" while her last name, 春川 Harukawa, means "river of spring".

Alternate 
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Maki was seen in the hallway giving her short introduction to Kaede Akamatsu as the Ultimate Child Caregiver. She states that even though she's unsociable and hates children, they loved her. This is somewhat become a mystery to her, speculating that maybe because she took care of them well. Kaede commented that the children could see Maki's true soul and think that she's actually capable of deep love.


Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Maki Harukawa
Maki is a young woman of short stature, yet a common height for women in Japan. Sporting a rather slender physique, she does possess some muscle and strength underneath it all. She has red eyes and long, dark brown hair, unknown if she takes proper care of, that she ties into twintails held by two big, red scrunchies. She has straight bangs that hide her eyebrows, as well as two small strands of hair that fall at the sides of her head, the one falling at her right side being a bit longer. Maki also has a beauty mark under her left eye.

She dons a red sailor-uniform accompanied by matching colored thigh-high socks, a short, pleated black plaid skirt, and brown ankle boots that are easy enough for her to move in. The scarf on her uniform is a pale pink with a very slight visible star design on it. A pin of her previous high school is on her breast pocket, and an emblem at the bottom right of her shirt. Her accessories include a dark grey wristband that looks similar to magnetic bracelets athletes wear, small, silver stud earrings, a white hairpin at the side of her head, and a flower brooch on her right shoulder, which seems unusual, as she doesn't seem to care for girly fashion.

In the prologue, Maki lacks her red crunchies or looped hairpin in her hair. Instead, her hair is tied back into twintails with two simple hairbands, and two straight, white pins on the side of her hair. She wears a double-breasted blue school blazer, with white stripes on her lapels, two sets of two white buttons on her jacket, and a blue-and-white striped tie around her neck. She wears a short, dark, plaid pleated skirt that has a teal overlay. She dons dark blue knee-high socks and dark grey inside shoes.


Maki appears to have a very serious personality, as she doesn't really seem to smile much if at all. The only notable exception is the poster which shows her with a mysterious smile, having a finger over her lips, which is a sign of secrecy.

Despite her cute appearance, Maki is described as a hostile misanthrope of few words. She is very aware that she comes across as unfriendly and prefers to be alone. In general, she dislikes people and thus she is not very cooperative and can be stubborn. She talks very little, so when she does, she states things clearly and she appears to be very confident about her arguments. She is cynical and negative with a sharp tongue and sometimes talks in a cold sarcastic manner. While not the type to assertively act on her own, she is stated to have guts and willing to take action when it suits her. She has no problem blaming Kaede Akamatsu coldly and rudely multiple times.

Despite her distant and unfriendly personality, Maki is good at taking care of others. She is very popular among children, even though she dislikes them.According to Kaede, Maki is actually capable of deep love, something that children might be able to see, explaining their attachment to her. She also shows a more caring side when she accepts gifts and is invited by Kaede to spend time together.

Maki doesn't want to alert people around her about her true talent as the Ultimate Assassin, to the point that she always stayed in her Research Lab after the room became accessible in Chapter 2. She does this for the sake of preventing unnecessary shock and panic in the group. She also appears to have trouble trusting others and making friends. At first, the only people she trusted were Kaito Momota and Shuichi Saihara, and she begins to open up and develop with their support.

As the Ultimate Assassin, Maki becomes much more violent, intimidating, and unafraid to threaten others, demonstrating her confidence in her abilities. She carries a knife around with her (as seen in her sprites), and is shown attempting to strangle Kokichi Oma a few times. At times, she seems downright ruthless and cold.

Despite her extreme personality, Maki actually holds deep insecurities due to her past as an assassin. As part of her training, Maki was forced to undergo torture, and stated that she "vomited every day" and "cried every night." According to Maki, she did at one point feel anger and pain for being forced to kill others, until she reached the point where she felt "empty", telling Shuichi that she no longer considers herself human. As a result, Maki's experiences caused her to feel hate for herself, believing she was not worthy of having friends and therefore deciding to distance herself from the other students. However, after befriending Kaito and Shuichi, Maki decides to try and change her perspective, eventually learning to accept herself like Kaito encouraged her to.


Ultimate Child 
Danganronpa V3 Maki Harukawa Introduction (Demo Version)
Having been raised in an orphanage, Maki is very skilled at taking care of others, as she was ordered to take care of the younger children. She is loved by many children, even though she herself doesn't like kids. Kaede has stated that the children may be attached to Maki because they could see her true soul and capability of deep love. In reality, Maki has no real talent in caregiving and simply chose to use that as the cover story to hide her real talent since she really did have to take care of those younger than her when she lived as an orphan.

Ultimate 
Maki's true talent is that of the Ultimate Assassin (超高校級の「暗殺者」chō kōkō-kyū no "ansatsusha"). Trained as a child under the threat of having her orphanage be targeted if she failed, Maki developed a proficiency with multiple types of weapons and powerful strength and endurance. She is also capable of using numerous weapons without difficulty.

However, Maki's talent as the Ultimate Assassin is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa, as well as her fake talent. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Maki is a professional assassin or a child caregiver in the past.

In other 
Maki's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Child Caregiver
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「保育士」	Super High School Level Nursery School Teacher
Français Nurse Ultime	Ultimate Nanny
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的保母	Super High School Level Caregiver
中文 超高中级的保母	Super High School Level Caregiver

Her Orphanage:
Maki cares greatly about the orphanage she was raised in. She talks about it quite often, although she tends to complain about the younger orphans' fondness of her. Maki later admits that the orphanage was the reason she chose to become an assassin in the first place, as her employers agreed to fund the orphanage so long as one of the orphans, Maki, worked for them. It is later revealed that the orphanage was a part of Maki's fabricated memories, although this simply could have been another one of Tsumugi's lies.

In her Love Across the Universe's ending, she stated that if she ever quit being an assassin, she will try to become the actual Ultimate Child Caregiver.

Unnamed 
In her Free Time Events, Maki describes an unnamed girl from her orphanage to Shuichi. She says that the two of them often played together, as Maki remembers her fondly. The two were separated after Maki's decision to become an assassin; she states that the organization she worked for initially intended to recruit her friend, but Maki volunteered instead, in order to save her from "the torture." The girl died presumably a few years afterwards saving a child, to Maki's dismay. It's later revealed that her friend never existed, as she was a part of Maki's fabricated memories; however, this may be another one of Tsumugi's lies.

Love Interest:
Kaito 
At first, Maki had many disagreements with Kaito, calling him stupid and an idiot. Kaito was frightened when Maki suggested that he take on the Monokuma Kubs while in the Exisal form, and was angered when she pushed the blame for dividing the unity between the students onto Kaede. Maki also blamed Kaito several times during the first trial, calling him suspicious and an idiot quite frequently. However, Kaito did include her with the students he rounded up to fight the mastermind. Interestingly, he correctly guessed with his intuition that Maki looks like a person who can fight.

Despite their earlier arguments, Kaito later strongly believed in Maki's innocence during the second trial, as he always does with people he wants to believe in. Maki was surprised and a bit confused by this sudden trust in her, and appeared to be unwillingly touched by Kaito's faith in her. After Maki was revealed to be the Ultimate Assassin by Kokichi, Kaito was very doubtful and believed Maki isn't that kind of person. Afterwards, he continued to constantly spend time with her, wishing to "take off her mask" and even nicknaming her "Maki Roll" (Harumaki in the Japanese version) to her displeasure. She appears to be annoyed by him, but claims she isn't willing to chase him away since it would be a waste of time arguing with Kaito.

Kaito then began dragging her to Shuichi and his training regime even though Maki massively overpowers them in the training, stating it was a waste of time, that she's easily bored of the exercise. Despite that, in the next night Maki seems to have taken the training more seriously after Kaito told her that it was for her to "defeat her enemy". Despite her initial irritation with Kaito skipping out on training, she goes with it, aware he's most likely not feeling good. However, as shown when Kaito hugged her out of fear due to Tenko's demise, she was unbearably embarassed (although this was only because she was coincidentally the person closest to him at the time), resulting in her punching him. However, he didn't seem to mind, and even complimented her strength afterwards.

Maki soon started to show more care for Kaito during Chapter 4 and began to open up to him and Shuichi more and more. She even began to have romantic feelings for Kaito, apparent when she got jealous when Kaito appeared interested in Tsumugi's sensitive neck and later when Kaito chose to team up with Shuichi over her in the virtual world. She is also furious when Kokichi knocked down Kaito following Gonta's execution, even going as far as to make threats, and was shocked when Kaito suddenly began coughing blood. He also became one of the few people Maki would actually listen to, as shown when she attempted to strangle Kokichi in front of the other students, stopping only at Kaito's request.

In Chapter 5, the two join in the group effort to take down Kokichi, who was believed to be the mastermind at the time. After Kaito was kidnapped by Kokichi, Maki continued to watch the hangar where he was imprisoned in, with Tsumugi even pointing out to Shuichi that she must have feelings for Kaito. When Maki attempted to kill Kokichi by shooting him with a poisoned arrow, Kaito purposely took the hit to prevent her from doing so. Kokichi later realizes that he did this not to protect Kokichi, but Maki instead, so that she could keep her hands clean in the killing game.

Kaito later commited the deed himself, and confessed to it during the Class Trial despite Maki tearfully begging him to stop. He stopped Maki from carrying out her threats to kill the Monokuma Kubs, and requested that she not cry for him before saying his farewells to her. Just before Kaito was executed, Maki confessed her feelings to him. While he made no mention of liking her back, he complimented her for her development and stated that she must be finally able to love herself now after falling for a guy like him. During their voting time, Maki had no choice but to vote for Kaito as the culprit still due to his final words before his execution started. Kaito eventually became the only one of Maki's companions that she had any genuine care for. Kaito is the only person who Maki truly cares after his upcoming death and is the only one who made Maki cry for the first time in the Killing Game.

It's shown that Maki still remembers Kaito dearly after his demise. She feels thankful to him for saving her and the other students, and decides not to cry anymore, as Kaito requested. Sometimes when she thinks of him fondly, she tends to call him "that idiot" or "reckless guy". Although at first devastated after being told that her feelings for Kaito were a mere fabrication, she decided that this was not true and her feelings for him have always been real.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Shuichi 
The two got along well after the events of Chapter 2 after Kaito brought Maki to their training regime. This resulted in the three doing exercises together, although Maki outmatched the two boys at everything they did. Shuichi seemed impressed with Maki's skills, and the three began to meet up nightly to do these exercises. Maki threatens Shuichi into hurting him or killing him sometimes since she has trouble trusting him. She also frequently told Shuichi to get a grip, since he's a detective.

Maki, to an extent, became comfortable talking about serious or personal topics with Shuichi. She confided in him about not feeling "human" due to her past as an assassin, and seemed to find his response reassuring, although she did not show it. She also questions Shuichi on his feelings for the late Kaede, despite most of the other students' unwillingness to mention her in front of him.

Maki assisted Shuichi during Chapter 3's investigation, helping him creating hypotheses and finding clues. She noticeably becomes more vocal, occasionally asking if he wants to die at his surprise, to which she follows up that she was just joking. When on the discussion of Tenko's last moments, Shuichi and Maki work together to lie about Tenko dying instantly, so she wouldn't be able to kill herself inside the cage, therefore together steering the trial into the right direction again. Shuichi told Maki that she helped him a lot with the investigation, although Maki only said that she found him surprisingly reliable during the investigation.

During the events of the virtual world in Chapter 4, Maki does make a point to remind Shuichi that he's a person before he's a detective, which he's touched by, despite her telling him he's more reliable during a murder case than daily life. Nonetheless, it's apparent the two have grown quite close to each other, with her asking if he's okay, making sure if he and Kaito aren't fighting when Shuichi forcibly logged him out to test something.

In Chapter 5, however, she does secretly go behind their backs, betraying the promise she agreed to, as she and nobody else should try attempting to kill Kokichi, Maki decides on her own to break into the hangar, torture him and attempt to kill him, only thwarted when Kaito takes the second arrow on Kokichi's behalf. During the trial, she repeatedly attempts to steer the crime into her own fault, threatening and insulting Shuichi when he continues trying to solve why Maki couldn't have killed Kaito. Despite the betrayal and attitude towards Shuichi and the others during the trial, Maki doesn't seem to be apologetic for this, or had the time to apologize, since they all had to mourn Kaito for a short time before K1-B0 began destroying the school.

After Kaito's execution in Chapter 5, Maki and Shuichi went to their normal training spot and had a short, but emotional conversation about the events that had transpired, being joined by Tsumugi and Himiko to train together and mourn Kaito. Shuichi, Maki, and the others resolved to put an end to the Killing Game and ultimately ended up surviving together along with Himiko.

During the Love Suite Event, Shuichi had the role of a kid from the same orphanage of Maki. Maki says that despite Shuichi and her being together for 10 years, she still didn't understand him. Shuichi is confused and Maki explains that he came to the orphanage a little before he entered elementary school. Shuichi agrees absentmindedly. Maki then again says that she really doesn't know everything about Shuichi. He then asks her what makes her think she doesn't know everything about him. She then blushes and Shuichi is confused at this. Maki says that Shuichi before used to play house with the other kids and it became difficult for her. She then asks Shuichi when he wanted to make a real family with her instead of a pretend one. Maki then goes silent and Shuichi asks whats wrong. Maki then gently held Shuichi's hand and says that she knew something was strange. Maki says that she wants to create a real family with Shuichi and not a fake one. Maki then asks Shuichi to promise her that he'll stay with her. Shuichi then nods his head as his answer

Kokichi 
Maki despises Kokichi, even attempting to literally strangle him to death twice, only to be stopped by Kaito. He exposed her identity as an assassin, accuses her of driving Ryoma Hoshi to suicide by showing the tennis player his motive video, and spends most of the third chapter informing his colleagues not to interact with the murderer. He constantly refers to her with terms such as "killer girl" and "murder girl" instead of her name.

Kokichi seems disturbed whenever she's around, and gets irritated with Kaito when he insists on bringing her along, commenting that they don't need to "cooperate with a murderer." He also sneeringly keeps pointing out her familiarity with murder methods and corpses whenever she uses her knowledge to help with cases. She mostly stays silent after Kokichi throws taunts her way, but she tends to lose her self control, attempting to hurt him or just telling him to be quiet. She also often glares at him, which sometimes frightens and silences him. Although everyone else was shocked and afraid of Maki's reveal to be an assassin, Kokichi seems to be the one most upset by it.

During the fifth chapter, after Kokichi captures Kaito, she seriously attempts to kill him with a poisoned crossbow. Maki spends the entire chapter referring to Kokichi exclusively as "the son of a bitch", which is remarkable because she otherwise never swears. Eventually, Maki realized that Kokichi wasn't the mastermind all along and regretted how she led the one she loved into killing Kokichi and Maki took the blame for it.

Kaede 
After Maki reveals her title as the Ultimate Child Caregiver to Kaede, she states that she hates children despite the fact that they love her. Kaede, however, mentioned that the children could see Maki's true soul and that she is actually capable of deep love.

Despite Kaede's kindness towards her, Maki is shown to be somewhat distrustful of Kaede, openly showcasing her dislike for her on several occasions. She pushes the blame for the students falling out in Chapter 1 on Kaede and does not appear saddened when Kaede is executed.

However, Maki seems to have a somewhat better relationship with Kaede in the Ultimate Talent Development Plan, to such a point where Kaito wonders how since they were so close. Despite she calls her relationship with Kaede an "arrangement" she is usually seen with her, a clear sign that her friendship is almost to Shuichi and Kaito’s, promising that she will find a way to make Kaede plays the piano to the children of her orphanage. At the same time, Maki still tends to be cold towards her - an example is when she offers herself to accompany Chihiro Fujisaki to Gundham Tanaka to ask for a proper burial for a deceased bird found by the latter who, surprised by the kind deed, is brief by Kaede who says that behind the caregiver's edgy surface there is a really sincere person, which Maki replies with a cold but embarrassed way, scolding Kaede that she has no need to come with them, much to the pianist’s dismay.

Tsumugi 
In the beginning, the two didn't talk much and barely interacted with each other, not sharing any common points of interest. Despite this, however, they still considered each other as fellow survivors after Kaito's execution and joined her and Shuichi in the courtyard along with Himiko to carry on the Ultimate Astronaut's will.

After Tsumugi was found out as the Ringleader behind the Killing School Semester by Shuichi however, Maki turned incredibly hostile towards the Ultimate Cosplayer, threatening to kill her on many occasions as the final trial continued. In the end, like the other survivors, she viewed her as her enemy and vowed to stop her and the killing game even if it cost her her life.

Korekiyo 
Maki is one of the few female students who does not meet Korekiyo's criteria as his sister's "admirable friend" and thus she is not a potential murder victim for him. Due to her being an assassin and generally very unsocial, Korekiyo thinks she doesn't believe in "the power of love", where Maki believes him to be delusional.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Maki Harukawa, Hotel Kumasutra#Maki Harukawa

Maki Pixel Head Icon
Maki Harukawa
Loves:	091. Space Egg, 095. Home Planet, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	001. Oolong Tea, 002. Boba Tea, 004. Cleopatra's Pearl Cocktail, 009. Astro Cake, 011. Maple Fudge, 013. Bunny Apples, 018. Silver Earring, 019. Crystal Bangle, 023. Workout Clothes, 028. Nail Brush, 030. Beret, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 032. Cufflinks, 033. Dog Tag, 037. Travel Journal, 041. Fun Book of Animals, 045. High-End Headphones, 046. Teddy Bear, 049. Hand Mirror, 060. I'm a Picture Book Artist!, 061. Hand Grips, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 073. 3-Hit KO Sandbag, 074. Sports Towel, 081. Jelly Balls, 108. Rice Toy Blocks, 110. Fully-Automated Shaved Ice Machine

DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"Maki Harukawa... Ultimate Child Caregiver..."
"Surprised? I don't look like someone who'd like kids, do I? Well you'd be right. I don't like kids all that much. Kids are... weird. They come to me on their own. I'm not that good at taking care of them... I'm not that friendly, either... "
"It wasn't my choice to begin with... It's just... I grew up in an orphanage and got saddled with helping out a lot." (About her talent)
"Work together? With strangers? You're a naive fool if you think you can end this so easily."
Chapter 1:

"So trust no one, Kaede... Or you'll lose, got it?"
Chapter 2:

"You'll be fine if you're short a person, and I doubt a child caregiver would be much help."
"It's not like I owe that idiot a favor or anything just because he defended me... But that hopeless idiot may have encouraged me a bit."
"I didn't want to say anything, but I can't stay silent forever."
"If you really don't wanna die, then you better tell us the truth."
"What worries me is, as long as we're trapped here, we don't know what's true or false."
Chapter 3:

"So...you guys mind your business, I'll mind mine, and we'll all agree to avoid each other."
"...The only way to deal with idiots like him is to give up and just keep nodding."
"I never realized until now how gross it is to hear men talk about being manly."
"I was taught to only value the essentials... I was forced to abandon anything nonessential so they could mold me as they saw fit... After everything they did to me...I sometimes wonder what I am anymore."
"After what I've been through...am I still even human? Even Keebo acts more human than me."
"Anyway...I don't want to give up now. I've finally started to think about...how I can confront it... So...if I have to train alone, so be it."
"Trust me, you don't want to be used to this... No one should get used to this..."
"It's not that important, but... ...the only time you're reliable is when you're investigating a crime scene."
"But whether you believe or not, as a detective you should be there to observe what happens."
"...Of course. Quick deaths are my specialty."
"Crying won't bring Tenko back...and if we don't investigate thoroughly, we'll die to." (to Tsumugi)
"...I'll work hard, until everyone trusts my Ultimate talent. It may not be possible now, but I'll put in the effort so everyone can trust me."
"I...I won't run away anymore... I want to survive and escape this place with everyone."
Chapter 4:

"Do you want to die?"
"Well, unlike Kaito, I'm not just all talk. I always follow through with my decisions."
"Don't worry. When the time comes, we'll use your body as a meat shield."
"You're not fit to be a detective when you assume things without listening first."
"But after vomiting and crying over and over again, my heart gradually became empty. I adapted to the lifestyle...of killing people...of stealing their lives... And...of being a horrible person."
"I was branded as a failure, because of something so stupid."
"I'm not trying to sound like Kaito but...I don't think you should carry all the burden alone. You're Shuichi Saihara before you're a detective. Don't ever forget that. Wellm I shouldn't be talking. I threw away my identity as Maki Harukawa to be an assassin..."
"Just suck it up, Kaito. Now's not the time to be bickering with each other."
Chapter 5:

"I know an assassin wouldn't say this, but I'm sick of all this killing."
"If you don't tell us the truth, then I'll break you."
"It's important for assassins to watch their targets, and think of ways to kill them—"
"...Let's do our best. Then the three of us...can train together again."
"I've seen so much death already. Death of both good and bad people... It doesn't bother me anymore."
"You can't fight despair with just belief."
"This is a battle between hope and despair. If I show any weakness like you are... ...then I know I'll lose to despair."
"But we can't lose to despair. Even if we have no future, we need to win. That is...the whole point of this Class Trial. I will defeat Kokichi, no matter what I have to sacrifice."
"It doesn't matter how much you get in my way, I will absolutely defeat Kokichi. I won't let despair escape... I won't let it win..."
"It doesn't matter... I won't let you kill Kaito. I'll...fight until the end... No, I won't give up."
"I've never felt this way before! I've always fought to kill, but...this is the first time I've fought to protect someone! And...I've never... ...been given a nickname like "Maki Roll" before, either. And I've never... ...met someone as stubborn as you before... And...I've never... ...fallen for someone before. That's why I won't let you kill Kaito! I absolutely won't let you!"
"But, I won't cry anymore. I'm sad, but...I'm grateful to Kaito. Yeah. I want to tell him that rather than being sad or lonely... ...I'm grateful to him. That's why...I won't cry anymore. I'm not going to wallow in pity. I want to show him how much I appreciate all the things he did."
Chapter 6:

"No matter how impossible it seems, we'll accomplish it."
"Back when we abandoned our Ultimate talents to escape the Gofer Project... I...chose to walk a different path than that of an assassin... But in the end...I was dragged back."
"Do what you want, just don't waste any time. It'll be dawn before you know it."
"...That's true. No matter what he's plotting... We're ready to end this killing game, right?"
"Y-You're telling us...this is all a lie? Even...my feelings...? Are you saying even *those* were lies!?"
"After listening to Keebo, I've decided... I don't want this killing game to end with despair. That would just...piss me off. Even then...I'll choose that ending if it means I can kill you. Even if I have to sacrifice my life, I will kill you!"
"My desire to end this killing game may be fictional... And the mastermind as the sole survivor would be aconvenient ending for her... All of that might be implanted as well... Just like my feelings for Kaito... Everything is fiction. A story written by someone... But...even then, I...!"
"Even if everything is fictional... I'll believe in my feelings. If I can't believe in my feelings, then my existence will have no meaning. If we can change reality, then we won't be just fiction... Our lives will have significance. And hopefully... my feelings will have significance, too."
"Shuichi, you can change this world. Because...you're Kaito's sidekick."
Epilogue:

"So in the end...we still don't know what was true or not..."
"The fictional world ends here, and the real world lies out there. Perhaps just beyond here is the truth... But, maybe it isn't... Or maybe the outside world is the same as this world. It might be a world...filled with lies."
"Then, we need to see for ourselves whether this fictional world has changed the outside world. And what we can do from this point on..."
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

The nickname given to Maki by Kaito, "Harumaki" (ハルマキ), is a type of spring roll (春巻き). In the English localization, this was changed to "Maki roll", a type of rolled sushi wrapped in nori.
Maki, along with K1-B0 and Kaito, was the first new character revealed for Danganronpa V3 in November 2015. However, their names and talents weren't revealed until ten months later in September 2016.
In her Love Suite scene, her fantasy includes her and a friend from the same orphanage as her. They have known each other for 10 years and when they were younger, her friend mentioned he wants to make a real family with her while they were playing house. Maki says she never noticed her friend is in love with her and she is confused by her own feelings as well, but she realizes she likes him too. She simply wants to stay close to him and asks him to promise he will always be with her.
Maki's Japanese voice actress, Maaya Sakamoto, is married to Korekiyo Shinguji's Japanese voice actor Kenichi Suzumura.
Maki's English voice actress, Erica Mendez, also voices Nagisa Shingetsu.
On Maki's birthday in 2018, Kazutaka Kodaka tweeted an "in-character" birthday message to celebrate it.
The tweet translates into this:
Harukawa: "You can never know for sure if it’s my real birthday. It’s not a special date my parents told me about, it’s just a number written on a document filed who knows when. I never really cared about when my real birthday was… until now, that is… now that there’s people celebrating it for me, it gets me thinking about how happy birthdays are."
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Maki the 9th most popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Maki was voted the 9th most popular student in the electronic poll, and 4th through post cards.

Miu Iruma was a normal talentless high school girl who participated in the 53rd Season of Danganronpa, a famous worldwide reality show made by Team Danganronpa. Based on what little is seen of her before her false memories were implanted by the Flashback Light, she seemed rather brash, much like her personality in the killing game.

During her time in high school, Miu attended Shinmei Industries High School (神明工業高校). However, it is unclear if this memory of her is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it was genuine.

Fabricated Past
After she successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Miu's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

According to her, Miu used to be a boring, unremarkable girl with no talent at all. One day, she got into a car accident and was close to death, ending up in a coma. After the surgery, she barely managed to regain consciousness, and ever since her head has been full of ideas for all kinds of inventions. She began to believe that the surgery turned her into an "augmented human", explaining how she survived the coma and became an inventor.

Miu's career as an inventor included the commercialization of her "Eye-drop Contacts". However, because her principle motto is "how can you live life when you're so relaxed it's like you’re still asleep," she treats them as a failure.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Miu and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Miu was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participant, Miu and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Miu chose to forget about her Ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Miu and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Miu and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

In order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, the true Mastermind decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone was actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

While Miu did remember about the Ultimate Hunt in Chapter 2, hers and everyone else's funeral in Chapter 3, and the meteorite impacts in Chapter 4 thanks to the Flashback Light's, she ultimately has no complete recollection of the event, as she was murdered before she actually received a complete memory of The Gofer Project by the Flashback Light in Chapter 5.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Miu was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Miu was confused about their current predicament, but wondered what Rantaro Amami meant when he said that "this was exactly what he thought this was". Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived in their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light to make them more suitable for the Killing Game. Miu and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. She also received the talent and title of Ultimate Inventor. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Miu and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester. Students of Fabrication
Miu was later found rummaging through a shelf of chemicals in the warehouse by Kaede and Shuichi, the Ultimate Detective. Kaede tried to talk to her, but Miu rudely told her to back off. Shuichi criticized her for her vulgar language, but Miu then accused him of staring at her cleavage and called him a pervert, proudly declaring that only perverts wear hats. This provoked Shuichi and he shouted at her that if he wants to wear a hat, he can. Miu backed down at this, turning more nervous and meek compared to her prior aggressiveness. After Kaede said that she doesn't know her, Miu arrogantly introduced herself to the duo as the "Gorgeous girl genius whose good looks and golden brain would go down in history, and as the Ultimate Inventor. Despite this proud self-introduction, Kaede still never heard of her before. Miu told her that she invented eye-drop contacts as a gag at one point, Kaede said that some of her friends wore them, angering Miu, stating that that invention was a failure. When Kaede asked her what she was looking for before they arrived, Miu stated that she was looking for medicine in order to get high and forget about the situation she's in, much to Kaede's criticism, saying that she shouldn't use drugs for such a purpose. Miu went meek again and asked her to forgive her, though Kaede couldn't help but think that Miu is more insane than genius.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester
Miu would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs and Monokuma, the Monokuma Kubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game, much to almost everyone's shock and horror. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.

Attempting the Death Road of 
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Miu read the rules on her Monopad. A majority of the group wasn't sure what to do after reading these rules and began to panic and argue. Thanks to Kaede's motivational argument, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Miu along with everyone else immediately followed Gonta's lead, with hope of finding a way out.

Failed Death Road
Descending the manhole, Miu and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Miu and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Miu included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Miu headed to her assigned dorm room along with the others to get some rest, seeming fairly neutral on the issue, not taking any one side in particular.

The First and Additional 
After the first motive and additional motives are presented, the First Blood Perk and the time limit, Miu like almost everyone else, became increasingly concerned. Though when she asked that all they needed do was killed someone to get out, she seemed to draw some ire and suspicion from the rest of the group before timidly leaving the dining hall. Around this time her Research Lab also opened up.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara begging Miu Iruma to build cameras (3)
On the day before the time limit was up, Shuichi and Kaede went to Miu in order to ask her to make her some hidden cameras that they could use to catch the Mastermind. Miu aggressively refused at first but became very embarrassed when Kaede and Shuichi bowed to her, not backing down until Miu agreed to make the cameras. Eventually, she complied, and became even more embarrassed when Kaede shook her hand. She went back to her lab to wait for the duo to wait for bring her the supplies. Disturbingly, later on, she claimed that Kaede and Shuichi bowing to her "awakened" something in here.

On The 
On the final day of the time limit, Shuichi picked up the cameras from Miu, who had pulled an all-nighter making them. She told him about how the cameras cannot take another picture for thirty seconds after first taking a pictures. Shuichi would take this fact into account, but fail to mention it to Kaede later on, which would prove to be an almost fatal error on his part.

The rest of the students running into the libraryThat same evening, as the time limit was nearing its end, Miu stayed in the dining hall with Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist, Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, and Tsumugi Shirogane, the Ultimate Cosplayer. She was modifying an RC plane that she had picked up from the warehouse, bored after she finished making the cameras for Kaede and Shuichi. After the body discovery announcement played, Miu and the other four people in the dining hall rushed into the basement, being among the last group of people to come across Rantaro Amami's, the Ultimate ???'s corpse. When Miu saw his body, she disrespectfully stated that she thought he was a "pile of dirty rags" at first. When Shuichi and Kaede told everyone about their plan to catch the mastermind, Miu seemed annoyed that they used the cameras she had made for them for something like this. Iruma and her drone
During the investigation itself, Miu used a drone to capture the full layout of the library from an aerial view, so that she wouldn't have to do any actual investigating herself. This would later prove that Kaede Akamatsu, the supposed culprit behind Rantaro's murder case was indeed setting up a mechanism by lining up all books above the shelves as the path for her shot-put-ball in order to kill the "mastermind."

The First Class 
During the early stages of the Class Trial, Miu was accused by Kokichi of murdering Rantaro simply because she was the one who made the cameras without asking what they were for. Miu desperately tried to defend herself, but her suspicion was cleared by Kaede and Korekiyo, as it was impossible for the Ultimate Inventor to have killed Rantaro since she was in the dining hall during the murder. Miu called Korekiyo a slug for not saying so earlier then arrogantly praised Kaede, saying that she shouldn't have judged her for her "lackluster rack".

Later on during the trial, when everyone was split on whether or not to vote Shuichi as the culprit due to his silence about the camera intervals, Miu was on the side that accused him, saying that unlike herself who also failed to mention the intervals, she had an airtight alibi, unlike Shuichi.

After Shuichi was cleared of blame by Kaede and he accused her of being the culprit, wanting to carry on her wish, Miu was noticeably shocked. However, the floor plan that her drone had made during the investigation proved to be a key piece of evidence for finding Kaede guilty. Once the trial itself had concluded and it was learned that Kaede only did what she did for everyone's sake, Miu called Kaede an idiot for acting so recklessly despite the fact that she's only alive now because of that reckless act. After Kaede's execution, Miu was noticeably distressed, calling it overkill. As Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, prayed for Kaede to find peace, Miu asked her how anyone could rest in peace after dying in such a brutal way before everyone begrudgingly left the trial grounds.

Exploring the Rest of the 
The morning of the next day, Miu along with everyone else would gather in the dining hall once again and had a normal, but forced conversation to try and make themselves not think about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that would become unlocked would be the remaining second floor of the school, as well as the third floor, which contained Ryoma Hoshi's, the Ultimate Tennis Pro's, Research Lab. Upon discovering it with Shuichi and Ryoma, Miu took an interest in the equipment in there, seemingly becoming aroused by the "big metal arm" that was holding and swinging the tennis rackets. Miu jokingly told Ryoma and Shuichi to give each other a good "scrub-down" in the shower room, saying that Ryoma would be the perfect height for when he turned around to face Shuichi. This caused the Ultimate Tennis Pro to glare daggers at Miu, seemingly getting flashbacks from his time in prison.

Angie eventually told Miu and everyone to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight that she and Shuichi had discovered earlier. After everyone had gathered, Monokuma appeared and told the participants that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Miu included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

Momota losing to Hoshi In a bonus scene in Chapter 2, Miu, Korekiyo, Shuichi, Kokichi, and Ryoma gathered in the casino in hopes of playing a secret game with the medal that Shuichi had received from the Monomono Machine. However, Monokuma shows up and denies this, never stating such a thing in the first place and that the medal Shuichi had was just some knickknack he made for the Monokuma Kubs. Afterwards, Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, showed up as well, and everyone got roped into a gambling competition. Miu was initially accused of wanting to rig the gambling machines, but she laughed at Kaito as he lost over and over again to Ryoma. When Korekiyo began to explain various aspects of fortune and misfortune, Miu would interrupt him constantly to make dirty jokes, much to the Ultimate anthropologist's anger.
The Motive 
During that same night, the Monokuma Kubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. The next morning, Miu joined everyone in the dining hall in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. Despite Ryoma suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. Miu seemingly went along with everyone's decision, not caring if they exchanged their videos or not.

A Woman's Secret 
Gonta encountered a nude IrumaThe next day, unbeknownst to Miu, Gonta had come under the assumption that everyone hated bugs thanks to Kokichi's lies and began kidnapping various students into his Research Lab in order to get them to like bugs. In reality, Kokichi simply wanted to get everyone to watch their motive videos in order make the Killing Game "more interesting". Miu would be one of the few students that Gonta was unable to detain that same night because she had stripped down to her underwear to make the Ultimate Entomologist too flustered to touch her. The plan worked and Gonta ran away after describing that he had gotten a "weird feeling" after seeing Miu in just her underwear. Unbeknownst to Miu however, Kokichi would spot her running around the courtyard in just her underwear while getting everyone's motive videos for the Insect Meet and Great, baffling the Ultimate Supreme Leader. Although an absurd strategy, Miu's plan would give her an alibi for the upcoming trial the next day.
The Second Investigation and Class 
The very next day, Miu was one of the few who did not attend Himiko's magic show, where the next victim, Ryoma, would be found dead. After the body discovery announcement played, Miu came to the gym along with Kaito and Kokichi, once again disrespecting the victim by saying that Ryoma was fish food now, and fish "shit" tomorrow.

During the second trial, Shuichi was able to determine that Miu actually had an alibi due to hers and Gonta's statements matching up. She proudly proclaimed her reasoning and told Gonta that he should be glad he got to see her beautiful body, though it is clear that at the time, she was just as embarrassed as he was. She would also accuse Kirumi of being the culprit very early on in the trial, finding it suspicious that she had a chance to be alone in the gym. Ironically, despite having no evidence to back up her claim at the time, she would be proven right later on after Shuichi was able to pin the crime on her. Miu listened to Kirumi's motivations, shocked that she was supposedly the de facto Prime Minister of Japan, and then watched as she was executed by Monokuma.

K1-B0's 
The next morning, at Kokichi's request after unveiling Maki's true talent the night prior, Miu along with everyone else barring Maki paid a visit to the "Ultimate Child Caregiver's Research Lab" only to discover various weapons all throughout the lab, proving that Maki was, in, fact the Ultimate Assassin, not a child caregiver. Miu assumed that she hid her true talent from everyone in order to kill someone while everyone was unaware, just as assassins tend to do, though Kaito reassured everyone and said that he would take care of Maki. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy.

Iruma fixing Ki-BoWhile everyone else was busy searching the new areas of the academy, Miu dragged K1-B0 into her Research Lab in order to "perform maintenance" on him. Miu was very interested in the Ultimate Robot to a disturbing, erotic degree, much to his embarrassment. K1-B0 however, let her do whatever she pleased if it meant she would help him, saying that he had been neglecting his own needs ever since arriving at the Ultimate Academy. Miu told him to relax while she tended to him in "various ways". While it came off as odd initially, she was actually upgrading K1-B0 with flashlight function and a function that allows him to quite literally print out his memory. Both features would turn out to be highly useful in the next case and trial.
Later on, Miu would gather with everyone else in the dining hall in order to inspect the new Flashback Light that Shuichi found. Upon using it, everyone remembered what seemed to be their own funeral, much to the student's confusion. Kaito reassured everyone that there's no way the funeral could be real considering they were all still here and alive. His small speech seemed to work, as everyone perked back up, enjoyed a small meal, then headed back to their dorms.

Angie's Student 
Miu gathered with everyone in the gymnasium the very next morning at the Monokuma Kubs request. The participants were presented with the third motive, the Necronomicon, and were told that they would be able to bring back someone who had died already as a transfer student. This motive baffled the students, but Miu wrote it off as unscientific nonsense.

However, Angie seemed to embrace the motive, saying the "corpses" so far may have just been very accurate imitations to make the real people seem dead. Some of the students argued that there's no way that's possible, but Gonta said that more letters were added to the rock in the courtyard, deducing that perhaps the four people who had died are actually alive and wrote that message. Angie praised Gonta and, like Himiko before him, pulled him into a hug. She instilled hers and Atua's authority into him by reassuring him that he's not alone and that Atua is like a gentle grandmother that always keeps him safe, effectively playing off of Gonta's desire for a motherly figure.

It is then revealed that Angie had actually met up with a number of students the night prior and put together a Student Council in order to end the killing game, but Miu had nearly nothing to do with them. She didn't care at all about the student council or the rules they attempted to enforce, viewing Angie as crazy. Instead, she grew very interested in the computer room on the fourth floor, spending all day and night examining it, saying that it's so good that it "wouldn't let her sleep".

The Third Investigation and 
Two days after the motive is presented, when Angie and Tenko Chabashira, the Ultimate Aikido Master, is murdered, Miu didn't do any real helping with the investigation. She was simply proud to show off K1-B0's new features during the investigation and the trial, even if she had originally installed them in him for less pure reasons.

During the third trial itself, Miu was confident that Korekiyo murdered Angie based on no evidence or critical thinking whatsoever. Even though his supposed innocence was proven not long afterward, It turned that once again, Miu had it right all along, because the clues used to prove Korekiyo murdered Tenko linked him to Angie's murder as well. Miu listened to Korekiyo tell everyone his absurd motivations before he was executed.

Remembering the 
The very next morning following the third class trial, everyone would gather in the dining hall yet again. The group became disheartened to see how many people they had lost up until now. Monokuma then showed up along with his Kubs to hand out the next set of random items to unlock more areas with, along with a card key that according to Monophanie would be the next motive, though Kokichi stole it and ran off. One area that became unlocked would be the Ultimate Robot's Research Lab, which connected to Miu's Research Lab. While K1-B0 didn't seem that interested in the lab, not fond of the sci-fi feel, Miu seemed more interested in it.

The Gofer Project MeteoritesEveryone later regathered in the dining hall to investigate yet another Flashback Light. Once used on themselves, everyone remembered the meteorites that impacted the Earth and that it was described as being very similar to the meteor impact that wiped out the dinosaurs millions of years ago. They also remembered basic details of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project saying that mankind deserved damnation, and the Gofer Project itself. Miu could only laugh sarcastically, saying that they all may as well be damned for having to be trapped within the walls of this school and that being stuck with the rest of the participants was the worst hell there was. She had finally grown tired of their situation, panicking and shouting to let them out.
Miu's 
Miu's anxiety, fear of betrayal, and being trapped within the school had finally reached its limit and would lead to her attempting to murder Kokichi, thinking that the world needed her and her inventions. During her investigation of the computer on the fourth floor, she had found out that it was a killing game simulator, but she reprogrammed it to get rid of all the dangerous items and make all objects unbreakable. She also added a wall in the simulator that would only allow objects to pass through. In order to make her murder plan succeed, she purposefully neglected to remove a hammer that would be her murder weapon. She also gave herself an in-game phone that she could use to log out anyone she wanted, hoping to frame Kaito. She also gave Kokichi's avatar a special setting that would cause him to freeze if Miu touched him.

She would tell Kokichi about what she did in the computer room but keep her murder plan a secret. Despite this, Kokichi was easily able to see through her and as a result, began a murder plan of his own using Miu's simulator and her plan to his advantage. At some point, Kokichi would also meet with Miu in her lab and requested her to make the electrobombs and electrohammers used in Chapter 5 by the remaining students to cross the Death Road of Despair. She also made a universal remote control that could hack into any electronic object. Kokichi was also suspicious about the "tiny bugs" that Gonta kept seeing around the school and as such, also asked Miu to make something called a "bugvac" in order to suck up the tiny bugs. It was here that Kokichi saw just how much Miu feared betrayal and the killing game itself, having no intention of defying Monokuma, but pleaded that if Kokichi and the others did find a way out to not leave her behind.

Neo World 
Miu Iruma being Ironic 2 For several days, Miu would remain in the computer room in order to modify it to make it usable for her plan. Once it was finally ready, Miu gathered everyone in the computer room, lying to them all about a way to escape the killing game. Kokichi told her to drop to her knees and beg if they wanted them to listen to her, to which she did. She then explained key points about the program and what she did to modify it, making sure to keep all relevant details about her murder plan a secret. Around this time, the amnesiac Monotaro seemed to acknowledge her as her mother, which Miu accepted without question. The group preparing to go into the Neo World Program With her persuasion, everyone used the headsets to log in to the virtual world. Before Miu logged in and after everyone else did however, she secretly placed a bottle of poison from Shuichi's Research Lab by Kokichi's seat, wanting to make it appear as if he died from poison instead of dying within the program. Once everyone logged in, Miu continued to explain more aspects that were unique to the virtual world, including a map that showed the world's layout and that everyone's avatars were equal in strength. Kokichi and Gonta would separate from the group for a brief period of time while everyone else headed to the chapel, using a nearby sign as a bridge to cross the river. Everyone searched for the secret of the outside world that was supposedly hidden inside the program.
While everyone else remained ignorant of Miu's true intentions, she began to go through with her plan. She threw the signboard used as a bridge in the river in order to keep the group exploring the mansion and chapel separate. She logged Kaito out using her cellphone, then secretly went over to the wall she added that let only objects pass through and phased through it, ending up by the mansion instead of the chapel. She was able to do this because she had changed her own avatar's settings from "human" to "object" beforehand. Unbeknownst to her, she was seen going through the wall by Gonta, who only recently learned of the secret of the outside world thanks to Kokichi's meddling and as a result, would assist the Ultimate Supreme Leader in his own murder plan. Tsumugi also thought she had seen Miu from the dining hall window while she searched for the secret of the outside world.

Miu's 
Miu Iruma's avatar strangled to death by Gonta Gokuhara's avatar Kokichi met up with Miu on the roof, pretending to still be unaware of her plan. While Miu was still hesitant, she still told Kokichi that it would be better if he just gave up, completely unaware that Kokichi had known about her plan all along. Before Miu could make any moves, Gonta came out from hiding and strangled her with a roll of toilet paper from behind, killing her and thus, having her own plan used against her. Kokichi locked the door to the roof, then instructed Gonta on what to do, sliding her body off the roof using the lattice to ensure that she would go through the wall and end up back on the chapel side. Kokichi then told Gonta to put the toilet paper back in the bathroom after using it to get off the roof but was unable to properly dispose of it before meeting up with the others.
Everyone in the virtual world heard the sound of Miu crashing into the chapel wall, even the people on the mansion side due to both buildings actually being right next to each other. After everyone regrouped and logged out to check on Miu, they found her dead in her own chair, grasping her windpipe. She had died from the shock of her avatar being killed, which she stated was possible due to their avatars being connected to their five senses.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 4 Body Discovery
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 4 Body Discovery

Everyone aside from Kokichi was dumbfounded as to how she was killed. Gonta had no memory of murdering her due to mixing up the consciousness and memory cords of his headset before logging into the program. Monotaro was incredibly saddened at the loss of his "mother". With that, the investigation had begun for the fourth time.

The Fourth Class 
During the fourth class trial, everyone was able to deduce Miu's true intentions in the virtual world, that she had planned Kokichi's murder. Everyone was left stunned at this, unsure what to think of Miu after this. When Gonta was accused of being her killer, he couldn't believe that he would do such a terrible thing. Despite the group's disunity, Shuichi was able to make Gonta realize he killed the Ultimate Inventor. While Gonta still didn't understand, he still sadly went along with everyone's decision and was executed by Monokuma.

Miu's 
Although she had betrayed everyone, the electrohammers, electrobombs, and the universal control she had invented would prove highly useful for the rest of the group and Kokichi's plans in Chapter 5. Everyone acknowledged that Miu had truly done a lot for them despite her crude personality.

Creation and 

Miu's first name can translate as "beautiful rabbit" - possibly referencing her two ahoges. Her last name, "Iruma", can be loosely translated as "entering space," but can also refer to the name of a city in Saitama perfecture.

Alternate 
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Miu was first seen inside the girl's bathroom. She introduced herself as the mighty, greatest inventor all of time to Kaede Akamatsu. In instant, Miu nicknamed her as "Miss Piggy/Pig Tits" and bragging about useful products that she invented.


Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Miu Iruma
Miu is a tall young woman with long strawberry blonde hair and two ahoges. She has icy blue eyes, and her irises, as well as the rings around her pupils, have an unusual, ragged pattern, making them appear slightly mechanical-looking and thus possibly referencing her talent.

Miu wears brown goggles with yellow accents on her head. She wears a modified pink sailor school uniform and a matching skirt, her collar noticeably exposing her cleavage, lacking the cover on her chest. She wears black and studded fingerless glove, with black heeled-boots with gold buttons and buckles on them. She has black straps connected with gold rings attached to her white socks, and over her clothes, gold ring covering her blue ribbon around her collar. She wears a black choker, and two smaller black collars that resemble barbed wire made out of rubber around her neck. On her uniforms collar, she wears a pin of the mouse mascot from Niko Niko Happy.

In the box art, Miu has a metal backpack hanging from her shoulders that has two long metal arms extending from it, lighting a red candle

In the Prologue, Miu wears a white blouse with a messily unbuttoned collar, an orange plaid ribbon sloppily tied into an uneven bow. Her blouse sleeves are rolled up to her elbows, and the shirt is tucked beneath her brown, plaid pleated skirt. She has two orange hairpins on the right side of her bangs. She wears dark teal knee-high socks and black penny loafers.


Miu is described as an oddball, having an overly confident, loud personality and a frighteningly sharp tongue. She considers herself a beautiful genius, and every time she opens her mouth she spews a parade of reckless vulgar remarks and insults, strongly putting pressure on others and looking down on them. In the original Japanese, she even uses the Japanese word "ore-sama" to refer herself, which is considered very arrogant and more traditionally masculine. She also tends to give other characters insulting nicknames.

However, Miu's arrogant personality seems to be only a mask which can drop fairly easily. This often happens when her festival of coarse language and dirty jokes actually get replied or ignored. Then, her personality quickly changes into a timid weakling, who is terrified of other people being angry with her.Because of this, she has the charm similar to an innocent child.

As an inventor, Miu is skilled but also an eccentric who treats her failed projects with the idea that "I transferred the rights to the company, so it's got nothing to do with me".She has made all kinds amazing conviniences both inside and outside of the game, but only deems her inventions as a success when they help the user to perform a task while sleeping (it's possible this is because she suffered from a coma in the past). She also has a habit to make very bizarre, seemingly pointless inventions which are very sexual in nature, including a "Hookup Counter" which tells how many people you've had sexual intercourses with, an "Auto-Puncher that Punches You for Telling Terrible Dirty Jokes", and a "Goin' Commando gun" which can teleport underwear and only underwear. Even seemingly innocent inventions such as Electrohammers and Electrobombs can have dirty innuendos, as in the Japanese version the word "elect" can also be read as "erect". Nevertheless, Miu has also used her remarkable talent to make very useful inventions as well, though in most cases they were concepts created and requested by other students or something she created because she was bored. It is also shown that as an inventor, she firmly believes in science and finds Himiko's insistence in magic and Angie's talk about Atua very annoying.

Created to be the "naughtiest character in the series' history", Miu appears very perverted and openly says bizarre, obscene things during her arrogant mood, meaning almost constantly.She often claims that she just says them to lighten up the mood, but they are very much disliked by the other students. Despite often trying to act dominant and appear sadistic, Miu is also masochistic and into BDSM, and acts very different during her weak-willed moments. Despite her usual arrogant behavior, she seems very uncomfortable if other people actually act very submissive towards her, like when Kaede and Shuichi begged for her help and she begun to sweat nervously and agreed just to make them stop (though she later claimed that the situation turned her on). She has many kinks, some of which she seems to casually admit, including bondage and hot wax (which is also seen in her official art). She also seems way too interested in her own feces. She appears to have some sort of fetish for machines as well and at one point she is seen acting very suggestive towards a computer, and she is also very much attracted to K1-B0. Furthermore, in her last free time event with Shuichi, she tries to give him a pie with her hair in it. She also baked cookies with her fingernails and made chocolate with her blood as ingredients. Disturbingly, she says that she wants the person she loves to eat a little piece of her.

Miu has a very cowardly and self-centered personality, immediately looking for excuses to be absent from the Class Trial after being reminded that she would be executed with everyone else if they reach the wrong conclusion. Also, despite her amazing inventive genius, she is rather dumb when it comes to other matters, being usually ignored by the other characters during the trials. During investigations and trials, she generally spouts out whatever theories come to her mind at the moment without thinking them through, and she can make rather unwise decisions and actions. Because of this, Himiko has described her as "really smart, but also really, really dumb". She is generally not liked in the group, and according to Kokichi, she is the least well-liked student after him. During her trial, many students admitted that they probably wouldn't have been friends with her even if they had met outside the Killing Game.

Despite her timid personality, she genuinely believes her bragging, to the point she is willing to kill Kokichi because she believes the world needs her while claiming to have no personal grudges against him. Though, it should be noted that she seemingly wished to help the world and its people with her inventions (which are proven to be very remarkable) after learning about the meteors and how bad the situation on Earth supposedly is. During her Free Time Events, it's revealed that she is convinced she is an augmented human as a result of surviving a coma and a surgery, which supposedly explains some of her behavior. In a flashback conversation with Kokichi, she is also shown to suffer from trust issues and fear of betrayal after everything that's happened in the killing game. Her Love Suite event implies she might suffer from abandonment issues. The aforementioned event and her behavior towards Monotaro might also indicate that she likes children. According to Kaede, Miu may have trouble with communication because she has never had any friends. According to K1-B0, Miu is a good person and has natural innocence hidden deep inside her, despite how she appears on the outside, and it's implied that she acted more like her true self in K1-B0's company.


Ultimate 
Miu's talent as the Ultimate Inventor is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Miu is a supreme inventor in the past.

Danganronpa V3 Miu Iruma Introduction (Demo Version)
Miu is a very skilled inventor, and she has created lots of ground-breaking products, her first invention being "Eye-Drop Contacts".

Miu also invented many useful products such as a product that can help one to type on the keyboard, reading manga and understand it, and eating meals all done while the user is sleeping.She makes automatic sensor cameras at Shuichi Saihara's request and several items for Kokichi Oma, such as the machine-disabling Elect Hammers and Elect Bombs, a remote-controller than can hijack Exisals and a vacuum cleaner that can capture and release Monochicchis. Her Elect Hammers prove very useful when her friends manage to complete the tunnel dungeon in Chapter 5.

She also performs regular maintenance on K1-B0, including adding new functions, like lamps and a photographic camera.

In other 
Miu's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Inventor
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「発明家」	Super High School Level Inventor
Français Inventrice Ultime	Ultimate Inventor
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的發明家	Super High School Level Inventor
中文 超高中级的发明家	Super High School Level Inventor

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
K1-B0
With Miu being quite disliked in the group, K1-B0 appears to be the only student, other than Kaede and Gonta, who genuinely likes her and wishes to be friends with her.

At first, Miu considered K1-B0 pathetic for being so weak, offering to upgrade him later (and especially wishing to upgrade his crotch area). Because he is a robot, Miu took a special interest in K1-B0 and even feels sexual attraction towards him, though it's unclear if he is aware of this. Since K1-B0 was unable to take care of his body by himself, Miu was very excited to offer her help. However, K1-B0 felt very embarrassed and shy about it, considering it very intimate and saying they shouldn't do it so soon. In Chapter 3, Miu seems to finally convince K1-B0 and she begins to perform maintenance on him in a rather suggestive manner they both seem to find very pleasurable, with K1-B0 making "cute noises" whenever Miu touches a sensitive spot. Her intense personality makes K1-B0 feel very shy and he blushes a lot due to Miu's compliments and remarks. Miu, in turn, thinks he's very cute with his shyness and cute noises, and while she usually prefers to be submissive, she seems to enjoy being dominating towards K1-B0.

When K1-B0's Ultimate Research Lab was revealed, Miu was very excited to upgrade him even more, saying he would look so pretty with them and that she wants him to make lots of cute noises. This causes K1-B0 to blush heavily and tell her not to mention that in front of Shuichi, who was with them at the time. Being very interested in K1-B0's talent and features, Miu went inside his lab without his permission. Besides that, she added many new features to K1-B0, such as flashlight that came out from his eyes. She also wishes to give him a vibration function, but he declined, seemingly understanding at least some of her suggestive remarks.

While Miu is very openly attracted to K1-B0 and seems to think their relationship is something similar to being a couple, it's a bit unclear how he feels about her, as he doesn't really speak of her in an explicitly romantic manner like he does with Shuichi in the bonus mode Love Across the Universe. He does not seem to be fully aware of some of her implications, but genuinely cares about her and is very grateful for her help. It is also possible that he likes her back, but isn't fully aware of it. In Chapter 3, when Miu praises a computer in a suggestive manner, K1-B0 is seen to get silently jealous. K1-B0 is shown to be nicer and more sympathetic towards Miu than the most other students, though Miu is occasionally rude towards him, and K1-B0 understandably doesn't seem to have complete trust in her intentions at times. When at one point Miu pointed out that robots aren't people, K1-B0 didn't appear as offended as usual and said he would let the remark slide, showing that he has more patience with her.

K1-B0 was shocked when he discovered Miu's corpse in Chapter 4 and he was the only one to still speak fondly of her even after the chapter. After her death, he states that he wishes he could cry, but Miu never gave him a crying function. During the trial, he mentions that he believes Miu was a good person based on the time they spent together, despite some of her personality traits. Later, in Chapter 5, he wistfully talks to Shuichi about how genuine Miu was with machines and technology, and that she had natural innocence she hid deep inside her, indicating that she showed her true self more openly in his company. However, when the students are introduced to the Electro Hammers, K1-B0 appears to genuinely wonder whether or not they will affect him and if Miu considered him just a robot.

In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, the two appear to be close as well, and Miu takes care of K1-B0's maintenance for their three high school years. K1-B0 tells her how grateful he is and that he will miss being able to ask her in the future. Miu is very offended by this, asking K1-B0 why he's going to throw her away and assumes that he has other partners than her. K1-B0 tries to explain they're graduating soon, but Miu is still angry. He then tells her that it would be good to have someone like her who is good with technology to care for him. Miu answers that he can stay in her place and the two agree to continue their usual habit, with K1-B0 thanking Miu in advance.

Kokichi 
Miu feels irritated by Kokichi and believes that he is the mastermind. She insults him by calling him a shota and a compulsive liar (in the English version, she goes even further by calling him "lying little abortion"). Kokichi, in turn, is shown to be very mean-spirited and nasty towards Miu, often calling her by derogatory terms like a whore and a bitch, and saying that she's things like ugly, smelly and useless. He also often insults her and calls her a pervert due to her sexual nature. Kokichi's treatment of Miu seems much harsher than with anyone else as he quite often appears more serious while insulting her, though being a masochist Miu often just enjoys the insults. In her relationship chart, he orders her to get on her knees. The two are seen insulting each other multiple times during the trials, with Kokichi winning these debates due to his stronger personality.

In chapter 2, Kokichi witnessed Miu in the dark, walking around in her underwear in the courtyard, as a tactic to escape Gonta. During the investigation, Kokichi tells the others about the situation and how strange it was, with him appearing visibly disappointed. He later mocks her during the trial for being perverted.

In chapter 4, Miu tried to ask everyone to enter the virtual world and ordered them to bow to her, but Kokichi told her that she should be the one bowing since she is asking something from them. Unlike in many earlier situations, Miu seems very uncomfortable by this and appears very down after obeying Kokichi's command. In the virtual world, Miu attempted to murder Kokichi and placed a bottle of poison on his chair to make it look like he got poisoned. However, Kokichi lured Gonta into killing Miu by strangling her with a roll of toilet paper. Later when Gonta was found as a culprit, Kokichi told Monokuma to execute him as well which could imply he felt guilt, but he appeared to mostly feel bad for Gonta instead of Miu.

In chapter 5, it's revealed that Kokichi talked with Miu before the fourth murder happened and asked her to make various inventions to fight against Monokuma. While Miu agreed to create the inventions, she explained that she wouldn't cooperate with the others because she believed there would inevitably be a betrayal. Kokichi listened to her words seriously and later appeared to feel genuinely bad for her when he told the others about the conversation. Despite her murder attempt, Miu claims to have no particular ill-intent against Kokichi.

Kaede 
Miu and Kaede's relationship can be a bit negative at times, as Miu has a tendency to insult her just like she insults everyone else, and specifically calls her "Kaeidiot" (Bakamatsu in Japanese) and keeps calling her breasts tiny. However, while Kaede can be a bit annoyed by Miu's rudeness, she feels sympathetic and protective of her whenever she shows her weaker side.

In Chapter 1, when Kaede begs on her knees for Miu's help, Miu appears uncomfortable despite her usual arrogant behavior. When she agrees, the former grabs her hands in joy and causes Miu to sweat.

In Miu's second Free Time Event with Kaede, Kaede appears worried about Miu, because it seems like she has never had any friends, and wishes to help her to become better at communicating. However, even Kaede is tired after talking with Miu in an attempt to help her.

Miu is also noticeably distraught after Kaede is found guilty.

Miu appears to feel some attraction towards Kaede. During their first Free Time Event together, Kaede has finally had enough of Miu's rude behavior and she tells Miu that her breasts are actually pretty big. Miu then wants to rub her to make sure, saying there's no problem because they're both girls, but Kaede is uncomfortable and smacks her a little in order to defend herself. If Kaede gives her a gift she really likes, Miu blushes shyly and wonders if Kaede is really into her, possibly explaining how she knew what to give Miu. Miu then returns to her arrogant mood and laughs that of course a "flat-chested idiot" like Kaede would fall for a brainy, busty beauty like her. Later, in Chapter 3, Miu also tries to see if the wax figure of Kaede that Angie made is wearing any underwear.

Shuichi 
When Shuichi and Kaede first approached Miu, she assumed that Shuichi was staring at her breasts. Miu then called Shuichi a pervert and that was why he wore a hat. However, Shuichi then stands up for himself and Miu gets startled by this as she thought he was a weakling.

During the Love Suite event, Shuichi had the role of Miu's childhood friend. Miu tells Shuichi that she would allow him to sleep with her. Shuichi gets confused and Miu immediately gets annoyed at him. Shuichi asks her what she meant and Miu becomes annoyed and sad and wonders how he could be her childhood friend if he couldn't remember. She explains that when they were younger he always took care of her and still to this day. She says that he is the only one who knows her true self and he helped her to become the Ultimate Inventor. Miu then says she wants to have Shuichi's kids and he immediately becomes shocked again. Miu then says how talented their kids would be with both of their talents combined. Shuichi becomes silent and Miu gets upset again as she thinks she's not good enough for him and wants to have his kids so he can't get rid of her. Shuichi begins to stutter as Miu tries to force him into having sex with her. Miu then moves towards Shuichi. It is implied that they slept together afterward.

Kaito 
Being the two loudest and outspoken characters, they get into disagreements. These disagreements can cause them to throw insults at each other. During the Danganronpa V3 demo, Miu calls Kaito a "flower-garden brained idiot." Because these two can get emotional, both can end up losing their tempers, with Kaito scaring Miu in the end.

Gonta 
Gonta is one of the very few, along with Kaede and K1-B0, who wished to be friends with Miu. After Miu's death, he didn't blame her for attempting murder, believing she was a good person and the killing game situation was at fault. With his good-heartedness, he was surprised and shocked to hear that most of the other students wouldn't have been friends with Miu even outside the killing game.

Himiko 
Miu is often annoyed by Himiko's insistence on magic, at one point calling her a con artist. She also repeatedly insults her small chest and face, calling her things like "midget" and "donkey-lipped".

Angie 
In chapter 3, Miu is one of the students who antagonized Angie's Student Council, as she considers God's existence to be unscientific. She is also annoyed when the Student Council begins to limit the other students' freedom.

After Angie's death, in the next chapter, Miu is seen being happy and relieved that Angie died because it stopped all the annoying talk about Atua.

Tenko Chabashira 
Miu is hostile towards Tenko, showing no signs of grief after her death and even calling her a rude nickname immediately after her death. After Tenko makes a perverted comment in Chapter 2, Miu tells her to "stay in her lane", possibly indicating that Miu was worried Tenko's subtly perverted personality would eventually steal attention away from her's.

Monokuma Kubs:

During Chapter 4, Monotaro suffered from severe memory issues and believed that Miu was his mother. Miu really liked the idea of being a "mommy" and accepted him right away, while K1-B0 strongly denied that he's Monotaro's father. Monotaro seemed to love his adoptive mother and supported her more than anyone else. When she died, Monotaro cried for her and helped the students to catch the culprit by accessing the Neo World Program's data in the Computer Room.

When Monotaro regained his memories, he was no longer on Miu's side, but still cared for her and called her his mother.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Miu Iruma, Hotel Kumasutra#Miu Iruma

Miu Pixel Head Icon
Miu Iruma
Loves:	021. Bondage Boots, 029. Wearable Blanket, 039. Story of Tokono, 072. Work Chair Of Doom, 107. Tentacle Machine, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	002. Boba Tea, 004. Cleopatra's Pearl Cocktail, 005. Non-Alcoholic Drink of Immortality, 009. Astro Cake, 010. Bubble Gum Bomb, 013. Bunny Apples, 014. Rock Hard Ice Cream, 015. Sukiyaki Caramel, 019. Crystal Bangle, 022. Ultimate Academy Bracelet, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 033. Dog Tag, 036. Feelings of Ham, 038. Dreams Come True ☆ Spell Book, 041. Fun Book of Animals, 042. Latest Machine Parts Catalogue, 045. High-End Headphones, 052. Photoshop Software, 059. Plastic Moon Buggy Model, 060. I'm a Picture Book Artist!, 062. Commemorative Medal Set, 067. Proxilingual Device, 076. Robot Oil, 077. Clock-Shaped Gaming Console, 082. Upbeat Humidifier, 083. Earnest Compass, 086. Pillow of Admiration, 089. Art Piece of Spring, 090. Electric Tempest, 094. Helping Yacchi, 095. Home Planet, 097. Sparkly Sheet, 103. Perfect Laser Gun, 105. Bear Ears, 110. Fully-Automated Shaved Ice Machine, 111. Gun of Man's Passion

DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"Huh? S-Seriously? You don't... know who I am? I'm the gorgeous girl genius whose good looks and golden brain will go down in history! I'm the one, the only, the legendary Ultimate Inventor herself - Miu Iruma!"
"It's just...you guys are dumber than fleas and twice as insignificant! How could I not laugh!? Hah-hahaha!"
"If ya ask me, solving this case is easier than... making a virgin cum in his pants!"
"Huh? You and me? Hah, that's a good one! That's almost as funny as your tiny blueberry pancake nipples!"
"Hey! Don't lump me in with that idiot! You're talkin' to the gorgeous girl genius, Miu Iruma!"
"You sure? Cuz Miss Andry over there looks like she could pummel a dude to death."
"You got quite a pair of ladyballs to start sluttin' it up when my life is on the line!"
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"Help yourself! A guy like you can only dream of landin' a big-boobed hottie like me! Go on, get yourself a good eyeful!"
"Hah-haha! Everyone knows that only pervs wear hats!" (talking about Shuichi)
"If you startle me into losing motivation, that loss will be felt across the whole world!"
"It doesn't make you more productive while you sleep, so it was a failure! Just like you two!"
"... I just wanna set my mind free and forget all about this shitty situation!"
"Wh-What the hell...? My genius can't be constrained by the wisdom of the masses..."
Chapter 1:

"Even I can't handle these intense vibrations! And trust me-I've got loads of experience!"
"An important hole near some bush!? sounds familiar, am I right ladies!?"
"Kh...This bullshit is a waste of my precious time and energy."
"What? You must be a real fuckin' skank to let dudes unload inside you! By day you're fingerin' the piano keys, but at night the dudes are fingerin' you, eh!?"
"Th-There's gotta be somethin' we can do... I can't die... The world needs my genius!"
"Investigating is the same thing as not trusting each other."
"I'm always wet! I'm just feelin' extra sensitive, like these big boobs of mine..."
"Hyah-hahahahaha! I know, I know... Beauty *and* brains? Why, it's just not fair!"
"H-How's anyone supposed to rest in peace after getting killed like *that*!?"
Chapter 2:

"Keh! Quit fussin' over some lousy graffiti and worry about your shitty future instead!"
"If anything happens to me, y'all better beg my fans, the world, and humanity for forgiveness!"
"You've made a discovery that even I, the gorgeous girl genius Miu Iruma, couldn't find... How could I be bested by the beta of all betas!?"
"Detectives get excited for casino games just like boys get excited for holes!"
"A couple of virgins senakin' around sounds like bad news to me!"
"They increased *that* significantly!? I didn't know piranhas fuck like rabbits!"
"Well, when you got the body of a goddess, it's only natural to wanna flaunt it!"
"I show my panties to the boys all the time! And I mean, *all* the time!"
"Dudes just need to shut up and take their licks!"
"Thomas Edison once said that genius is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration... But in my case, it's 100% inspiration!"
"Hahahaha! I dunno why, but idiots always fill me with inspiration!"
Chapter 3:

"Cuz that thing is amazing! The more I research it, the more excited I get! Ahhh, I bet it won't let me sleep tonight! At this rate I might pull all my groin muscles! Heh! Hehehehehehe!"
"W-Wait...do you have a doll fetish? Are you excited that your dead girlfriend is a doll now? If you like wax dolls so much, then go fuck the doll already!"
"Mwah-hahahahaha! Shine on, shine on! Shine on, you crazy fuckin' diamond!"
"These golden brain cells of mine are a gift to the entire world!"
"...Wait, what!? There's no way a genius like me would make that kinda rookie mistake!"
"Hey! If you're gonna fuck me in front of everyone, at least buy me dinner first!"
"What? But...how could my golden brain be wrong when it felt so, so right?"
"No, it's still wrong to think that Tenko was killed during the seance. I'm gonna prove it right now... My golden brain is gonna go all out!"
"Lemme put on some makeup, cuz I wanna at least look pretty before you decided to fuck me!"
"Don't you understand? My life is riding on the outcome of this trial!"
"Sh-Shit is a great indicator of intestinal health and gut bacteria quality! Plus, taking a satisfying shit does wonders for a woman's natural beauty, so..."
"Braggin' about your perfect love life? Fuck you! Some of us aren't that lucky...!"
Chapter 4:

"That's obviously a lie! That plush bear is stuffed with lies and shit!"
"Being stuck here with you losers is the worst hell there is!"
"It sure is quieter now that no one's yappin' "Atua this, Atua that" anymore! I knew that fuckin' midget was running a goddamn cult! I mean, if there really was a god... He'd obviously make me, the gorgeous girl genius, his chosen one! Hah-hahaha! That kooky fuckin' bitch!"
"I'm serious, there's no reason for Gonta to do something so reckless. Because I, Miu Iruma, the gorgeous girl genius, will save you all! I'll bring you to a world where the killing game doesn't exist!"
"Duh-doy! Of course there is! Geniuses like me never make mistakes!"
"A paradise more beautiful than the real world, where there's no murder and no Monokuma!" (about the Neo World Program)
"My inventions will change the world... They'll make the world a better place! It's my duty as a genius inventor! S-So I can't afford to die here—"
Chapter 5 (Flashback):

"It doesn't matter if we promise to work together... Someone will still betray us... Betray us and...kill one of us..."
"There's no way we can beat him... And...I can't afford to die here, anyway... Not when I still need to invent something that's gonna change the world! S-So...if you wanna defy Monokuma, do it yourself. But, if it does work out...come to help me, okay? I'll do anything—anything!—to thank you..."
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Miu has an unused sprite in which she holds a disturbing spiky dildo in her hand. This sprite was first discovered within in the game files. According to Kodaka, it was going to be used for her most angry moments, but they were "forbidden to use it for ethical reasons".
Miu and Ryoma are the only Class Trial Participants that never join Kaede or Shuichi's side in Debate Scrums.
Miu's Death Portrait from Chapter 4 onwards is adorned with 3 x's, usually signifying sexual adult content, which reflects her personality when she was alive.
Famitsu Scan September 29th, 2016 Page 3
On September 29, 2016 Famitsu scan, her first name in kanji was written as 未兎, meaning "not rabbit-like", instead of 美兎.
Her Japanese voice actress, Haruka Ishida, previously played Chihiro Fujisaki in Danganronpa: Kibō no Gakuen to Zetsubō no Kōkōsei THE STAGE (2014).
Miu's English voice actress, Wendee Lee, also voiced Akane Owari and Teruteru Hanamura's Mother.
According to Kazutaka Kodaka, Danganronpa series creator, he expected Miu to be a character who would be unpopular with the fans.
However, in a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Miu the 4th most popular out of the 16 Danganronpa V3 students.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Miu was voted the 11th most popular student in the electronic poll, and 3rd through post cards.


Ryoma Hoshi was a normal talentless high school boy who participated in the 53rd Season of Danganronpa, a famous worldwide reality show made by Team Danganronpa.

Ryoma attended Fog Heights High School (霞ヶ丘高校). However, it is unclear if this memory of his is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it is genuine.

Fabricated Past
After he successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Ryoma's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

Ryoma was a tennis player with a promising future, world famous since his middle school days and winning many international matches.

One day, Ryoma was invited to play in an underground tournament hosted by a group of mafia. He accepted the invitation but found out that he was fooled and was actually playing in fixed matches. At first, he played along with the mafia's plan until he decided to crush his last enemy whom he was supposed to lose to. Having destroyed the mafia's reputation, they began to massacre Ryoma's family. He managed to get his girlfriend to a safety somewhere at first, but her hiding place was located and they eventually killed her as well, leaving only Ryoma who barely escaped the massacre.

He began to kill mafia members by hitting them in the head with his custom-made steel tennis ball. The entire organization was annihilated and as a result, he earned the alias Killer Tennis. He ended up a prisoner on death row, seemingly throwing his whole future away.Being an animal lover since a young age, he owned a pet cat he loved very much. However, he had to give it to an acquaintance after becoming a prisoner.

Due to losing his loved ones and becoming a murderer, Ryoma believes his former self is gone and he doesn't have much will to live, believing that even his beloved cat must have long forgotten him. He became very depressed and rather suicidal. He has also indicated that he has suffered from sexual harassment during his time in prison.

It is unclear how much, if any, of Ryoma's past before participating in the 53rd Killing Game was real, and which was a fabrication by Team Danganronpa.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Ryoma and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Ryoma was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participate however, Ryoma and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Ryoma chose to forget about his Ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Ryoma and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Ryoma and the others to participate in the Killing Game School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, the true Mastermind, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, were actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair, and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush however, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

While Ryoma did remember basic details about the Ultimate Hunt in Chapter 2, he ultimately has no complete recollection of the event, as he was murdered before he actually received a complete memory about The Gofer Project by the Flashback Lights in later chapters.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gymRyoma was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Ryoma was confused about their current predicament but was able to keep a level head. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived and revealed themselves from within their Exisals, they gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light. Ryoma and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. He also received the talent and title of Ultimate Tennis Pro. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Ryoma and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd Killing Game season known as the Killing School Semester. Students of Fabrication
Ryoma was first encountered in the game room in the basement of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles by Kaede, the Ultimate Pianist, and Shuichi, the Ultimate Detective. Because he was incarcerated before coming to Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, he says that the man known as the Ultimate Tennis Pro no longer exists and that he was nothing more than his empty shell.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester
Ryoma would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement, where them and Monokuma, the Monokuma Kubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game. Ryoma questioned just how it would go about and if they would be given weapons, much to Kaito Momota's, the Ultimate Astronaut's, anger. Monokuma replied by explaining just how the Killing Game would work and that it was quite the "sophisticated" experience. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.

Attempting the Death Road of 
After Monokuma commenced the Killing Game, Ryoma read the Killing Game rules on his MonoPad. The disturbing rules baffled all of the students, causing a discord among the group. Kaede saw this and immediately stopped them, saying that they should cooperate together instead of fighting if they wanted to escape. Ryoma listened to Kaede as she proposed a sound and straightforward argument. Everyone's heart was able to become one, all thanks to her speech. Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Ryoma along with everyone else immediately followed Gonta's lead, with hope of finding a way out.

The Students become exhausted after failing to escape the academy via Despair Death RoadDescending the manhole, Ryoma and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Ryoma and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi Oma, the Ultimate Supreme Leader, revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Ryoma included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Ryoma was disappointed that their unity was able to fall apart so easily before leaving with the others and heading to his dorm room.
On The 
As time passed within the walls of the academy, no one including Ryoma, intended to start the Killing Game. However, Monokuma's first and additional motive, the First Blood Perk and time limit, threatened the lives of the trapped students. As the days passed and they grew closer to the time limit, Ryoma decided that he would allow himself to be killed in order to let the others survive and escape from the academy. At the morning before the time limit hit, he was arguing with Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ???, in the dining hall on this matter, believing that they did not have any more room left for idealism. Rantaro, however, managed to persuade him to drop his proposal because he had his own way to stop the Killing Game. For the rest of the day, Ryoma remained in his room, simply waiting for the time limit to pass.

The rest of the students running into the library
After Rantaro was murdered, Ryoma would be among the last group of people who arrived in the library. Upon seeing Rantaro's body, he mentioned how ironic it was that he himself, who didn't have any will to survive lived, and Rantaro didn't. During Shuichi and Kaede's investigation, Ryoma warned the duo that testimonies without evidence are powerless as if telling them to be careful.

The First Class 
During the Class Trial, Ryoma suspected Tsumugi Shirogane disguising herself as someone else when she went to the toilet, but Kaede refuted him, saying that it would be impossible for Tsumugi to disguise herself since she has a terrible "cospox." He would later refute her yet again when arguing how on how the culprit could have gotten in and out of the library but was refuted yet again when Kaede showed him the front entrance photo's, saying that the one who still had ways to go was him. Later, when everyone was split down the middle on whether or not to vote for Shuichi, Ryoma was on the side that accused him, stating that if he had the receiver, he could have turned it off in order to fool Kaede.

When Shuichi accused Kaede of being the culprit, wanting to fulfill the wish she had entrusted to him, Ryoma remained skeptical. But after it was proven that she did what she did because she wanted to save everyone, Ryoma did not seem to put any of the blame on Kaede, saying that if that was a lie too, it'd be the last straw for him and that he would have nothing left to believe in. Ryoma would watch Kaede's execution with everyone else, afterward stating that he couldn't remember the last time he had felt so irritated.

Exploring the Rest of the 
The morning of the next day, everyone would gather in the dining hall once again and have a normal, but forced conversation to try and make themselves forget about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that would become unlocked would be the remaining second floor of the school, as well as the third floor, which contained Ryoma's Research Lab. Upon discovering it, he pretended not to care about it, saying that his days as a tennis player were over. Nevertheless, he couldn't help but stare at the tennis court that was set up for him with sad eyes.

After all the items had been used around the school, Ryoma gathered with everyone in the gymnasium once again in order to solve the mystery of the flashlight Shuichi and Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, had discovered. Monokuma appeared and told everyone that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Ryoma included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

Momota losing to Hoshi
In a bonus scene in Chapter 2, Ryoma, Shuichi, Kokichi, Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor, Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist, and gathered in the casino in hopes of playing a secret game with the medal that Shuichi had received from the Monomono Machine. However, Monokuma shows up and denies this, never stating such a thing in the first place and that the medal Shuichi had was just some knickknack he made for the Monokuma Kubs. Ryoma states that it's fine that the info was fake, saying that it wasn't even his reason for coming here. Thanks to Kaito's stubbornness, everyone got roped into a gambling competition, a competition that Kaito lost immensely to Ryoma each and every time. Despite his success, Ryoma claimed that it wasn't anything special and that some people have a "knack" for gambling while some don't.

Reason to 
After the Monokuma Kubs gave everyone the second motive, Ryoma's Kubs Pad was misplaced and was instead given to Maki Harukawa. At that time, he didn't know who held his motive video, and he suggested the group to exchange and return their motive videos to their respective owners, wanting to see who in the world could be important to him. However, the majority of the group rejected that idea, because they were afraid that it would cause another killing to happen. Ryoma was irritated by this and decided to stay away from the group. Kaito was incredibly annoyed with Ryoma's attitude, wondering how the Ultimate Tennis Pro could have fallen so far from glory.

Gonta Gokuhara discovers Shuichi Saihara and Ryoma Hoshi outside the dormitory
Before the day of the murder, Shuichi ran into Ryoma outside the dormitory while trying to escape from Gonta, who forcefully wanted them to join his Insect Meet and Great. He apologized to Shuichi for saying uncool things like giving up on his life. He only needed one last thing to motivate him to work alongside the group, and that was to see who was the most important people in his life by watching his motive video. He bid his farewell to Shuichi and escaped using his Shukuchi Method before Gonta knocked the Ultimate Detective unconscious.

Managing to escape Gonta's grasp, Ryoma paid Maki a visit while she was outside of her Research Lab and begged her to give him his Kubs Pad, knowing that she had his because Kokichi told him that she did when he gathered everyone's motive videos for Gonta's Insect Meet and Greet. Ryoma even went so far as to blackmail Maki because he knew her true talent thanks to having her Kubs Pad. This was the only way that he could find his will to live, as he wanted to know the people that love him and have a reason to survive with everyone else. Seeing this, Maki decided to give in and handed over his Kubs Pad, which would prove to be a fatal mistake.

Determined to find a reason for living, Ryoma watched his Kubs Pad without a second thought. When he did however, it was revealed to him that there was no one in the world that was important to him and that there was no one who considered him important to them, his motive was utterly void and empty. This revelation managed to break his spirit of living completely.

Ryoma's 
Kirumi Tojo about to knockout Ryoma Hoshi
That same night, Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, paid Ryoma a visit in his Ultimate Research Lab, having invited him earlier to target him for murder. She revealed to him that she had watched her own motive video and discovered that she was the de facto prime minister of all of Japan and that she was responsible for the entire nation and its people. Upon hearing this and sensing Kirumi's intent to kill, the soul-broken Ryoma congratulated Kirumi for having something so strong to live for, before telling her that he would pick up the tennis balls lying around his lab, turning his back to her. It was at this moment that Ryoma gave up his life to Kirumi, letting her bludgeon him in the back of the head with a wooden pole, knocking him unconscious. She then proceeded to handcuff him and drown him in the sink in his own lab's shower room, finally killing him, though not before scraping against the stone sink with his stainless steel handcuffs, unintentionally leaving behind some evidence of the struggle. His body would then be brought to the piranha tank in the gym by making use of a ropeway connecting the gym window and Ryoma's lab's window via the pool. This would ensure that when Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, and Angie's magic shown began the next morning, that he would be eaten by the piranha's, as Kirumi had ample time to set this up in the gym beforehand.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 2 Body Discovery
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 2 Body Discovery

The very next morning the magic show began as planned. Everyone who showed up to watch grew increasingly worried as the timer continued to count down, but Himiko had not come out of the tank yet. Gonta, in a panic, rushed up on stage to rescue her before the piranhas would fall in but did not see her in the tank. Once the timer hit zero, the piranhas were dumped into the tank, along with Ryoma's body, which Gonta thought he saw. Once the curtains were lifted, Ryoma's lifeless body was seen floating within the tank for only a couple seconds before the piranha's stripped all the flesh off of his bones, reducing him to nothing more than a skeleton. Everyone was completely shocked and bewildered as to how Ryoma died, let alone in Himiko's magic show, but had to investigate nonetheless.

The Second Class 
During the second Class Trial, Shuichi managed to pin Kirumi as the culprit of Ryoma's murder, fully deducing how he died thanks to the inner tube and the scrap of fabric left in the pool. After everyone found out Kirumi's motive for the killing, the Monokuma Kubs showed everyone Ryoma's video, showing that his motive was empty. This shocked everyone greatly, but disappointed Kaito, calling Ryoma an idiot for giving up so easily.

Creation and 
Ryoma's character background as a tennis player is heavily inspired by the fictional character Ryoma Echizen from the famous animanga series, The Prince of Tennis. Both characters share the first name and are famous and talented tennis players. Throughout the game, Ryoma has his own catchphrase "Mada mada dana" (まだまだだな lit. No, not yet) similar to Echizen's famous catchphrase "Mada mada dane" (まだまだだね lit No, not yet). In the English version, Ryoma's catchphrase is "you still got a ways to go" while Ryoma Echizen's is "you still have a ways to go" in the English version of The Prince of Tennis anime. His hard-boiled personality is based on Jingūji Saburō, or more well known in west as Jake Hunter from Jake Hunter: Detective Chronicles, where Kodaka handled wrote some cases in the mobile phone version of the game such as The Six Pieces of Crime (6枚の犯行).


His given name kanji 竜馬 Ryōma, is composed of the characters for "dragon" (竜) and "horse" (馬) while his last name kanji 星 Hoshi, means "star". His name was took after Ryoma Echizen and the main character from manga series Stars of the Giants, Hyuuma Hoshi.

Alternate 
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Ryoma was first seen in the lodging area along with Kirumi and Tsumugi Shirogane. After he introduced himself to Kaede, he warned her not to get close to a murderer like him.


Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Ryouma Hoshi
Ryoma is the shortest character in Danganronpa V3. Contrary to his soft appearance, he has a very deep voice. He has cropped brown hairs, black eyes with no visible pupils, and pale rosy cheeks.

He wears a black hat with two points that has a picture of two blue tennis rackets on it, a black leather jacket, and a black and dark blue striped jumpsuit underneath, similar to that of a prisoner. He wears brown shoes and has a metal cuff attached to his left leg with a bit of a chain attached to the cuff.

His legs are notably much more muscular than the rest of his body. He always has a candy in his mouth, which may give the impression of a cigarette.


Ryoma is a hard-boiled dandy character.Though he looks like a child, it's been said that his life experience would put an adult to shame. He has a coolness that common high school students don't have, heightened by his very deep, mature voice. He is the calmest, composed, and an unperturbed person in the Killing Game. He isn't shaken by murders nor even if he is personally harmed. He often mentions how he refuses to do something "uncool" and doesn't want to show his softer side.

Due to his grand past as an assassin, he considers himself a killer, the kind of person other people should not get close to. While generally not appearing very aggressive, he is apparently willing to harm and even kill people if he believes they deserve it, and he occasionally gives others a very piercing look as a warning.

Ryoma has a tendency to push other people away. He feels others shouldn't get close to him, because along with being a murderer he is on a death row and thus likely to die soon, which would cause his close ones emotional burden. However, his younger self was a big animal lover with a positive and proactive nature, but he states that he is now just a shadow of his former self and his old self no longer exists. Nevertheless, he still has certain kindness in him and retains his great love for animals. He will not stand seeing an animal in trouble, considering such situation an emergency. He also empathizes with Kaede Akamatsu's wish to escape and become friends with everyone, considering it "not bad" option. Despite being depressed himself and warning Kaede to not be so idealistic, his kindness often shines through and he occasionally gives other people good and positive advice, showing that he still has faith in life and positive thoughts deep. During Class Trials, he generally trusts others but doesn't hesitate to voice his doubts and use calm judgment. He is also willing to immediately apologize for incorrect doubts. Furthermore, Ryoma is still interested in tennis even though he strongly denies this at first.

Due to his past, Ryoma appears to be depressed and suicidal, assuming he has very little time left and is unable to have any close ones. He has little regard, if any at all, for his own life. He believes that being a death row inmate automatically makes his life worth less than anyone and he is very much willing to die for the sake of the other students. In Chapter 1, he offers to have one of the others kill him so that they may escape the school, allowing everyone to continue on with the Killing Game. Rantaro Amami manages to convince him otherwise, but he is still in a lot of doubt. He decided to look for a reason to live but became even more suicidal after his motive video revealed that he apparently has nobody to care about him in the outside world, causing him to find no reason to live. However, the situation is a bit unclear, as he showed a more positive change in attitude while talking with Shuichi. While Kirumi claimed that Ryoma had accepted his fate and wanted her to kill him, this is never confirmed and he had tried to fight back against Kirumi in order to live. During Ultimate Talent Development Plan, he also grows a bit more positive during the three years, as in the end he thinks that his future didn't completely disappear a long time ago after all.

Ryoma has mentioned that he doesn't feel anything anymore concerning sexual matters, supposedly due to his depression. Such situations also make him uncomfortable because he suffered from harassment while he was in prison.


Ultimate Tennis 
Ryoma was a tennis player with a promising future, world famous since his middle school days and winning many international matches. He is able to use the Shukuchi Method, a type of rapid movement that takes advantage of the opponent's blind spot. He would always enter the tennis court using his right foot, which he felt gave him good luck.

The Mastermind's claim that Ryoma's talent as the Ultimate Tennis Pro is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Ryoma is a tennis champion in the past.

In other 
Ryoma's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Tennis Pro
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「テニス選手」	Super High School Level Tennis Player
Français Tennisman Ultime 	Ultimate Tennis Player
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的網球選手	Super High School Level Tennis Player
中文 超高中级的网球选手	Super High School Level Tennis Player

Family:
Ryoma used to have a family he was very close with. However, they were murdered by the mafia. He avenged their murders by killing everyone in the mafia with a tennis racket and a steel ball, but in the end, he was left alone with no one who loved or cared about him, leaving him an empty shell of who he used to be.

Pet 
Ryoma used to own a pet cat he loved very much, supposedly a Russian Blue. However, after becoming a prisoner on death row, he had to give it away for an acquaintance. He misses the cat very much, though he gloomily assumes it must have long forgotten him. Since it does not appear on his motive video, it's possible that it either died or has forgotten Ryoma just like he feared.

Love Interests:

Ryoma used to have a girlfriend he loved deeply. However, she was murdered by the mafia along with Ryoma's family. He avenged their murders, but in the end, he was left alone and a shell of his former self. His Love Suite fantasy event reflects his fears of losing another loved one, either of them getting murdered due to being close to him or them mourning him after his execution. Since most of his history was faked by Team Danganronpa, she might not exist.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles
Kirumi 
Ryoma seems to hold a lot of respect for Kirumi, seeing that she works hard to please others while still holding respect for herself. Despite having zero will to live, Ryoma seems up to assisting Kirumi when she needs help with something, even if she says she can handle it.

Despite getting killed over it, Ryoma was willing to give up his life for Kirumi, understanding and respecting her intense will to live, wishing he had one. After seeing his Motive Video, given to him by Maki Harukawa, he gave up on living entirely when he'd looked for one to begin with. Being asked to meet up with Kirumi in his Ultimate Lab, he was already her target. Taking advantage of his weakness, she told Ryoma about her motive video, being the Prime Minister of Japan and expresses passionately how she needs to save them all.

Recognizing the killing intent in her eyes and demeanor, Ryoma goes to say he respects Kirumi for having such a big reason to live, chiding that he himself has none. Proceeding to turn his back on her, telling her he was going to pick up the tennis balls, she exploited this opportunity by hitting him over the head while his back was turned.

Although Kirumi killed Ryoma for her own gain, she doesn't seem to hold any particular malice or hatred for him. She wanted to fulfill the request of her people, and used him to do so.

Kaito 
Ryoma is often badgered by Kaito as to why he never tries to help the others with escaping. Ryoma only answers that he has no will to live, so he isn't interested in taking part of that. Kaito is upset by this, wondering why Ryoma is like this, remarking he was such an incredible tennis player and inspiring person back in the day. The two of them have very strong beliefs, Kaito being disappointed in the suicidal and depressive thoughts that Ryoma always has.

Being told to not get in the way of others surviving the Killing Game, Ryoma only scoffs, saying he'd never do anything uncool like that. When his corpse was found, Kaito seemed to express some regret towards being so cold like that to Ryoma, wishing he could've gotten through to him and give him a will to live. But he acknowledges it's too late to think about that now, and is determined to find his killer. He helps with the investigation by using his knowledge of tennis to estimate the net cord's length.

Ryoma thinks that Kaito is an easily manipulated person, as it was shown in a bonus scene where he was persuaded to fight him in a gambling match, in which he won in a landslide victory over Kaito. Despite the misgivings, Ryoma doesn't blame Kaito for being disappointed in him. Kaito used to be in a tennis club when he was younger, having looked up to Ryoma as an amazing tennis player himself.

Kokichi 
Ryoma dislikes the way Kokichi acts so childishly during their trying situation in the Killing School Semester. He is irritated by Kokichi's childish behavior, saying that he only wanted to make fun and messing those around him. He also thought that Kokichi likes to provoke people and never says anything from the heart. However, Ryoma felt that Kokichi doesn't intend to survive the Killing Game, a feeling that he could easily relate to.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Ryoma Hoshi, Hotel Kumasutra#Ryoma Hoshi

Ryoma Pixel Head Icon
Ryoma Hoshi
Loves:	016. Candy Cigarette, 033. Dog Tag, 098. Hammock, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	003. Ginger Tea, 005. Non-Alcoholic Drink of Immortality, 009. Astro Cake, 018. Silver Earring, 023. Workout Clothes, 025. Autumn-Colored Scarf, 030. Beret, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 032. Cufflinks, 037. Travel Journal, 045. High-End Headphones, 046. Teddy Bear, 061. Hand Grips, 062. Commemorative Medal Set, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 074. Sports Towel, 077. Clock-Shaped Gaming Console, 095. Home Planet, 105. Bear Ears, 106. Dangan Werewolf

DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"Ryoma Hoshi, the man called the Ultimate Tennis Pro... no longer exists. I'm nothing more than his empty shell."
"I didn't need a future anymore... No... it's nothing. It's not like me to talk so much. Anyway... I'm warning you. It's dangerous to just walk up to a killer like me."
"Instead of saying a bunch of vulgar things, why not use your brain a little?"
"Hmph... You're rather motivated to stay alive. I wish I had... No, never mind."
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"We may be trapped, but it's pretty cool here. Compared to prison anyway..."
Chapter 1:

"We fell apart pretty quick for a group that decided to be friends and work together."
"He's not wrong, though. If we want to stay alive, standing around grumbling's not gonna change anything. As things are, we're not going to escape together...we're going to die together. Are you guys okay with that?"
"You can't protect yourself when you're alone."
"If you really want to live through a situation like this, grumbling won't help."
"I understand that you want to believe in everyone, but... Idealistic thoughts like that won't save anyone. You might end up losing what you tried to save."
"The best thing to do is live life with confidence."
"Do what you want. Whether you guys live or die is up to you."
"The way the world works is that those who speak, win. The truth can easily be twisted. In order to fix a twisted truth, you need something even more powerful."
"I guess the one who still has a ways to go...is me."
Chapter 2:

"This world can be too big and bright for eyes that have spent too long staring down. So be careful. Don't let your eyes deceive you..."
"I've got no intention of getting in your way. I'd never do something so uncool."
"Good things...are when your wishes, hopes, or dreams are fulfilled, right? What does that have to do with someone like me with no wishes, hopes, or dreams?"
"It's like your eyes have stopped focusing on the past... Hmph, your face looks more dependable."
"I win simply because I'm confident in my skills. That's all it takes."
"Well, of course. If I was just lucky, I wouldn't be undefeated on the court."
"By the way...I'm sorry. For saying something so uncool like "I've got no reason to live.""
"I'm going to say this so we're clear. I'm not so stupid that I'd waste my life. I...only said something like that because I was jealous of you. If I had a stronger attachment to life, I could try my best alongside you all—"
"If you've got something to live for, it means your life has value."
"Once I know I've got something important to me, I'll have a reason to live..."
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Ryoma has a very deep voice despite his small appearance. This contrasts Daisaku Bandai from Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School, who has a high-pitched, feminine voice with a very bulky appearance.
Ryoma is the shortest character in Danganronpa V3, and the shortest human character in the entire Danganronpa series.
When investigating Ryoma's Research Lab in Chapter 2, Shuichi Saihara comments that it looks like it belongs to the Ultimate Prisoner (超高校級の囚人) instead of the Ultimate Tennis Pro.
Ryoma and Miu are the only Class Trial participants that never join Kaede or Shuichi's side in Debate Scrums.
Ryoma's English voice actor, Chris Tergliafera, also voices Gundham Tanaka in Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Ryoma the 15th most popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Ryoma was voted the 14th most popular student in the electronic poll, and 9th through post cards.

Shuichi Saihara is a fan of a reality show featuring killing games known as Danganronpa, created by Team Danganronpa. In his audience tape, it was revealed that he was eager to participate in the show as the Ultimate Detective because he adores a lot of characters with the titles in the past seasons. He is willing to do his best to use the talent to commit an unsolvable murder that will amaze the series' viewers, to the point where he can think of his own execution as the Ultimate Detective.

During his high school days, Shuichi attended Spring Field Academy (春原学院). However, it is unknown if this was part of his memory's fabrication or not.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Pre-Game Students in their talent outfits (Vita) (1)
Shuichi, along with the other talentless 53rd Killing Game participants, underwent the fabrication process, where all of his past memories and personality were permanently fabricated. He also received the talent and title that he so desired, the Ultimate Detective. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all around the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Shuichi entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as a completely different person with the other participants, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester.

Fabricated Past
After he was accepted to participate in the 53rd Killing Game, Shuichi's memories were fabricated by Team Danganronpa.

Shuichi's parents are a famous actor and a screenwriter, who went overseas for business, which is why Shuichi began to live with his uncle and his wife. While Shuichi claims there isn't any sad story behind it all, his parents are neglectful towards him, and he smiles bitterly whenever he talks about them. To show his gratitude to his uncle, Shuichi helped him by working as his assistant in his detective agency. While he was only helping out and had no desire to be a detective himself, he learned to be a detective this way. Shuichi's first detective case was unofficial but a tough one, as his classmate asked him to find her miniature pet alligator, and he had to do a lot of research, prepare tools and eventually climb around mountains and swim up rivers. As thanks for finding her pet, Shuichi's classmate later gave him chocolate for Valentine's Day, though he assumed it was done just as friends. Shuichi was mostly happy to be useful and memorized her words "thank you". His first official case was an infidelity case, which was nothing compared to the alligator one.

Most of the cases that happened to come to his uncle were small things like investigating infidelity, but on the one rare occasion Shuichi managed to solve a murder case faster than the police and became publicly known as the junior detective, gaining him his Ultimate title. However, Shuichi does not believe he deserves the title, claiming that he only happened to solve this one case by chance.

In reality, the situation was more complicated. When the culprit was captured thanks to Shuichi, his eyes were full of hatred and malice as he looked at Shuichi, and the boy never forgot that gaze. Shuichi heard later that the culprit had killed the victim to avenge his family and the victim was a horrible person who had tricked the culprit's family and driven them to suicide. Shuichi felt guilty for "siding with" the victim and felt everything was his fault because he exposed the truth. He gained a fear of exposing the truth, considering himself a pathetic detective, and he began to wear a hat because he couldn't look at other people's eyes anymore.

Prior to the Killing School Semester
The Gofer Project
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstory created for Shuichi and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the killing game started. It was initiated by the government after countless meteorites crashed into Earth. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select a number of excellent human beings, put them in a spaceship, and have them escape.
Shuichi and fifteen other high school students were chosen to participate. However, not wanting to abandon their loved ones, they attempted to escape from the plan.

Around that time, an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteor crashes were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, they tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students’ deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed. Shuichi and the others went to space in a massive spaceship colony, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles.

Kokichi Oma who declared himself as a member of Junko Enoshima's Remnants of Despair said that he is the mastermind behind the Killing School Semester who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, effectively forcing Shuichi and the others to participate in the Killing Game.

Shuichi was able to receive the complete memory about The Gofer Project in Chapter 5 via the Flashback Light.

Killing School Semester
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Shuichi's Plan
Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara begging Miu Iruma to build cameras (3)
During Shuichi's and Kaede's investigation of the library, they discovered a hidden door behind one of the bookshelves. Shuichi speculated that The Mastermind might come to open the door at anytime. Hoping to catch the mastermind, they asked Miu Iruma to make them cameras that they would later set up in the library. They retrieved parts for Miu to make the cameras with from the warehouse. While there Kaede, unbeknownst to Shuichi, obtained a shot put that she secretly put in her backpack. Pushed by the first motive presented by Monokuma, Kaede planned to murder the mastermind and save everyone from the killing game without telling Shuichi.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara setting the trap (5)
While Kaede was setting up and preparing her trap in the library, Shuichi continued to be oblivious to her plan as he set up the cameras. Later on, while they were staking out the classroom on the first floor, Rantaro entered the library and discovers the hidden door thanks to his Survivor Perk Monopad. As soon as he moves the shelf, he triggers the sensor on top of it as well as the hidden camera that Kaede set up, alerting both her and Shuichi. Shuichi rushed out of the classroom, but Kaede threw her shot put into the air duct that led into the library before quickly following him.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Hidden Camera Photo (1)
Once the duo reaches the basement, they are joined by Kaito Momota and Tenko Chabashira. They notice the bookshelf closing again as they enter the library and come upon Rantaro's corpse, who seemed to have been bludgeoned in the back of the head with a shot put. Shuichi, along with everyone else, is mystified as to why Rantaro was killed while Kaede is shocked and horrified, thinking that she accidentally killed a dear friend but kept the secret to herself for the time being.

Shuichi's Deduction
Saihara revealed Akamatsu as the culprit
During the Class Trial, Kaede hopes to reveal the mastermind and bring everyone together. Shuichi however, quickly discovers the supposed "truth" that Kaede murdered Rantaro, but refuses to speak about that fact as to not condemn his friend. Unfortunately for him, this act of silence, as well as forgetting to mention the camera intervals to Kaede before-hand, catches the suspicion of nearly everyone else in the trial and he is quickly denounced as the culprit. As a result, Kaede is left with no other choice but to protect him, mentally apologizing to everyone for being unable to reveal the mastermind and save them. Shuichi realizes this, and vows to no longer be afraid of the truth and reveals her as the "culprit" to everyone else in the trial.

Everyone is shocked and in utter disbelief that Kaede, who wanted to end the killing game and save everyone, could be the culprit. Despite this, Shuichi is goaded along by her as to make him reveal the whole truth about her plan, much to everyone's dismay.

After everyone cast their vote, Kaede comes clean fully and admitted that she planned to kill the mastermind in order to save everyone and end the killing game. Shuichi was quick to blame himself for coming to the deduction that the mastermind would be in the library and giving Kaede that idea, but she corrects him and says that she brought this upon herself. Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs are quick to execute her, but Kaito, Tenko, and Gonta Gokuhara immediately jump to her defense despite facing an Exisal. Kaede urges them to stop, saying that she's ready to die. Shuichi criticized her for giving up, but she reassured him that she isn't. She told him that she believed in him and as such, should believe in himself before being dragged to her execution, to which everyone watched in horror.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Kaito Momota hitting Shuichi Saihara
Shuichi is rendered stunned and silenced, but is quickly brought to his senses by Kaito, who slugged him and angrily criticized him for not doing anything after Kaede put all her thoughts on him and believed in him. After the trial, Shuichi with Kaito's recommendation visited the Ultimate Pianist Research Lab. He looked around and plays Debussy's Clair de Lune via the audio player and began to reminisce about Kaede. He made a vow to not look away from the truth anymore and believe in himself, essentially saying goodbye to her.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Shuichi Saihara imagining Kaede Akamatu's spirit playing the piano
Shattered Relationships
During the fourth class trial, Shuichi ends up taking Kokichi's side and denounces Gonta as Miu's murderer. However, nearly everyone else refuses to believe this truth, even Kaito, who despite constantly praising and encouraging Shuichi after Kaede's death, accuses him of betraying his trust and stubbornly states that Kokichi is trying to ruin their friendship. Gonta meanwhile tearfully begs Shuichi to reconsider and continues to state that he could not be the culprit, but this is simply due to him having no recollection of killing Miu. Despite all the pleas and protests however, Shuichi's allegation does not change, and with the help of Kokichi and K1-B0, he is able to pin all the evidence on Gonta. Eventually Gonta and Kaito back down, and the former willingly accepts whatever truth they arrive at, claiming that he himself is too stupid to understand. Despite being completely for the truth, Shuichi is still very saddened to have to condemn someone as kindhearted as Gonta, as well as his and Kaito's friendship seemingly taking a heavy blow.

Following the trial and Gonta's execution, Shuichi becomes agitated with Kokichi, but grows concerned when Kaito coughs up blood, hinting at his illness.

Clearing the Death Road of Despair
Shuichi, along with the other survivors, used Miu's inventions to cross the Death Road of Despair. They came across a large metal hatch at the end which they open up and discover the apparent state of the outside world. Shortly after, Kokichi Oma appears and proclaims himself as the ringleader behind the killing game and controls the Exisals to take Kaito Momota hostage in the Exisal Hangar.

Confusion and Conclusion
Shuichi would later join his fellow classmates in storming the Exisal Hangar, only to find a body crushed beyond recognition underneath the press machine, the only clue as to who the victim could be being Kaito's sleeve hanging out from the press machine, whereas Kokichi is still missing. Shuichi is horrified at the thought of having lost another one of his dear friends as the investigation begins.

During the Class Trial, Shuichi is quick to question whether or not the victim is actually Kaito, much to Maki Harukawa's annoyance. When the missing person arrives riding inside of an Exisal, he pretends to be Kaito before supposedly revealing himself to be Kokichi and showing everyone else a recording of what appears to be Kaito being crushed by the press machine, much to Shuichi's shock.

Later on in the trial, when the person inside of the Exisal pretends to be Kaito again, Shuichi refuses to believe it and confidently declares that there's no way Kaito could be alive, a deduction that Maki agrees with. Upon hearing this, the person inside of the Exisal begins acting like Kokichi once more. However, this deduction is eventually revealed to be incorrect. With thanks to Maki's additional testimony about what happened inside of the hangar, as well as the security system not working when she attempted to break the control panel, Shuichi realizes that no one other than Kaito and Kokichi could have been inside the hangar to pull off the victim identity trick. Upon realizing this however, Shuichi notices that he overlooked a critical piece of information and that the one inside of the Exisal had to be Kaito pretending to be Kokichi.

Eventually, thanks to Shuichi's deduction and lie, Kaito is forced to reveal himself from the Exisal and tells Shuichi that he really is amazing for having worked out Kokichi's whole plan. Shuichi could do nothing but be sad at the idea that he was going to lose not just any other friend, but the person who helped him to stand up and encouraged him after Kaede died. Kaito apologizes to Shuichi, claiming that he was jealous of his talent as a detective and that it was his skills that helped them survive this long. Shuichi responds by saying that it was only with his help that he was able to do that, but Kaito could do nothing but cough up blood in response due to his illness, much to Shuichi's horror.

As Kaito was about to be executed, he told Shuichi and everyone else that he wouldn't accept their tears and that they should send him off in style. Shuichi tells him that he won't cry anymore and that he will make the impossible possible. Shuichi and the other students watch as Kaito's execution fails and he dies in the middle of it due to his illness, much to Monokuma's annoyance.

Later, after the trial concluded, Shuichi would go to the courtyard where he and Kaito would train. He was joined by Maki, and the two shared a short, but emotional conversation. They both agreed that the best thing that you could give to someone who had died is not sadness, but gratitude and that they are both thankful to Kaito for everything he had done for them and vowed to carry on his will and end the killing game. They were eventually joined by Himiko Yumeno and Tsumugi Shirogane, who also wanted to keep their promise to Kaito and began training with them, but their moment is cut short by K1-B0, who had lost his "connector" to the outside world and thus; was determined to destroy Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles and end the killing game himself.

Pursuit of Truth
During the final investigation, Shuichi along with Himiko went inside Rantaro's Research Lab. At first, the room was ambiguous and was hard to judge what his talent is based on the room's appearance. Later, Shuichi and Himiko managed to find a disc and discovered Rantaro's talent as the Ultimate Survivor via a recording made by Rantaro himself.

Shuichi, along with fellow survivors Himiko, Maki, Tsumugi , and K1-B0 decided to re-open Rantaro's case after discovering new truths related to his murder. Upon revealing Rantaro's talent as the Ultimate Survivor to everyone, and proving that Kaede did in fact not murder him and was executed unjustly much to his anger, Shuichi realized that the mastermind has to be one of them and, by double-checking everyone's alibis during Rantaro's murder, honed in on Tsumugi as the true culprit and mastermind of the Killing School Semester.

Tsumugi denied the claim vehemently whereas the other survivors are confused and shocked that the Ultimate Cosplayer could have gone through with such a plan. Shuichi however, made it very clear that Tsumugi was the only person who could have murdered Rantaro by using the hidden passageway in the girls bathroom, which also led into the hidden room that connected to the library.

Shuichi Saihara voting the Mastermind Chapter 6
Tsumugi also did not give the same order to Motherkuma as the other survivors did (Aside from K1-B0 who was rampaging at the time and thus not present), saying "make" instead of "birth", which would have triggered its voice recognition software and created another Monokuma, proving that she would be the mastermind. Tsumugi continued to deny it, to which Shuichi said that she should refute. He deeply wanted to be wrong and not have to condemn another fellow friend or believe that any one of them could be the mastermind. Unfortunately, Shuichi's words are for nothing as he and the other survivors watch Tsumugi break and reveal herself as "Junko Enoshima the 53rd".

Tsumugi, now cosplaying as Junko, went on to reveal that everyone's memories of being students at Hope's Peak Academy, the The Gofer Project, and shouldering their friends and families burdens as mankind's last hope, was all a false memory planted into their brains by the Flashback Light. In reality, everything they remember about attending Hope's Peak Academy and the outside world being destroyed was a lie. What they remember about Kokichi Oma being part of the Remnants of Despair was a lie as well, much to everyone's shock.

In reality, the circumstances behind their killing game are far more cruel. After proving her talent fully as the Ultimate Cosplayer by cosplaying as some characters from Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc and Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair, Tsumugi revealed that everything has been broadcasted to a very peaceful world that have been enjoying watching the students of Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles kill each other, essentially revealing everything that they've been through as a reality-TV show and "Extreme Real Fiction". She also revealed that everything that took place in the Hope's Peak Academy Saga were nothing more than fictional events from a very popular anime and game franchise known as Danganronpa.

While the other survivors were quick to oppose Tsumugi and Monokuma, they both reveal that the participants of the Killing School Semester are also "fictional characters", whose memory, personality, feelings, and talent were all fabricated in order to provide an exciting setting for the killing game. Shuichi denies this immediately, but Tsumugi reveals herself as working for Team Danganronpa and went a step further and shows Shuichi's, Kaede's, and Kaito's, audition videos for the killing game, showing what sort of people they were prior to participating. Shuichi is considerably shocked upon realizing that his former self willingly participated in a killing game, and that everything he had fought for up until now, all the relationships he had made, were all fabricated. Tsumugi chastises him for still being the same, weak detective he was at the beginning of the story as he falls into despair.

K1-B0 however, after hearing what "his inner voice" has to say, reassured everyone to not lose hope. Tsumugi corrected him and says that the voice K1-B0 hears is the voice of the people watching this killing game and that he is nothing more than an interactive communication device and camera for the viewers to interact and participate in the game themselves. Despite this however, K1-B0 refused to give up on hope and that the people in the outside world don't want despair. Tsumugi meanwhile refused to give up on despair and stated that a world that enjoys killings could not possibly desire hope. In true Danganronpa fashion, they decide to settle this with one final, special vote where K1-B0 represents hope and Tsumugi represents despair.

Shuichi however, saw through the charade and cuts in, saying that neither choice is correct and that choosing hope would do nothing but cause the killing game to continue. Because of this, he decided to stop playing along and abandons his vote, hoping to end Danganronpa once and for all, much to Tsumugi's and Monokuma's chagrin. Eventually, Shuichi convinces everyone else to abandon their vote as well but K1-B0, in a last ditch effort to keep Danganronpa going, is hacked by the audience. Tsumugi is proud to show that the audience does not wish for Danganronpa to end and explained that they supposedly deleted K1-B0's personality that kept getting in the way. Despite Tsumugi telling them that what they're doing is pointless, Shuichi refused to give up, still exclaiming that he will end Danganronpa and that their lives are not just show-things for their amusement.

Confident that his voice reached the outside world through K1-B0, Shuichi and everyone else abandoned their vote. Tsumugi however, bends the rules one last time and abandons her vote as well, which she revealed after everyone else did. Everyone is immediately confused and worried as to why she abandoned her vote as well. Tsumugi stated that if they're going to risk their lives to end Danganronpa, then she will risk her life to make it continue. Tsumugi is confident that Danganronpa will continue after abandoning her vote, meaning only K1-B0's vote will have any power as he is still being hacked.

When Monokuma displayed the results of the final voting, Shuichi smiles at seeing that no one had voted, proving that the audience does not want Danganronpa to continue. Tsumugi panicked and tried to make everyone reconsider, but it is no use as the monitors all turn off, the audience no longer showing any interest. Shuichi tells her that her words are not being heard and that nobody wants a fiction that she created anymore. Tsumugi, upon realizing that Danganronpa was indeed over and done with, promptly loses all of her hope in living as she denied a world without Danganronpa, but had not prepared a proper execution before hand and as such, leaves it to K1-B0.

K1-B0 does not hesitate and proceeds to execute everything, killing Tsumugi and destroying Monokuma in the process. Shuichi along with his fellow survivors take cover under some rubble during the chaos. K1-B0 eventually self-destructs, creating an opening in the glass dome for his fellow survivors to escape.

Shuichi's Fate
NDRV3 Survivors 2
Shuichi survived the final execution along with fellow survivors Himiko and Maki by hiding under some rubble. Himiko was in a bit of a bind, but Shuichi helped her up before taking in their surroundings. Gifted Inmates Academy had been completely obliterated by K1-B0. The remaining survivors wondered what would become of the fictional world now, but none of them had an idea of what to do now that everything was over. Maki questioned at first why they were still alive, but Himiko and Shuichi both stated that it must have been the outside world's will that let them survive.

NDRV3 Survivors
To Maki and Himiko's surprise however, Shuichi states that what Tsumugi said to them about the outside world may have been a lie, and that Hope's Peak Academy and the Remnants of Despair might actually exist, though he has no proof to back up this claim. He also does not think that he would willingly participate in a killing game no matter how mad of a world he was living in, but once again it is mere speculation, though Himiko states that Kaito's insight might be rubbing off on him.

Despite not really knowing what is truth and what is lie however, Shuichi along with the two remaining survivors resolve themselves to go out into the outside world and see the truth for themselves, and that if a lie had changed the world, then the story would not end.

Creation and Development
Name
His first name kanji, (終一) shūichi, means "last one" while his last name kanji, 最原 Saihara, could mean "prime field" or "conspicuous wilderness".

Shuichi's first name foreshadows his role in the story, as it means "end one" and he was the one who ended the Danganronpa series. His full name, Saihara Shūichi, can also be shortened to Saishū, the Japanese name of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles.


Alternate Fates
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Shuichi was first seen at the end of the hallway and shyly introduced himself as the Ultimate Detective to Kaede Akamatsu. He admitted that he doesn't deserve that title. After the murder of Yasuhiro Hagakure occurred, he was seen inside the cafeteria, investigating where the murder weapon originated.

Appearance
Most of the time, Shuichi wears a black cap with three white stripes lining the back of it, and a silver star pinned near the front. Underneath the cap, he has short black hair with a small ahoge. He has very pale skin and a slim figure. His eyes are gambogeish grey, with thick, feminine eyelashes that are completely natural.

Shuichi's high school uniform is double-breasted and pinstripe, thin, grey stripes over a black uniform. His pants match his uniforms design, black with a pinstripe design to accentuate his long legs. His former schools emblem is on the breast pocket of his uniform, the pocket accentuated with a dull golden color to stand out from his generally dark, monotone uniform. His shoes are dark blue loafers that are both fashionable and easy to walk in, making it easy for him to investigate comfortably.

In the prologue, he wears the uniform of his original high school. He wears a blazer-style casual uniform with jacket, pants and a striped blue necktie. The collar on the shirt is large, making him look more gorgeous. He never lets go of the cap that blocks his sight, regardless of whether or not it goes well with his uniform.

Personality
Shuichi appears to have quite a serious and polite personality. However, he is also stated to have a weak personality, and he is abnormally timid when it comes to speaking. He often has negative remarks, frequently blushes and suffers from a cold sweat. With his unsure demeanor, he has a tendency to assume that other people can do things better than him, and he comes across as quite unreliable at first glance. Among the sixteen students, he is a boy who stands out for his submissiveness but also for his level-headedness.

However, Shuichi can also have a stronger attitude at times when the situation calls for it. He is the first to immediately suggest going after the mastermind during chapter 1, and goes to great lengths to trap them, showing an affinity towards proactivity. His hat is an especially sore subject for him and he dislikes to look at other people's eyes, which is why he wears the hat. When meeting Miu Iruma, she accused him of being a pervert with no reason, causing him to angrily yell at her to leave him alone. She had said that boys wear hats to hide their staring, which is obviously very poor reasoning, and Shuichi angrily told her he doesn't need an excuse to wear a hat.

Even though he is a very skilled detective with superior ability and insight, Shuichi lacks self-confidence, as he claims he hasn't accomplished enough to be called a famous detective. He also feels he doesn't deserve his Ultimate title because he only happened to solve a murder case by chance, frequently referring to himself as "kind of a detective", although Kaede Akamatsu says she doesn't believe something like this is possible.In the bonus mode, he also feels inferior to fellow Ultimate Detective, Kyoko Kirigiri, who possesses far more experience as a detective than him. However, he later reveals to Kaede that his biggest issue with detective work comes from the first murder case he solved, which gave him a fear of uncovering the truth, which is something a real detective would never have in his opinion. He fears the guilt, consequences and the hatred he might receive and the pain he might cause if he reveals the truth.

Whenever Shuichi feels depressed, he tends to stay in his room and doesn't eat nor shower and at times he can even feel suicidal, but he can get moving with his friends' support. With Kaede assuring him that she believes in him and he should be more confident in himself, Shuichi promises he will try although he's not sure if he can. After Kaede decides to put all her thoughts on him and believe in him prior to her execution, and with Kaito's assistance, Shuichi's timid veil breaks considerably and he even stops wearing his hat, feeling that it was "getting in the way". He begins to show a more profound confidence in his abilities as a detective and when interacting with other people. He always takes a very large role in every single Class Trial after the first one, choosing not to look away from the truth anymore and keep his promise to Kaede. He also becomes noticeably more vocal than before, displaying immense outrage during the final Class Trial after revealing to his fellow survivors that Kaede was executed unjustly.

Shuichi is also shown to take romantic relationships very seriously. During his Free Time Events, when Kaede asks him if he feels uncomfortable about women and romance due to seeing so many tough adultery cases in his detective work, he fiercely denies this and says he would never be unfaithful. During his Love Suite Event with K1-B0, it's shown that he only feels a bit uncomfortable about the idea of dating the robot because of the fact that he assumes he is asking for a pretense relationship. He tells K1-B0 he doesn't want a relationship based on lies, but gladly agrees to have a romantic relationship with him after he confesses that he truly is in love with Shuichi. In general, Shuichi is shown to be a bit shy about romance, but also very supportive and willing to make the other happy even if it's just dream-like situations like the Love Suite Events. Since he is a bit submissive, some other characters tease him by calling him a masochist in Chapter 4, as he often looks so pleased to obey orders (mostly from Kaito). Miu uses this as an excuse to boss him around and Shuichi looks a bit saddened that everyone thinks of him like that. During one of the conversations beginning Miu's Free Time Events, he even obeys Miu's non-serious suggestion and plays tricks for her like a dog. Miu even calls him Kaede's "beta little boy toy" during the first trial.

It's later revealed that Team Danganronpa created Shuichi's character of the "weakest Ultimate Detective ever", with lots of room for character development. His original personality was shown to be a somewhat nervous and disturbed person, who was a big fan of Danganronpa and its detective characters. He stated that he was willing to do anything to be a part of the show and was shown to excitedly plan ideas for gruesome murders and his own detective-themed execution. Though, it should be noted that it is left unclear whether or not this is true and it could have been a lie made by the mastermind, as pointed out by Shuichi.

However, against Team Danganronpa's expectations, it turns out that while Kaede was the perfect protagonist for Team Danganronpa's plans, Shuichi is actually the type of protagonist needed in order to truly end the Killing Game and the series for good. In the end, he decided to give up both hope and despair, abandoning the game by refusing to vote, and ultimately ending it. While he lacks Kaede's optimism, strength and charisma, he is also notably smarter than her.

Talent
Ultimate Detective
Shuichi's talent as the Ultimate Detective is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. As shown in the final trial, Shuichi was a normal high school student who has no amazing talent such as Ultimate Detective whatsoever.

Danganronpa V3 Shuuichi Shuichi Saihara Introduction (Demo Version)
Shuichi is a very skilled detective, capable of solving a murder case faster than the police, although he claims he only managed to solve the case by chance. However, Kokichi Oma's secret society is so mysterious that even Shuichi does not seem to know any organization matching up with it.

As a detective, Shuichi has a keen intellect and is a sharp thinker. While he is timid when talking to others, he is seen to be calmer and firmer when analyzing and doing reasoning. He suggests that there might be a "mastermind" among the students simply by Monokuma's claims. By the first trial, he is able to reach the truth faster than anyone else, but is hesitant to say it because of his "fear of revealing the truth".

In other languages
Shuichi's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Detective
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「探偵」	Super High School Level Detective
Français Détective Ultime	Ultimate Detective
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的偵探	Super High School Level Detective
中文 超高中级的侦探	Super High School Level Detective
Relationships
Family:
Uncle
Shuichi is very grateful for his uncle for taking him in and taking care of him after his parents moved overseas. To show his gratitude, he worked as his uncle's assistant and learned to be a detective by watching his uncle's example. However, he had no interest in being a detective himself and was simply helping out. While Shuichi feels anxious over being a detective, he does not seem to hold it against his uncle, and they appear quite close.

Parents
Shuichi has a negative relationship with his parents, though he tries to hide it by claiming that he doesn't have any sad story concerning them. His parents are a famous actor and a screenwriter, and considered celebrities by most people, though Shuichi does not view them like that. After they went to live overseas for business, they left Shuichi to live with his uncle, and he appears bitter whenever talking about them though he forces a smile. Shuichi's parents are neglectful and prefer to not be involved with him, and Shuichi has stated that their way of being parents is "hands-off parenting".

Love Interest:
Kaede Akamatsu
Shuichi seems to strongly believe in Kaede, reassuring her and telling her that "if it's her, she can do it".His presence appears to put Kaede at ease, due to his status as a detective, although she admits that he seems unreliable. She even attempts to help raise Shuichi's confidence by giving him pep talks.

Shuichi admitted to not having a reason to trust Kaede when murders occur, which disappoints her, although she does learn to accept this since she believes he can solve cases easily if he puts his mind to it.However, this changed when the two began to investigate the school together, as Shuichi came to admire her for her tenacity and determination, putting complete faith in her. He even bowed down to Miu when the two requested her service as an inventor, following suit after Kaede bowed first, which surprises and impresses the pianist.

Because the two spent so much time together, many other students pointed this out, and some more or less jokingly assumed they were dating, with Miu even crudely assuming that they're having a sexual relationship. Kokichi also cheekily asked Kaede about how far she's gone with Shuichi, but then claims that he simply meant how far they've gone investigating the building when she demands what he meant by that.

Relying on each other when the time limit was announced, the two worked together to set up cameras in the library to catch the mastermind by taking photos of whoever shows up. Cooperating together like this strengthens the bond between Shuichi and Kaede, especially after they finish setting them up and keep watch in the classroom. There, Shuichi confesses to Kaede why he's so insecure about his talent and rank as a detective, explaining the murder case he happened to solve, and why the culprit killed the victim. She encourages him, telling him that even if he feels bad, he still brought light to a terrible crime, and he should be more proud of that. Placing her hand on his, she tells him to be more confident and keep his chin up, to which he responds that he'll try his best.

Shuichi was devastated to find out that Kaede had murdered Rantaro, and desperately demanded to know why Kaede cared for others too much, to the point she committed a murder to save everyone. But his anger faded quickly as he was reminded that Kaede would be executed. He was shown to have attempted to save her, however, this failed as she was already out of his reach, and Shuichi was forced to watch helplessly as Kaede was executed.

Although hurt by Kaede's supposed betrayal, Shuichi still cried over her demise. He imagined her playing the piano after the trial, and was suddenly motivated to keep moving and break out of the school for her. He still thinks of her from time to time, such as in Chapter 3, when Korekiyo asks Shuichi if he wants to try speaking to the dead. Shuichi is interested in the idea for a second, thinking that there is only "one girl" that he wants to talk to once again. It's very likely that he was referring to Kaede; however, he quickly disregards the idea because he thinks speaking to the dead is impossible, and he only would've wanted to talk to Kaede after escaping the school anyway, to tell her that they finally did it.

When Maki started to realize her feelings for Kaito and struggled to ask advice from Shuichi, she asked him if he had liked Kaede. Shuichi then thought about Kaede reassuring him and holding his hand, indicating that he believes he did like her. However, Maki then pointed out that it would be weird to develop feelings for someone after you met them just a while ago, which offended Shuichi a bit, especially since Maki then refused to reveal her personal things and what she wanted to talk about.

In chapter 6, when the real case of Rantaro's murder is brought to light, Shuichi is enraged at the injustice Kaede faced, being falsely accused for a crime she didn't commit, and therefore was falsely executed. He was later shocked when Tsumugi claimed that Kaede only encouraged him because the mastermind made her like that and that real Kaede would have never said that.

During the Love Suite fantasy event, Shuichi had the role of Kaede's boyfriend and they celebrated their first anniversary. Kaede seemed upset because he didn't call her "sweetheart", but by her name, instead. In the original Japanese, Shuichi was asked to call her with her first name instead of the way he usually refers her as "Akamatsu-san." However, after Shuichi tried to call her 'sweetheart' for the first time, they both find it hard to regain their composure and especially Kaede is shocked. Slightly worried, Shuichi asked her if she is okay and called her Kaede again by habit, causing her to point out in slight annoyance that he went back to calling her that. Shuichi apologized shyly, but Kaede answers it's fine and a bit shyly admitted that she really likes his passive side. Shuichi blushed at this and became quiet, causing Kaede to tell him not do that and point out that she got very embarrassed too. Out of blue, Kaede hugged Shuichi and they fell down on the bed. Shuichi began to panic, but Kaede asked him to hug her even tighter. Kaede admits that Shuichi's heartbeat is her favorite tune and that if Shuichi encourages her, she can do anything. Finally, Kaede asks if Shuichi will "do it with her" and he pulls her closer to him without saying a word. It's heavily implied that Kaede and Shuichi had sex afterward.

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Kaito Momota
Kaito quickly becomes Shuichi's closest companion following Kaede's demise, and they come to share a close bond. After Kaede was executed in the first trial, Kaito states how Shuichi pisses him off the most and immediately punched him in the face, saying that he's angry Shuichi didn't do anything to stand up to Monokuma, and that it was disrespectful to Kaede's memory to sit there and do nothing. Kaito backs down when the others criticize him for punching Shuichi, though, and when everyone leaves the trial room, he suggests Shuichi visit Kaede's talent lab. He says that although Monokuma made it, it was filled with things Kaede loved. Taking his leave, Shuichi follows his advice and visits Kaede's lab.

The morning after, he visits Shuichi's dorm to apologize for yelling and punching at him, and tells him that he's there to take Shuichi to breakfast. It was shown that Kaito visits Shuichi often and invites him to hang out with him, and makes him his "sidekick". They investigate together and help one another, Kaito saying that if Shuichi needs support, he'll always be around to help him. When Shuichi's stuck with clues in the Class Trial or feeling unconfident in his abilities, Kaito helps Shuichi by motivating him and staying on his side. In the original Japanese version, Kaito started to call Shuichi by his first name, while calling him "bro" in the English version, proving that the two shared a close bond.

They become distant after Chapter 4, because Shuichi had chosen to doubt Gonta as Miu's killer, which is actually led by Kokichi. Kaito, unwilling to accept the fact that Shuichi had a different opinion as a detective, becomes shocked and starts to distant himself. However, the two manage to mend their friendship during Chapter 5 and Kaito once again tells Shuichi to believe in himself and Kaito, just before the murder happened.

Shuichi was greatly saddened to discover that Kaito was the one who kill Kokichi in Chapter 5. Kaito told Shuichi that he was, actually, jealous of Shuichi for his deduction abilities. Because of his reasoning, they were able to stay alive, passing many Class Trials. Kaito made him promise not to cry, however, Shuichi had immense difficulty following through on this. When asked by Maki if he was lonely with Kaito gone, Shuichi confirmed this and admits that Kaito is the only reason why he is still alive. He was once again motivated by the death of another friend and was determined to keep moving forward. Many of Shuichi's happy memories during the killing game were shown to involve Kaito, showing that he still remembered him as a close friend and companion.

In Chapter 6, Shuichi felt upset when he figured out that his and Kaito's friendship is part of the fabrication along with Kaito's personality. However, Shuichi felt motivated by K1-B0 and believed that their friendship is true.

In general, Shuichi greatly admires Kaito for his honesty and helpfulness, though he does recognize his sillier moments. According to Shuichi, he has never been around someone like Kaito, and he says that his own insecurities and anxiety fade away in his company. He thinks it might be what he has been missing all this time and that "only someone like Kaito could tell him what he needs to hear". During Kaito's Free Time Events, Shuichi even gets a bit flustered by his own thoughts and feelings towards Kaito, considering that he's a boy. During the Love Suite Event, he also gets flustered when Kaito corners him against the wall, and thinks it's hard to stay calm with Kaito so close to him in such a place. In Chapter 4, when the other students agree that Shuichi is a masochist, Maki points out seriously that Shuichi always looks so pleased whenever Kaito gives him orders and appears happy as the sidekick, and that he might just be into that sort of thing.

Maki Harukawa
Shuichi and Maki got along well after the events of Chapter 2, after Kaito brought Maki to their training regime. This resulted in the three doing exercises together, although Maki outmatched the two boys at everything they did. Shuichi seemed impressed with Maki's skills, and the three began to meet up nightly to do these exercises. As the two grew closer, Maki began to feel more comfortable around Shuichi, although she still had some trouble trusting others. Despite her cold and rather intimidating demeanor, Shuichi is one of the students who trusts Maki despite her status as an assassin.

Although Shuichi initially only trusted Maki because of Kaito, he grows to genuinely care for and believe in her. In Chapter 3, when Maki confides in him about her not feeling "human", Shuichi assured her that he can relate, as he has his own insecurities about his work as a detective. Because of this, Shuichi strongly supported Kaito's decision to take down Maki's "mask", as he believed he is the only one who can help her open up.

During murders, Maki often reminds Shuichi to "get a grip" as he is the detective. She even assisted Shuichi during Chapter 3's investigation, helping him creating hypotheses and finding clues. When on the discussion of Tenko's last moments, Shuichi and Maki work together to lie about Tenko dying instantly, so she wouldn't be able to kill herself inside the cage, despite Maki being the one who suggested this method in the first place. Shuichi told Maki that she helped him a lot with the investigation, although Maki only said that she found him surprisingly reliable during the investigation.

During the events of the virtual world in Chapter 4, Maki did make a point to remind Shuichi that he's a person before he's a detective, which he's touched by, despite her telling him he's more reliable during a murder case than daily life. Nonetheless, it's apparent the two have grown quite close to each other, with her asking if he's okay, making sure if he and Kaito aren't fighting when Shuichi forcibly logged him out to test something.

In Chapter 5, their relationship is slightly strained after Kokichi captured Kaito. When Maki attempted to save him, Shuichi held her back out of fear for her safety, claiming he did't care if she is upset with his decision, or even wanted to kill him. Although Maki backs down, she angrily calls him a coward, to Shuichi's dismay. During the fifth trial, she repeatedly attempts to steer the crime into her own fault, threatening and insulting Shuichi when said Kaito was the one who survived, claiming that he was getting in her way to defeat Kokichi. Shuichi was visibly saddened by the fact that Maki did not share his belief in Kaito's survival, as he thought she would be take his side on the matter. Despite this, he still strongly wanted to believe in Maki when it started to appear as if she was the culprit, and appeared relieved when Maki's testimony turned out to be flawed, proving she was not Kaito's killer. However, the two came to a disagreement again after Shuichi suggested Kaito murdered Kokichi, until Kaito came out and confirmed Shuichi's story.

After Kaito's execution in Chapter 5, Maki and Shuichi went to their normal training spot and had a short, but emotional conversation about the events that had transpired, seemingly putting their previous falling out behind them and mending their friendship. Joined by Tsumugi and Himiko, they trained together and mourned Kaito. Shuichi and Maki then resolve to put an end to the Killing Game together along with everyone else.

During Chapter 6, Shuichi and Maki rely on one another as they investigate the school together. Shuichi expressed happiness at the fact that he and Maki have reached the point where he can tell that she's joking. During the last trial, it was partially because of Maki and K1-B0's offer to sacrifice herself that inspired Shuichi to abandon his vote, as he admitted the thought of Maki dying scared him due to what happened to Kaede and Kaito. Shuichi gave Maki courage to end the Killing Game, which resulted in her abandoning her vote as well. The two, along with Himiko, later survived together, escaping to the outside world.

During the Love Suite Event, Shuichi had the role of a kid from the same orphanage of Maki. Maki says that despite Shuichi and her being together for 10 years, she still didn't understand him. Shuichi is confused and Maki explains that he came to the orphanage a little before he entered elementary school. Shuichi agrees absentmindedly. Maki then again says that she really doesn't know everything about Shuichi. He then asks her what makes her think she doesn't know everything about him. She then blushes and Shuichi is confused at this. Maki says that Shuichi before used to play house with the other kids and it became difficult for her. She then asks Shuichi when he wanted to make a real family with her instead of a pretend one. Maki then goes silent and Shuichi asks whats wrong. Maki then gently held Shuichi's hand and says that she knew something was strange. Maki says that she wants to create a real family with Shuichi and not a fake one. Maki then asks Shuichi to promise her that he'll stay with her. Shuichi then nods his head as his answer.

Kokichi Oma
Shuichi doesn't trust Kokichi due to his lying and unpredictable actions. However, Kokichi appears to be amused by and in some way fond of Shuichi, having stated that the other boy seems "decently not boring", which is a very rare and notable compliment coming from him. It is implied that Kokichi has a crush on Shuichi. He regularly calls him his "beloved Saihara-chan" in the Japanese version, and occasionally calls him "mister detective" or "mister Ultimate Detective". He also once called Shuichi "Shumai", as a parody to Kaito's "Maki Roll" nickname for Maki. Kokichi enjoys his company, finding him one of the most interesting person in the group and praising him at times. He has also more than once mentioned that he is "constantly thinking about" Shuichi, and claims that he is his favorite who he loves the most. On his whiteboard, it's shown that Kokichi has a more positive, though slightly unclear impression of Shuichi, considering him "trustworthy?". Considering his hatred of boredom, it seems Kokichi is intrigued by Shuichi's development. During the trials, he often does not reveal Shuichi's lies even though he notices them.

While he enjoys to mess with him, Kokichi appears to feel some care for Shuichi and seems to be unwilling to actually harm him. Throughout his free time events, Kokichi tries to "kill" Shuichi and involves him in many of his selfishness and pranks, though he also seems to make sure Shuichi won't be harmed and seems to just mess with him with words. He also invites him to a tea party and suggests Shuichi could join his organization, so he doesn't have to die. In the last event, Kokichi hurts himself by playing the Knife Game and Shuichi takes care of him in worry. Kokichi is pleased by this and tells Shuichi he won, confusing the detective who answers that he wasn't even playing. Kokichi tells him that games can be won without playing them, foreshadowing the end of the killing game. He then claims he never had an intention to actually kill him. Since he has made Shuichi think about him constantly, he claims he has already "killed" him by "stealing his heart".

In the second class trial's back route, Kokichi notices Shuichi's lie, but decides not to say anything about it, instead he supports Shuichi to present the evidence of Kirumi's crime since she's the only one who can do it. Shuichi thinks of Kokichi's actions as an "unexpected assist".

During Chapter 3, when the students talk about the resurrection ritual, Kokichi claims he'd rather have Kaede over Rantaro to come back to life, because it would make Shuichi happy.

During Chapter 4, when everyone is inside Neo World Program, Kokichi claims he would cry if something happened to Shuichi with worried expression. When they're alone, he tries to offer his support for Shuichi, saying he wants to use him but also be useful to Shuichi as well. He attempts to separate Shuichi and Kaito, telling Shuichi that he should be his friend instead. Kokichi says he can help Shuichi save everyone, but Shuichi doesn't trust him and leaves without saying a word. Kokichi then mutters to himself about being dumbed and rejected by Shuichi, but he says he won't give up that easily. Kokichi then helps Shuichi during the investigation and begins to call himself Shuichi's partner. He also tries to keep Kaito away from Shuichi, claiming that Kaito and his beliefs are a bad influence on Shuichi, and that Shuichi is the only one who can save them.

During the fourth class trial, Kokichi keeps making fun of Kaito, especially whenever Kaito and Shuichi have a disagreement. He also keeps praising Shuichi and smugly points out whenever Shuichi agrees with his points and keeps emphasizing how well he and Shuichi work together. Shuichi mostly stays silent during these moments, appearing to feel a bit awkward and unsure of Kokichi's motives, though he does try to tell Kokichi to stop when he claims that Shuichi was "dissing" Kaito during their disagreement even though it wasn't true. Shuichi begins to feel increasingly suspicious of Kokichi and uses a lie against him, which seems to surprise Kokichi. Kokichi appears notably angered by this, saying that Shuichi has some balls lying to him, and then decides to ruin his fun as a detective by revealing the truth behind the case. Kokichi in general appears annoyed and angered because the other students hate lies so much, even ones that are harmless and used for good, and mocks them after the truth they love so much turns out to be so painful and hard to believe. After Gonta's execution, Kokichi seems to lose some of his sanity and begins to act exaggeratedly "evil". When he calls Kaito "pathetic", Shuichi speaks back to him by stating that Kaito always has them by his side, but nobody would want to be around Kokichi. He tells Kokichi he is alone and he will always be, which seems to genuinely affect Kokichi, whose face suddenly turns blank and he complains things got boring and he doesn't care anymore. In the end, Shuichi considers Kokichi an "embodiment of lies".

In Kokichi's Love Suite scene, his fantasy involves him being a legendary thief who's been captured by his archenemy, the detective Shuichi Saihara, with the scene including lots of sexual tension. It's revealed that Kokichi let himself to be caught on purpose and actually wishes to get tied up and "interrogated" roughly, but Shuichi does not want to hurt him and is confused by the situation, which seems to disappoint Kokichi a bit. Shuichi continues to act very hesitant and Kokichi says it does not matter how Shuichi feels, though he soon states he was lying about that. Kokichi asks if Shuichi is mad because he feels like Kokichi is playing with his heart and he says his head is always filled with thoughts of Shuichi. He tries to trick Shuichi by claiming that they are surrounded by Kokichi's subordinates, but Shuichi can tell he is lying. Kokichi then confesses he wanted to be caught by Shuichi and wouldn't mind whatever Shuichi would do to him with a deep sensual voice, stating this is the truth while having a blank expression, which is heavily implied to be a sign of honesty in him. Since Shuichi does not make a move, Kokichi says he wants to play with him and do a lot more with, and pushes him on the bed. Shuichi tries to tell Kokichi to wait, slightly panicking and flustered by the situation, which turns Kokichi very silent and serious. He suddenly claims he was just kidding and suddenly runs off, which confuses Shuichi even more and he shouts after Kokichi. He wishes the other boy would stay, but quickly smothers the thought. Right before leaving the room, Kokichi says he wishes to have more fun games with the detective next time they meet.

This is the only fantasy sequence in which Shuichi has his true role as the detective, and surprised Shuichi emphasizes in his thoughts that they're both themselves unlike in most other fantasy sequences, which might hint that Kokichi is indeed attracted to him.

During the bonus mode, Shuichi realizes that he cannot change Kokichi's lying which is a significant part of him and instead should try to understand him and his lies. In the end, Shuichi blushes while admitting to himself that he is intrigued by Kokichi, being drawn in and always wanting to know more about him. Kokichi thinks this made all the lying worth it and says they should keep their relationship going after they get out of the academy, so that Shuichi can get to know the real him.

During one event in the bonus mode, Kokichi claims that he truly respects police officers, who fight the bad guys yet get blamed by the public. He then says that the same goes for detectives and he gives Shuichi a somewhat back-handed compliment, saying that he's really amazing for taking such boring and unprofitable job. Interestingly, for once, he does not mention anything about it being a truth or a lie during the conversation.

Tsumugi Shirogane
The two were in good terms with each other and actually tried to help with each other with the situation. However, in Chapter 6, Shuichi was furious and horrified when he figured out that Tsumugi was the mastermind behind the whole killing game. Despite this, he still wanted her to argue and prove his deduction as incorrect showing that he doesn't consider her any less of a fellow friend or comrade, nor does he wish to condemn her either.

When she acknowledges his claims that she was the one who killed Rantaro and framed Kaede for Rantaro's death, Shuichi seemed to have broken all former ties with her and resolved himself to stop her and end the killing game. Shuichi became noticeably depressed when Tsumugi told him that his memories, feelings, talent, and personality were all fabricated for the sake of the killing game, but he is brought back to his sense when K1-B0 motivated Shuichi to not give up and lose hope.

During their Free Time Events, the two got along quite well. Shuichi would listen to Tsumugi about what it means to be cosplayer, how much time and work goes into it, and how she became interested in cosplay in the first place. In the end, Tsumugi believes that Shuichi may have developed an interest in cosplay through their interactions and encourages him to try any costume of his choosing, believing he would look good in just about anything. As they listed off ideas, Tsumugi coincidentally listed off White Kanata as a costume he would look good in, which just so happened to be his favorite hero. Tsumugi became ecstatic upon realizing that she and him shared similar interests, as her friend who got her into cosplay in the first place also dressed as White Kanata. She grabbed his hand and flailed it up and down wildly, but became embarrassed when she realized they were holding hands, apologized, and let go, hinting at some sort of mutual attraction. In the end, Shuichi agreed to go to a con with her and try cosplaying out just once, mentally thinking to himself that they had become true friends. 

However, given Tsumugi's role as the Mastermind of the Killing School Semester, and her highly deceptive nature, it us unclear just how genuine this friendship is or if it was ever genuine at all.

In the Love Suite scene, Shuichi had a role of being Tsumugi's step brother. Shuichi was surprised when Tsumugi said that she likes him not as a brother. Tsumugi felt uneasy when Shuichi did not called her by her first name. She felt negative and asked Shuichi to encourage her by placing his hand on her cheek and she did to his cheek which he felt embarrassed about. Shuichi realized that they were acting like an actual couple but Tsumugi despite the fact of Shuichi not becoming her lover. In the end, Tsumugi told Shuichi that he loves her and it was implied that they had sex afterwards.

Gonta Gokuhara
Shuichi generally treats Gonta in a gentle and patient manner, as he understands that Gonta is a very kind and innocent person. However, he can be a bit frightened whenever Gonta loses his temper. He can also be a bit uncomfortable with the way Gonta puts him on a pedestal due to him acting kind towards Gonta or because he seemingly possessed knowledge about gentlemen. During the Free Time Events, Shuichi helps Gonta to appreciate himself more.

During the fourth trial, Shuichi is shocked at the idea of Gonta being the culprit, with him even contemplating for a moment that the error in the virtual world may have somehow changed his gentle personality. However, unlike most other students, he thinks sensibly and wishes to discuss the possibility, because it is his job to find the truth no matter how painful. Even after it becomes more and more clear that Gonta is the culprit, Shuichi continues to treat crying and shocked Gonta with kindness and patience, and stops Kokichi from making him feel even more bad. With gentle but serious manner, he begins to summarize the murder case and tells Gonta that he can just tell him when he's convinced and that they can end it together.

During the Love Suite scene, Shuichi plays along with Gonta's fantasy about having a practice partner for party, though he is confused at first and isn't particularly fond of playing the lady role despite the fact that it's pretense even in the fantasy scenario. Gonta is overwhelmed by Shuichi's kindness and despite Shuichi's attempts to calm him down, he grabs Shuichi's shoulders and they accidentally fall on the bed. Shuichi is intimidated by Gonta's massive body on top of him, and Gonta quickly gets up and is horrified by what he had done, even though it was just an accident. Shuichi tries to tell him it's okay, but Gonta feels very guilty because he noticed Shuichi had been afraid and tells him that he would never want to hurt him. Shuichi appears a bit surprised and touched that Gonta had noticed his fear at the moment, and comforts Gonta with a smile and assures that he's okay and they can continue practicing. Gonta promises to be a perfect companion and take care of Shuichi, which Shuichi believes as he reciprocates to Gonta's manners by offering his hand. Shuichi is convinced that Gonta is a gentleman, though the moment is a bit ruined by Gonta's assumption that "keep you up all night" is a correct gentlemanly response to this situation.

Rantaro Amami
When Rantaro met Kaede and Shuichi, Shuichi seemed confused how Rantaro mentioned about everyone gathering and getting amnesia. He thinks he is some way mysterious and has some clues about his backstory. Rantaro is shown to have strong faith in Shuichi's abilities and considers him a real detective even though Shuichi himself doesn't. Later in Chapter 1, Shuichi became quite hostile towards Rantaro based on his suspicions about him being the mastermind and forgetting his talent.

In the Love Suite event, Rantaro has the role of a private tutor or a teacher of Shuichi. As the situation reflects the relationship between Rantaro and his younger siblings, he treats Shuichi like a child, which makes him a bit uncomfortable. Because of this, Rantaro assumed that Shuichi dislikes him, but Shuichi denies it. Rantaro is relieved that Shuichi doesn't despise him, but he states that he no longer would be his teacher, as he thinks he made Shuichi uneasy and he could be in danger with him. He wishes to protect Shuichi, so he wouldn't lose another person that is very important to him. He mentions the possibility of himself dying and while he claims he was joking, Shuichi doesn't believe him. Shuichi tells Rantaro he would rather hear his story even if it is a risk rather than leave Rantaro to deal with it alone. In the end of the event, Rantaro feels very glad, trusting Shuichi even more and waiting for the time to tell him his story.

During the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Rantaro slowly warms up to and explains his situation to Shuichi. He is very glad that Shuichi believes in his goal to find his sisters, since nobody else does. Shuichi promises to become Rantaro's traveling companion in the search of his sisters, which could even last a lifetime, and Rantaro is motivated to become a real Ultimate Big Brother with his support.

K1-B0
At first, Shuichi thought K1-B0 was one of Monokuma's relative which he declined however. Shuichi was surprised how K1-B0 was a robot and also their classmate.

In general, Shuichi appears to be nicer towards K1-B0 than most of the other students, but he still does occasionally say "robophobic" things that anger K1-B0. K1-B0 appeared especially offended and angered when he was kicked out of the seance and replaced with Shuichi, blaming the detective and telling him that he won't forget this. However, Shuichi does sometimes encourage K1-B0 by telling him that he's fine the way he is, but he also feels a bit awkward whenever the robot shows off his rather unimpressive functions.

During the Bonus Mode, in the Love Suite, K1-B0 wonders about the meaning of love and asks Shuichi to be his lover so he can learn about those emotions. The robot goes overboard with listing typical things lovers do together and Shuichi calms him down by saying that maybe they shouldn't be in a relationship if K1-B0 doesn't truly like him. K1-B0 turns unhappy and assumes he was rejected, but Shuichi tells him it's not like that. K1-B0 then confesses that he might have fallen in love with Shuichi and wishes to exchange warm words and hold hands with him. They both feel nervous, but decide to hold hands, which makes them feel more calm.

If K1-B0 has a good time with Shuichi during the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, he wouldn't like to go back to the dorm and wishes to spend more time with Shuichi. He then explains while blushing shyly that his chest feels warmer when he is with Shuichi and he feels very calm.

Miu Iruma
When Shuichi and Kaede first approached Miu, she assumed that Shuichi was staring at her breasts. Miu then called Shuichi a pervert and that was why he wore a hat. However, Shuichi then stands up for himself and Miu gets startled by this as she thought he was a weakling.

Throughout the game, Miu gave Shuichi a lot of nickname such as Kusaihara, Kuzuhara, Unogahara, Dasaihara, and Hamehara.

During the Love Suite event, Shuichi had the role of Miu's childhood friend. Miu tells Shuichi that she would allow him to sleep with her. Shuichi gets confused and Miu immediately gets annoyed at him. Shuichi asks her what she meant and Miu becomes annoyed and sad and wonders how he could be her childhood friend if he couldn't remember. She explains that when they were younger he always took care of her and still to this day. She says that he is the only one who knows her true self and he helped her become the Ultimate Inventor. Miu then says she wants to have Shuichi's kids and he immediately becomes shocked again. Miu then says how talented their kids would be with both of their talents combined. Shuichi becomes silent and Miu gets upset again as she thinks she's not good enough for him and wants to have his kids so he can't get rid of her. Shuichi begins to stutter as Miu tries to force him into having sex with her. Miu then moves towards Shuichi. It is implied that they slept together afterwards.

Kirumi Tojo
When they first met, Shuichi realized who Kirumi really is and is surprised how she is popular because of her talent. She seems to care for Shuichi and obey him and the rest of their classmates. She even told Kaito to stop hurting Shuichi after the first trial ended.

Kirumi was really disappointed when Shuichi pointed her out as the culprit in the second trial. She still hadn't accepted her fate and tried to vote Shuichi as the culprit. He was depressed and upset when he got to see another friend getting killed. He seems to be also one of those people who tried to tell Kirumi to run away from her execution.

In the bonus Love Suite scene, Shuichi has a role of being Kirumi's master.

Korekiyo Shinguji
Korekiyo considers Shuichi a good guy but doesn't want him nor any other male to become friends with his sister. During the events of Korekiyo's Free Time Events, he would teach Shuichi any kind of knowledge and questions that he is curious about passionately such as differences among anthropology, history, and archaeology. The mysterious upbringing of Korekiyo intrigued Shuichi's curiosity as well, as he observed eagerly whether Korekiyo will take his mask off when he is eating and even asking him a myth that resonates with him. In Korekiyo's last Free Time Event, Shuichi who fully trusted him happily agreed with him to join on a field trip with him after they escaped the Killing Game as his first disciple.

As the Killing Game continues, Shuichi continues to find Korekiyo a bit creepy, but has more trust in him. In Chapter 3, Korekiyo offered his help to let Shuichi communicate with Kaede's spirit, but he politely turned him down as he said that the only thing he wanted to say for the fallen victims is that he and the others finally manage to survive. He was also shown to be very creeped out about the way Korekiyo was talking about the rituals and the dead, and wanted to exit the conversation quickly. After Korekiyo was executed by Monokuma for his wrongdoing for killing Angie and Tenko, Shuichi has conflicted feelings about him. He still trusted him as a friend, yet he doubted Korekiyo would stop killing more victims for his sister even after they survive.

During his Love Suite fantasy event, Korekiyo has accepted to spend a night with Shuichi, though he makes it clear that there would never be love between them. In Korekiyo's fantasy, his partner requested to try BDSM with him, but Shuichi is unaware of this and he feels uncomfortable around Korekiyo, thinking that he is a bit scared of him, but is nevertheless curious about his fantasy. Korekiyo asks if Shuichi is afraid and gives him a permission to run. He claims it will be scary only for the first time and pulls out rope from under the bed, which immediately causes Shuichi to attempt escaping. However, Korekiyo catches his hand and pushes him on the bed, stating that he never said he wouldn't stop Shuichi if he ran. Korekiyo expresses interest in the beauty Shuichi will show, saying he will teach him thoroughly and make him feel the kind of pleasure he has never felt before. Shuichi is afraid of the potentially dangerous situation and can only gulp as he's unable to escape, but then his mind begins to turn blank and he starts to relax, and it's heavily implied that Korekiyo got what he wanted in the end. When Shuichi wakes up in his own bed the next morning, he wonders if it was just a dream, though he still feels quite sore.

During Korekiyo's graduation event in the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Korekiyo says that he wants to travel with Shuichi and then introduce him to his sister because he is such a good friend, even though he was originally against the idea and doesn't normally allow any males close to her. Shuichi is confused with him talking about his "lover" and "sister", but he now has an unwavering trust in Korekiyo, unaware of the danger the other possesses.

Free Time
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Shuichi Saihara
Presents
Shuichi Pixel Head Icon
Shuichi Saihara
Loves:	037. Travel Journal, 111. Gun of Man's Passion, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	001. Oolong Tea, 003. Ginger Tea, 009. Astro Cake, 017. Gyoza In the Shape of a Face, 023. Workout Clothes, 032. Cufflinks, 044. Tennis Ball Set, 045. High-End Headphones, 046. Teddy Bear, 048. Illusion Rod, 056. Indigo Hakama, 059. Plastic Moon Buggy Model, 062. Commemorative Medal Set, 067. Proxilingual Device, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 077. Clock-Shaped Gaming Console, 082. Upbeat Humidifier, 085. Weathercock of Barcelous, 095. Home Planet, 097. Sparkly Sheet
Quotes
DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"I'm... Shuichi Saihara. They call me the Ultimate Detective, but..."
"We can't rule out suspects that way... We need to look at all the possibilities."
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"Ah, well...some dangers are hidden where you can't see."
Chapter 1:

"Kaede...it's not your fault. The underground passage was a trap. It was a trap to get us to think we could work together, then crush our hopes."
"Being strong-willed could get you into a lot of trouble around here..."
"...I'm not a real detective, Kaede. What kind of stupid detective is afraid of finding the truth?"
"For now...we need to trust each other and start a serious investigation. If we all lose our trust in one another because of this...it's all over! We have to believe in each other and investigate this case."
"We need to investigate this murder. Not because we don't trust each other, but because we *do*."
"You're not going to give up, right? You're...going to save everyone."
"I won't let your wish... ...go ungranted."
"Kaede wants me to reveal the truth. She trusts me with her wish... So...I can't back down. I need to fulfill her wish! I need to fight for the truth!"
"I didn't want to figure it out... I didn't want to know... But... I can't turn away from the truth..."
"I said I wouldn't back down. I made a promise!"
"...I need to answer! For her sake...I can't turn away from the truth!"
"Not at all. My belief in you...is gonna lead me to the truth! I'll show you what's behind all this! I'll show you your truth!"
"Kaede...why? Why are you smiling like that...? Why are you still trying to get me to be brave? Why, Kaede!? Why are you thinking about everyone except yourself!? If you had just been less selfless, you wouldn't have had to murder... Why...? Why do you do that?"
"I know we can do something! Don't give up until the end!"
"Yeah...I'll try. I don't know if I can do it, but... No...I'll do it! I have to believe in myself... I won't be afraid anymore. I will face the truth...for everyone. I promise."
Chapter 2:

"It sounds like everyone has taken Kaede's final wish to heart. Even if Kaede is no longer with us... Kaede's wish will never vanish!"
"That's not true, it's because of the wish Kaede gave me that I have to keep moving..."
"I made a promise...that I won't give up."
"I can't stand around doing nothing! I...promised her!"
"I'm...scared. I try hard not to be, but I'm scared. I can't stop thinking about...the pain and sadness that comes if I reveal the truth. That's what I'm afraid of..."
"Listen... I can't even begin to imagine what your life has been like... And I know that this is going to sound cliche, but... You shouldn't give up on life. If you keep living...I'm sure good things will happen."
"This investigation is to save all of our lives...because we're risking our lives in the Class Trial!"
"I don't think...you can uncover clues just by thinking about them..."
"He's right... I just have to do it. I have to believe in myself. I have to *believe* that I can do it. I'm going to survive. We're going to survive, together. Maybe I don't really understand it, maybe I don't have a reason— No! I want to live! I want to live a long life! I don't want to die! I can't die in a place like this! Never!"
"If this is where I find the truth... I won't avert my eyes anymore. This is...the wish she entrusted to me. I *will* find the truth. To get out of here, with everyone. Alive. I'm going to survive. I can't die here. In order to keep my promise to her... I will fight. I will fight for my life in this trial of truth and lies!"
"...I'm the Ultimate Detective. So it's up to me."
"Heh...it's true. That's not what a Class Trial is about. You're supposed to think logically, you can't let your feelings into it... ...It's absurdity, total absurdity. But then again...that absurdity saved me before, right? If I can trust my logic...maybe I should trust Kaito's feelings, too."
"Now you understand why I don't want your charade—I want the truth."
"It seems like our opinions are split on this matter...but if we focus on the evidence, the facts will become clear. All I have to do is show them and make them accept it. If I can't get them to see the truth now, my lie would have been for nothing... ...I won't fail."
"When we aren't consistent, our position looks weak. We have to work together!"
"That's important to remember... It's not as if everyone here *wants* us to find the truth. One of us is trying to sabotage this trial... If we can determine where this all started, we can determine how it ended. Yes, it's much too soon to quit. The trial has only just begun!"
"I will solve this mystery and show everyone the truth!"
"I...made a promise. As the Ultimate Detective, I made a promise to seek the truth. I made a promise to Kaede! So I'm not turning back now!"
"They're scared... They're scared that they have to accuse one of their friends of murder. So it's up to me... I have to do it. I'll use my detective work to prove it!"
"I'm doing this *because* I want to protect everyone! Your words aren't going to convince me now. Not when I know the truth."
"No more doubts... I'm confident I'm right!"
"In the end...I'm just like them. I'm scared of revealing the truth. Because it means that someone has to be sacrificed. But Kaede was scared, too... She didn't let that stop her. She thoughts thing through to the end. I faced the truth, and doubted it, and kept thinking, and kept going... This is where it led me. And I won't turn away from it."
"Maybe... Maybe facing the truth isn't enough."
Chapter 3:

"Even if it were possible to speak with the dead... I don't have anything to say. Not yet. The only thing I'd want to say is... We escaped. We finally got out of here..."
"Perhaps running isn't too bad... Perhaps we aren't strong enough to face it. In order to live until the end..." (About Kirumi's demise)
"Ryoma, you wanted to fight with us, didn't you? Was that not enough reason to live? You could've fought with us, we could've fought together...then you could have lived. We...couldn't have been your reason to live?"
"Yes, I can't back down now. The power of love in my chest has filled my throbbing heart! Full charge! I have no choice. I *must* go!"
"Overthinking things and worrying about what I "need" to do... When I'm with Kaito, I feel like...all of that stuff just fades away."
"I never once *wanted* to be a detective. I actually thought it wasn't too great a job. Uncovering people's secrets for money? ...It's the worst. But now, I feel completely different. If it's going to help my friends, I'll do it."
"My goal is the same as Kaede's. Get out of here, with everyone. And that means...I need to do something."
"The effigies were nearly perfect, but the real bodies still had traces of a soul. A soul desperate to live, struggling, fighting for life... That's something that can never be replicated. No matter what technology you have, you can't fake a soul."
"I don't know a lot about this place...but I don't know a lot about anyone either. That could be a good thing...or it could be a bad thing."
"In any case, I should focus on what I can do. What the Ultimate Detective can do..."
"Tenko's death caught us all off guard... Everyone is panicking. I have to keep it together. I have to work harder. Because I'm...a detective."
"I need to find the truth and pin down the culprit. For Tenko...and all of us."
"But this is bigger than the killing game. For the sake of the two who died... I need to reveal the truth of *both* their deaths."
"In order to live...we have to find the truth! ...And I will fight for it. I will fight wirh truth and lies in this Class Trial!"
"We shouldn't be satisfied with that. And if we keep thinking, we'll find the truth. And that means...we have to believe in Tenko! I'll make them all believe!"
"But...we can't give up. We survived. We can't give up, for the sake of everyone who died..."
"Live life facing forward." She said that to you, right? If you give up on living...you'd be betraying her memory. We're...all trying to keep our promises to the dead. This trial...it's not just for our lives, it's for everyone who's died as well. That's why we can't give up! This is our responsibility! We live on!"
"If implicating Himiko was the plan, then disrupting that plan might teach us something. For that reason...I have to lie!"
"I have to pin down the evidence and convince everyone!"
"Well...that's why we have to work together, right? Face it together. Our Ultimate talents are the best weapons we have."
"The tears we shed... I can't even describe it. We were crying about what we had been through, and what was to come... Sadness, hatred, frustration, discord, anger, love... Tears filled with emotion. But at the very least...they weren't tears of submission. They were tears to push us forward."
Chapter 4:

"Tenko... It's not embarrassing to express your feelings, it's only human... Himiko has changed, just like you wanted. She's not so lazy anymore... She's working hard, trying to live well. But...you exchanged your life for that. It's not fair..."
"Kiyo, you said... How you come to terms with death determines how you live. Perhaps...I understand what you mean. By facing Kaede's death...I was able to embrace my own talent and move forward. ... But I don't know if I'll ever truly understand your answer."
"Angie... You had strange methods, but you rejected the killing game and wanted us to live in harmony. But all that was taken away for some stupid reason. I never knew your Atua, but I will never forget you."
"I'm just happy... It's, ah, really nice that you're working with us like this."
"There's a fine line between criminal and detective."
"The only time I can use my detective talent is after someone dies... A detective...can't save anyone. I'm only useful after it's already too late."
"We can't keep going like this... We need to find a way out. I need to solve all of these mysteries."
"I need to keep my promise to Kaede. I need to find the truth."
"I promise, I'll go right back afterwards. And I'll make sure we stick together." (to Gonta)
"I know you want to be positive, but that doesn't mean you have to start sprinting. You don't want to live *too* fast. It makes me worried."
"My friends die...and all I can do is solve their murder after it's over. There has to be something more I can do..."
"To protect my friends... I need to reveal the truth of this academy. I need to face the truth and reveal it to the world. I have to...to keep my friends alive."
"I hope Maki is right. We can learn more about each other after we get out... No. We will become friends! We will definitely get out of here!"
"My ability...is to gather evidence and reveal the truth. So I can't run away from this."
"...Alright. My talent...is solving mysteries. So that's what I'm going to do."
"The fact is, if we don't find out who the culprit is, we'll all be executed. But I won't let that happen. I'll find the culprit so that we can all survive."
"Regardless...there's only one thing I can do. I can't be afraid... I can't get lost now. In order to protect everyone, I have to do something."
"Yes...I have to keep it together. This is the only time my talent can shine. I'm not just saving my life...everyone's life is on the line. If I can't find the truth here, everyone will be sacrificed... And I will never let that happen—"
"There's no way to get used to it, really. The fear of death. We were all fighting it, trying to be courageous. We all felt as though we were going to our own execution. No, not an execution. A test of our will to survive!"
"What we have to do is find the culprit who killed Miu. It doesn't matter how many little mysteries we solve, if we can't find the culprit... It would all be for nothing."
"I might not like it, but... I have to be agressive. If we don't get the whole truth now, everyone's lives are in danger."
"If we want the truth, we might have to ask uncomfortable questions... I know how important is to believe. But as the Ultimate Detective... ...I know we can't solve this case with belief alone."
"But as the Ultimate Detective, I can't turn away from the truth! I need to find the truth!"
"We have to face the truth, even if we don't want to. We have to defend that point!"
"That's not it at all. I just want the truth. If we're going to survive, I have to find the truth!"
"I need to face the truth... Everyone's lives are on the line!"
"Kaito, I know how you feel. I know because we all feel it. But...we have to face the truth. No matter how cruel that truth may be, we *need* to face it...to survive."
"I can't doubt my detective work. If I want us all to survive, I can't back down!"
"Pathetic? Look at yourself, Kokichi. Kaito always has us by his side, see? But no one wants to be around you. You're alone, Kokichi. And you always will be."
"I thought... I thought I could help... I wanted us all to survive... And I wanted it so damn bad, I kept fighting for it, figthing for the truth... By trying to survive, we're just playing the stupid game... ...Just like Kokichi."
Chapter 5:

"I don't think you need a makeover. You're great just the way you are, Keebo!"
"Perhaps Kaito's confidence is baseless... But it's sort of a relief to have someone so confident in a time like this. A hero... He might really be one."
"I suppose there's no point worrying about that. Not if I want to focus on moving forward. It's the only thing I can do... Keep moving forward."
"That's right... That's exactly right. To keep the promise I made to Kaede... I will never give up! I can't give up!"
"Beyond this door is our normal, peaceful, boring lives... We'll be able to go home... To those normal lives..."
"Let's fight, together! Against despair!"
"We all stood in unison. We each felt the power of hope coursing through us, driving our bodies. The hope born in this academy, a tree of life with roots down deep... It was supporting each and every one of us."
"I won't hesitate anymore. Kaito has taught me... I have to do it. To live, to find a reason to live... I will fight."
"We need to find the truth here, with our own hands. And reveal that truth in the trial."
'I don't know if we'll find hope or despair...but we have to find the truth. It all starts there."
"To solve this mystery and find the truth behind it... I'm going to begin the investigation!"
"There are still questions... The truth is still far out of reach."
"We had lost the will to live, knowing what we know about the outside world. But somehow...despite that despair, we had found a new reason to live. To win the battle between hope and despair. We don't know what hope means to us anymore. What is hope....? A burden you bear?"
"I can't say for certain...but I still believe. But I will fight to prove it. I will fight with everyone. To grasp the hope on the other side of this truth..."
"If we keep discussing the case, I'm sure we'll see the truth!"
"...I can't look away from the truth."
"Maybe we do have the truth now, but this isn't over. We have a choice to make. We don't have to follow where the evidence leads. Kaito told me that only I would be able to grasp what lies beyond the truth. That means finding the truth is not enough. We need to grasp the hope just beyond it."
"If you don't tell us the truth right now, you'll be an accomplice to Kokichi's lies. Does that sound like a fair game? Would you say this Class Trial is fair?"
"I believe in my own logic... And...I believe in Kaito... From this point on, it's not about logic! It's about how far I'm willing to go! I believe in you, Kaito. Not as a detective...but as Shuichi Saihara."
"A lie...or the truth? Even now at the very end, I don't really understand Kokichi... But maybe that's what lying is all about. The truth is in the eye of the beholder, huh? Kokichi...was the very embodiment of a lie."
"I don't care if you're sick! I don't care if you're dying! I won't let Monokuma touch you!"
"That's...enough! Enough of your bullshit, Monokuma! I made a promise to Kaito! I will end this killing game! And to give Kaito's death meaning, I swear I *will* keep my promise!"
"Someone we all trusted, and Someone none of us trusted... We lost the both."
"I'm sure that our friends who've passed on...don't want to see us miserable."
"Monokuma said that there's no hope anywhere... But he's wrong. There is hope. My friends are my hope."
"Kaito said it best... I'm not alone. That's right. I have friends. Not just my friends here, but also friends who have died... They all gave us their hope too. That's why...I'm going to live. I want to live for everyone who died. Despair cannot defeat me. I will hold on, and survive no matter what. Thank you...Kaito."
Chapter 6:

"Our hope is...everyone here. Our friends who are still alive."
"Because there might still be hope. There might still be a place to call home. If there are still questions to answer, then we haven't found the truth. And that means...we can't give up! We can't give up before we reach the truth!"
"...Just as I said before. We need to find the truth in order to end this killing game. To truly end this killing game, we must find this mastermind of despair... and also find hope. But if we look for it, we just might find it. If we don't try...we'll never find anything. So we have to try."
"We need to find the hope and despair hidden in this academy... When all is revealed... this killing game will end!"
"I have to determine which things he said were the truth and which were lies."
"But all mysteries conceal some truth... There is still a truth to find in this killing game. Whether that truth is hope or despair...is another matter entirely."
"I'm going to do everything I can... No giving up... I won't give up on hope... I need to keep hope alive..."
"We trusted her when she said to leave everything to her. If we just stand around here, we're not respecting her wishes."
"If we reveal the whole truth there, we can end this killing game."
"I don't want Monokuma to win. *We're* going to win. Our hope is going to end this game of despair! That ending *is* hope for us. ...And we can't give up on hope."
"Our final battle! Our hope will defeat your despair!"
"...No sense worrying about that now. We've come this far, we just have to do it. To end this killing game, we have to follow his rules one last time... and win this Class Trial."
"There's no point in worrying anymore. Right now...we only need to think about getting out of here alive."
"I'm sure...this is the end of despair. And the beginning of hope. Everything ends here. Everything."
"Reaching the truth *together* is what cooperation means to me!"
"Although we were forced into these class trials by the mastermind, that's how we survived! It was the only way... It was the only way we could survive!"
"No matter how many false memories we've been implanted with, *we* aren't fictional!"
"The reason we're all here right now is because of them... Because of them... I was able to change. That's why I was tryng to live for them, too... I was trying so hard to stay positive... But...if even that's a lie..."
"I can't fight...for a lie, can I?"
"Everything's a lie... Everything's meaningless... Everything we've done, everything we've faced together... ...All of our feelings..."
"We got this far...and you're telling us to sacrifice more of our friends?"
"It's because of hope that this killing games is happening! I reject that hope!"
"The people watching probably feel the same way... They want hope, too. Even if it's fiction, everyone wants to feel hope... It gives them...courage. And this killing game continues because we keep giving them the hope they want. While they ignore all the tragedies that we had to suffer to get there!"
"Don't you see? If hope wins, the killing won't stop! It's *because* hope wins that the killing never stops! That's why I'm going to reject that hope."
"No, you don't get it! Killing game not going to end, it's going to keep happening! Over and over!"
"When Maki said she was going to sacrifice herself just now, I thought... Why? So many of our friends have sacrificed their lives. Why Maki? Why now? Why do we have to go through it again...? The sorrow of losing Kaede...and Kaito... Why do we have to feel that sadness over and over and over again...? Why do we have to bear that burden...? Well, I don't care how much the audience wants it, I'm not gonna feel that way anymore! I don't want anyone to feel that way anymore!"
"Even if this is fiction, even if we're all fictional... The pain in my heart is real! The sadness I feel when I lose the people I love is real! I won't forgive this game that treats us like toys. And if this is what the world wants...then I reject that world! I'll fight the world that inflicts suffering for entertainment!"
"Then I'll fight the outside world from within this fiction."
"I reject both hope and despair!"
"I don't give a damn. This killing game is over anyway. New characters are created just to sow the outside world a fictional hope. They get written into these killing games, forced to betray one another... And at the end of the slaughter...the tragedy, the despair...hope always wins. Well I've had enough of it. We're going to end this right now! We won't let it end the way they want! We won't make a good ending or a bad one! To end this killing game...and end it forever... We will reject Danganronpa!"
"Tsumugi...you were right. I'm weak. I'm weaker than everyone else... If I didn't have my friends, I'd be useless. That's true even now! If Keebo and Maki didn't stand up... I would have ended it all right then. But it's because I'm weak and because I lost my way...that I finally realized. I finally realized how cruel this "hope" really is."
"Himiko, we can put an end to this insane killing game. But, Himiko...you have to choose, okay? You can't look away. You can't back down. You have to choose. Only those who have found the truth can choose their destiny!"
"Our lives are our strongest weapons! And with these weapons, we revolt against the outside world!"
"It's okay, Maki. Believe in me. And believe in yourself, just like you believed in Kaito. That's why you have to fight, even if you're scared. Because you have that strength. Come on, it'd be a lousy story if the hero gave up so easily!"
"Even if it is fiction! It's because of everyone's sacrifices that we've come this far! Their deaths have to be more than just fiction... There must be something we can do! We're going to use this fiction to change reality! We're going to end Danganronpa!"
"It's not that I want to die! We fought so hard to survive... Of course we don't want to die. But it's not just about us. Everyone who died in the killing games felt the same way. They were all desperate to live. They wanted to survive. For themselves...and for someone else. That desire...isn't fictional to us! That pain isn't fictional to us! To us, the killing game is real tragedy! That's why we have to stop it! We won't let this happen ever again!"
"We reject hope and despair! We refuse to bow to the demands of the outside world!"
"Fine, be bored... We're not here for your entertainment. We're trying to survive! You're the ones who want us to be entertaining! If you're going to complain...perhaps you should just stop watching. Even if we have to make the entire audience hate us, we're not going to stop. We're going to end our tragedy here."
"I know we can change the world! We owe it to Keebo to try! The impossible is possible! All you gotta do is make it so! You can even...change the world. No, we *will* change the world. For ourselves, and everyone who died."
"Even if we die, it's not the end! Our friends who died...gave us their love. And we changed because of that. If we can inspire change in others, then that love will live on. That love will tear down the wall between fiction and reality, and it will live on...forever. That's why...I'm going to change the world. As long as I have their love, I will change it! Even if this whole story is a lie... I will use that lie to change the world!"
"You never appreciated us... And it looks like you didn't appreciate the power of fiction! No one wants you anymore! No one wants to hear your sick, twisted stories anymore!"
"Come one, everyone! We should be proud! We were able to change the world in the end. If this is all just fiction, then everything we've achieved up till now might be a lie. But those lies... They changed the world. Even if we are just fictional characters someone made up. We were able to change the world."
Epilogue:

"The killing game is over... The class trials are over... And the fictional world...is over. So then...where are we? Another fictional world after the fiction has ended? What's left for us here?"
"53 times, hope moved forward. 53 times, the suffering continued. The world on the other side of the fiction, the real world."
"But we survived. ...And that's the truth."
"So, come on, everyone. Let's head outside. With confidence. The outside world is waiting."
"Yeah...but I feel like...there's not too much meaning in truth and lies... I mean that...even if something is a lie, even if it's fiction... If it has the power to change the world, then it must contain some kind of truth. Aren't we proof of that? In this fictional world, we overcame all these fictional struggles... But those things changed us. And we were able to change the world. So it doesn't really matter where the truth ends and where the lies begin. If lies can change the world just as well as the truth can... Then lies...are just another way of telling the truth. Some lies can lead the world to hope... Some truths can lead the world to despair... So I don't think anyone can really say which is more right in the end."
"We stand with one foot in fiction, and one foot in reality..."
"Yeah. Let's go. We'll see what this world gained, and what it lost, and all the rest. Let's find out, together. To other side of this world... To the other side of fiction... Let's find out, together. It's what we could accomplish."
"The story lives on. I'm sure, even now... Even on the other side... It lives on there, as well. And thus, the story lives on. Was this lie able to change something? Was this lie able to change someone? Was this lie...able to change the world? If it was able to change even the smallest thing... ...Then the story isn't over."
As Pre-Killing Game Shuichi:

"I've always been such a huge fan of Danganronpa and...always wanted to be in one... If I were a contestant, I would want to be...an Ultimate Detective. I know there've been a few in the past, and I've always loved those characters... So I would want to be one of them. Ah, but, I don't *have* to be a detective. I'll be anything to be part of the show. And I mean that, anything. I'd do... anything to be a part of Danganronpa. I promise, if I get selected... I will work as hard as I can! I will come up with the best, most gruesome murders, I promise! Everyone will love it! And an Ultimate Detective hasn't been the blackened yet, so I'm sure I can do that! I'm also thinking about...the perfect punishment for an Ultimate Detective..."
List of Appearances
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Trivia
Shuichi's backstory references Shinichi Kudo from Detective Conan, who is also the protagonist and a famous high school detective, and whose parents are a mystery writer and a former movie star living overseas and have a "hands-off" approach to parenting.
Shuichi is implied to be attracted to people of the same gender.
He is fine with accompanying both female and male characters during the Love Suite Events, with him only appearing uncomfortable with untrustworthy individuals. Even when he's afraid of Korekiyo, he still "doesn't deny he's curious". Despite the fact that he doesn't trust Kokichi, he wishes Kokichi would stay after he suddenly starts to leave (and after Kokichi pushed him against a bed), but he quickly smothers the thought. He also agrees to a romantic relationship with K1-B0 during his Love Suite Event.
During his Free Time Events with Kaito, he thinks about how great Kaito is and how "only someone like him could tell him what he needs to hear". He then gets a bit flustered at his own thoughts, feeling that he shouldn't talk about another boy like that. He also gets very flustered during Kaito's Love Suite scene, when he realizes how close he is with Kaito in such a place.
During the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, the other boys occasionally point out how Shuichi is suggesting something that would be "usually said to a girl". When he suggests to take their clothes off with Kaito, Kaito is surprised and slightly weirded out, and says that he should save that for the girls, and then asks if Shuichi has come out of the closet or something without telling him. Rantaro and Kokichi also assume that Shuichi wants to do something sexual with them.
Interestingly, Shuichi's clothes somewhat resemble that of Kiyotaka Ishimaru's early design.
Shuichi's appearance has similarities with the character from Persona 4, Naoto Shirogane. Furthermore, both characters are precocious ‎detectives.
The official English website mistook Shuichi's uncle as his grandfather. They later fixed this error.
Oddly, in the NIS America localization and Steam version of the game, Shuichi's pixel head icon during the Chapter 1 post-trial verdict is hatless, while it does show his hat in the original Japanese PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita versions.
Shuichi's English voice actor, Grant George, also voices Leon Kuwata in Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc.
On Shuichi's birthday in 2017, Kazutaka Kodaka tweeted an "in-character" birthday message to celebrate it.
The tweet translates into this:
Saihara: "Huh? This is... for my birthday? R-really? This many people are congratulating me? Wow, I'm a little bit embarrassed but… thank you! But that's much more than what I can eat by myself, so I guess I should... invite someone? Yeah, I know who to invite!"
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Shuichi the most popular Danganronpa V3 student out of sixteen students in Danganronpa V3.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Shuichi was voted the 2nd most popular student in the electronic poll, and 12th through post cards.
References
↑ Translated List V3 Students' Former High Schools
↑ Twitter Icon Grant George: "#danganronpav3 ANOTHER ENGLISH VOICE REVEALED! Thrilled to confirm I’m the voice of SHUICHI SAIHARA! Follow me for more scoopage & prizes!" (Image of tweet) (10 August 2017)
↑ Saihara's profile.
↑ Shuichi Saihara Artbook Data.
↑ The cast's 'normie' designs.
↑ Saihara's profile on the official website.
↑ Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony • Gameplay Français • PS Vita • PS4
↑ 8.0 8.1 Danganronpa Wiki: Danganronpa V3 Chinese Talents translated by User "St4r dust"
↑ Seiyuu revelation.
↑ Danganronpa V3 demo summary.
↑ Saihara and Akamatsu's conversation.
↑ Translation Masterpost of work by @kaibutsushidousha on Tumblr
↑ Twitter Icon Kazutaka Kodaka: "最原「えっ？ これ…僕の誕生日に？ ほ、本当に？ こんなに祝ってくれる人がいるの？ ちょっと照れるけど…嬉しいよ。 でも、1人じゃ食べ切れないから、誰か誘って….…みようかな。うん、誘ってみよう！」" (Image of tweet) (7 September 2017)
↑ @kaibutsushidousha on Tumblr, Shuichi Saihara's Birthday Tweet (Translation) (September 7th, 2017)
↑ MyNavi Poll
↑ DengekiOnline: 【電撃PS】『ニューダンガンロンパV3』ニンキトウヒョウ（人気投票）企画開催中！ (April 27th, 2017) (Japanese)

Navigation
 [show] v • e
GAME CHARACTERS
Categories:
Maintenance: Fanslation Removal Needed Characters Danganronpa V3 Characters Male Alive Playable Characters Protagonists Game Protagonists Survived Execution Killing Game Survivors
Languages:
Español  Polski  Русский
Recent Wiki Activity
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Monokuma
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Leon Kuwata
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Celestia Ludenberg
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Chiaki Nanami
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago








Search

LogicalShark
1
START A WIKI
 ダンガンロンパ
ダンガンロンパ
1,164
PAGES
ADD
COMMUNITY
FORUM
in:
Maintenance: Fanslation Removal Needed, Characters, Danganronpa V3 Characters, and 3 more
Tenko Chabashira
English
VIEW SOURCE
 
SHARE
Tenko Chabashira	Gallery	Sprites	
FTE Guide Sonia Mini Pixel	This article contains FANSLATIONS and needs to be updated to official translations.	FTE Guide Sonia Mini Pixel


Tenko Chabashira
Illustration Sprite
 Illustration
Name
Aliases & Titles
Talent
Characteristics
Gender
Female Female
Height
165cm (JP)
5'5" (ENG)
Weight
52 kg (115 lbs)
Birth Date
♑ January 9
Chest Size
88 cm (35")
Blood Type
B
Likes
Nunchucks
Dislikes
Men
Killing Game Status
Personal Status
Debuts
Portrayals

"	Keep your chin up and live life facing forward! Survive with me and everyone else!

— Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
"
Tenko Chabashira (茶柱 転子 Chabashira Tenko) is a student in Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles and a participant of the Killing School Semester featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Tenko is titled as the Ultimate Aikido Master (超高校級の「合気道家」chō kōkō kyū no "aikidō-ka" lit. Super High School Level Aikido Master). She is a practitioner of the martial art she created with her master, called "Neo-Aikido".

Contents[hide]
History
Early Life
The Gofer Project
Killing School Semester
Introduction
Attempting the Death Road of Despair
The First and Additional Motive
On The Clock
The First Class Trial
Exploring The Rest Of The Academy
The Motive Videos
Tenko's Jealousy
Gonta's Insect Meet and Greet
The Amazing Himiko's Magic Show
The Second Class Trial
Tenko's Research Lab
Angie's Student Council
The Summoning Ritual
The Third Class Trial
Tenko's Legacy
Creation and Development
Name
Alternate Fates
Appearance
Personality
Talent
Ultimate Aikido Master
In other languages
Relationships
Himiko Yumeno
Angie Yonaga
Gonta Gokuhara
Kirumi Tojo
Korekiyo Shinguji
Kaede Akamatsu
K1-B0
Shuichi Saihara
Kokichi Oma
Free Time
Presents
Quotes
List of Appearances
Trivia
References
Navigation
History
Early Life
Before Joining Danganronpa
Tenko Chabashira was a normal talentless high school girl who participated in the 53rd Season of Danganronpa, a famous worldwide reality show made by Team Danganronpa.

Tenko attended Stone College Prep High School (亜巌大付属高校) during her high school days. However, it is unclear if this memory of her is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it was genuine.

Fabricated Past
After she successfully participated in the 53rd Killing Game, Tenko's memories and past were fabricated by Team Danganronpa as follows:

As a child, Tenko suffered from severe anger tantrums and over-activity to the point that her parents were worried that she might not be able to fit into the society. Not knowing how to handle her, they sent her to live in a temple to help discipline her mind.

However, it seemed that Tenko was trouble even for the priests, so they had to come up with something else. During her mental training at the temple, she called the head priest "Master" and respected him greatly, and thus he declared himself the Master of martial arts. The head priest and Tenko came up with the martial arts of "Neo-Aikido", an unusually aggressive form of Aikido, to channel Tenko's energy into a constant activity. Neo-Aikido helped Tenko and made her notably calmer, though she still remained very aggressive and overactive when compared to the norm. However, she also seemed to take the made-up martial arts a bit too seriously and dreamed of making it a national sport.

The Master also began to use Neo-Aikido as a way to develop Tenko's moral compass. As practitioners of Neo-Aikido, Tenko and her Master even used to wear masks and acted as "heroes of justice", helping people during day and night. This included things like carrying old woman's belongings, helping a child cross the street, catching thieves, punishing cheaters and sexual predators, and even helping girls who had tough break-ups.

In order to control her bad habits, the Master began to claim that various things would weaken her Neo-Aikido spirit and thus should be always avoided, such as being too excited about Christmas or Valentine's Day, eating more than three sweets a day, or failing to keep her environment clean. Because of his anti-romance stance, he also wanted her to not get close with boys and thus told her that interaction with them would weaken her. Tenko believed everything without question and took it all very seriously, and she had very little interaction with boys. She already had a dislike for men, seemingly due to all the sex offenders she had seen, but this turned into hatred as she begun to consider all men enemies that would drain her spirit and prevent her from mastering Neo-Aikido (though, she never realized that this should've logically included her Master as well). She believed that men shouldn't even touch her. Other bad influences from the Master included the belief that ex-boyfriends deserve severe physical punishments, and that you can even use unfair methods such as weapons or attacking before the match starts.

The Gofer Project
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories created for Tenko and the other fifteen students was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Tenko was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participant, Tenko and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Tenko chose to forget about her Ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Tenko and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Tenko and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, the true Mastermind, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, the true Mastermind prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, was actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair, and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In the Mastermind's rush, they accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

While Tenko did remember about the Ultimate Hunt in Chapter 2 and hers and everyone else's funeral in Chapter 3 thanks to the Flashback Lights, she ultimately has no complete recollection of the event, as she was murdered before she actually received a complete memory about The Gofer Project by the Flashback Light in Chapter 5.

Killing School Semester
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Introduction
Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Tenko was among the first fourteen people gathered in the gymnasium before Kaede Akamatsu and Shuichi Saihara arrived. Just like everyone else, Tenko was confused and frightened about their current predicament. Once the Monokuma Kubs arrived in their Exisals, Tenko grew more and more frightened as they threatened to kill them in numerous gruesome ways. However, after realizing that they had gone off script, the Monokuma Kubs revealed themselves from within their Exisals and gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light. Tenko and the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. She also received the talent and title of Ultimate Aikido Master. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Tenko and the others entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester. Students of Fabrication
Tenko was later found in the dining hall by Kaede, the Ultimate Pianist and Shuichi, the Ultimate Detective. Tenko and introduced herself to the duo by letting out passionate "Hyaaaahhhhh!", much to their confusion. Tenko told them that she was yelling in order to "raise her spirit energy" before introducing herself as the Ultimate Aikido Master. When Kaede told her that she looked cute, Tenko became highly embarrassed, making various excuses as to why she isn't cute. Kaede disagreed, and asked Shuichi if he thought she was cute. He complied hesitantly, which instantly caused Tenko's expression to turn sour and explain that she detests being praised by "degenerate males". She then stated that if a "degenerate" ever tried to touch her, she would not hesitate to throw them across the room, with Kaede thinking to herself that that's a far bigger problem than just being uncomfortable around men.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester
Tenko would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokuma Kubs made their announcement. While some of the students were worried, Tenko had immediately taken a liking to Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician, seeming to believe in her real magic act. Tenko asked her what sort of training she does for her magic, but Himiko didn't reply because it was "too tiring". Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs and Monokuma, the Monokuma Kubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game, much to almost everyone's shock and horror. With that, the Killing School Semester had officially begun.

Attempting the Death Road of Despair
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Tenko read the rules on her Monopad. A majority of the group wasn't sure what to do after reading these rules and began to panic and argue. Thanks to Kaede's motivational argument, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Tenko along with everyone else immediately followed Gonta's lead, with a hope of finding a way out.

The Students become exhausted after failing to escape the academy via Despair Death RoadDescending the manhole, Tenko and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Tenko and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi Oma, the Ultimate Supreme Leader, revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Tenko included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Despite the group's failure and her own exhaustion, Tenko didn't seem to blame Kaede, wanting to believe and protect her fellow females. She reluctantly went to go sleep in her assigned dorm room.
The First and Additional Motive
After the first motive and additional motives are presented, the First Blood Perk and the time limit, Tenko like almost everyone else, became increasingly concerned. However, she was determined not to let a killing happen. She also tried getting closer to Himiko, though she didn't seem to treat Tenko as anything more than an annoyance.

During the morning of the next day, Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, tried to convince Himiko to believe in Atua, much to Tenko's annoyance and jealousy. Himiko declined, saying that believing in Atua sounds like "too much of a pain". Tenko ecstatically said that Himiko should believe in Neo Aikido instead, but the magician stated that that was a pain as well.

On The Clock
Gifted Students heading to the game roomOn the final day as the time limit was drawing closer to its end, Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, asked Tenko to join his strategy meeting, thinking that since she was an expert fighter that she would be useful when it came to fighting Monokuma. She agreed, and so her, Kaito, Angie, Himiko, Gonta, Maki Harukawa, the Ultimate Child Caregiver, and Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ???, headed down to the game room in the basement to conduct their strategy meeting. Not long after however, Rantaro excused himself to go to the restroom while actually going to investigate the library, knowing of the secret room thanks to his Survivor Perk Monopad. Tenko and Kaito would also leave the game room and join Kaede and Shuichi in storming the library, only to find the bookcase in the back of the room closing and Rantaro's corpse not far away from it. Tenko's scream alerted the remaining people in the game room and they came rushing in. As everyone pondered what was going on and whether or not the Killing Game had officially begun or ended, the body discovery announcement played and eventually everyone was in the library. Kaede, Tenko, Kaito, and Shuichi running into the library
During the investigation, Tenko didn't search for clues but instead, followed and watched Angie, finding it suspicious that she could remain so cheerful during this life-threatening situation. When she explained this to Kaede and Shuichi, Tenko became annoyed with Shuichi after telling her that everyone needed to work together regardless of gender, warning him not to act high and mighty with her.

The First Class Trial
During the early stages of the Class Trial, Tenko didn't do anything notable or remarkable and simply went along with what everyone said. Later on during the trial, when everyone was split on whether or not to vote Shuichi as the culprit due to his silence about the camera intervals, Tenko was on the side that accused him, wanting to believe in Kaede, but also acknowledging that Shuichi is suspicious, stating that staying quiet for as long as he had is "classic degenerate male behavior".

After Shuichi was cleared of blame by Kaede and he accused her of being the culprit, wanting to carry on her wish, Tenko refused to believe it, saying that there's no way that's possible. Despite her and a couple other student's protests, Kaede was eventually proven to be the culprit. However, after finding out that the Ultimate Pianist only did what she did so that she could save everyone, Tenko didn't hold Kaede accountable at all and still viewed her as a friend.

Protect Akamatsu
Despite no one truly blaming Kaede for what happened, the rules still remained in effect and Monokuma and his Kubs were eager to get on with the punishment, but the students revolted in order to protect Kaede. The Monokuma Kubs brought out their Exisals in order to enforce their rules, but Tenko along with Kaito and Gonta did not waver, determined by the fact that if Kaede was willing to put her life on the line, then so would they. Despite their confidence, Kaede told them to stop and that she had prepared herself. She told everyone to live and escape this place, believing in everyone. Tenko could only reassure Kaede that she would keep her promise along with most of the other students before the Ultimate Pianist was dragged to her execution. Tenko could do nothing but cry, saying that Monokuma is horrible for killing her friend in such a brutal way.

Exploring The Rest Of The Academy
The morning of the next day, Tenko along with everyone else would gather in the dining hall once again and have a normal, but forced the conversation to try and make themselves not think about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. When Shuichi arrived without his hat on in memory of his dear friend, Tenko angrily criticized both Kokichi and Kaito for being insensitive. Afterwards, the Monokuma Kubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that would become unlocked was the pool. Tenko, Shuichi, and K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot, were the first ones to investigate the area. Upon seeing the resort-like pool, Tenko became excited and stated that she had always dreamed of swimming in a pool like a famous celebrity, except for the fact that she didn't know how to swim. Angie eventually told everyone to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight that she and Shuichi had discovered earlier. After everyone had gathered, Monokuma appeared and told everyone that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone, Tenko included, to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

Danganronpa V3 - Everywhere Parasol PresentIn a bonus scene in Chapter 2, Angie, Himiko, Kirumi, Shuichi, and K1-B0 joined Tenko for her "celebrity-like vacation" in the pool area.
The Motive Videos
During that same night, the Monokuma Kubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. The next morning, Tenko joined everyone in the dining hall in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. Despite Ryoma suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. Once Tenko tried to goad Himiko into enjoying a tripe hot pot, wanting to get closer to her, Angie told her that she doesn't get it and that Himiko isn't hungry. Nevertheless, everyone has tripe hot pot for breakfast

Tenko's Jealousy
The next morning, Tenko and everyone else gathered in the dining hall once again, only to notice that Angie and Himko were both praying to Atua, much to the Aikido Master's shock and jealousy. Angie states that Himiko had abandoned reality to speak to Atua. Tenko accused her of brainwashing Himiko, only to correct her, saying that she had undone Himiko's brainwashing. Despite this, Tenko still urged Himiko to get ahold of herself, only for Angie to instill hers and Atua's authority into Himiko further by pulling her into a hug. Angie states that she understands Himiko and that she isn't scared, just sad, that she has no one to confide her anxieties to. She reassured Himiko that she wasn't alone and that a handsome god was watching over her. With that, Himiko didn't seem scared anymore and Angie praised Atua once again, much to Tenko's dismay.

Angie then passes on Atua's "divine message" to everyone else in the dining hall, saying that the academy suffers from the same sins as the outside world and that the only reason everyone is unhappy is because their greed is making them treat each other like adversaries. She proposes that everyone cast aside their greed and live within the academy in a peaceful harmony with divine purpose, turning the academy into "heaven on earth". She states that if they do this, their desire to leave will vanish, and in turn, the killings will also cease. This proposal baffled nearly everyone but Himiko, who stated that Atua's divine messages are never wrong. With Angie's advice, her and Himiko decide to hold a magic show the next morning in order to get everyone to forget about their desire to leave before leaving the dining hall in order to begin the preparations. Because of these actions and everything that would transpire later, Angie would be the only girl that Tenko was not on good terms with.

Gonta's Insect Meet and Greet
Gonta Insect Appreciation ClubDuring that same day, unbeknownst to Tenko, Gonta, thanks to Kokichi's lies, believed that everyone hated bugs and began kidnapping various students into his Research Lab in order to get them to like bugs. In reality, Kokichi simply wanted to get everyone to watch their motive videos in order make the Killing Game "more interesting". Tenko would be among the first students that Gonta detained, saying that not even she was a match for his power. Not long after, Shuichi, Himiko, and Angie were also brought into Gonta's Research Lab, and the Insect Meet and Greet began. Everyone panicked as insects began to buzz about and wreck havoc. Tenko would attempt to save Himiko as she was being buried alive by the insects. In order to finally end this absurdity, K1-B0 used his recording function in order to convince Gonta that Kokichi had tricked him, much to the former's anger. With that, Tenko and everyone else barring Gonta and Kokichi took back their motive videos before immediately leaving Gonta's lab, then heading to bed.
The Amazing Himiko's Magic Show
Magic show gone wrong
The very next morning, Tenko attended Angie and Himiko's magic show along with everyone else from Gonta's Insect Meet and Great, bar Kokichi. Angie thanked Atua for being with them today, much to Tenko's chagrin, who stated that she should be thanking them first for even showing up. Ignoring Tenko's comment, Angie explained the details of Himiko's trick before the Ultimate Magician jumped into the tank, having only a single minute to escape the water tank before the tank would fill with piranha's. Angie closed the curtains, but everyone grew increasingly worried as the timer continued to count down and Himiko had yet to come out. Gonta couldn't take it anymore and stormed the stage, wanting to save Himiko before the piranhas would fill the tank, much to Angie's disappointment. Once the timer ran out, the piranha's dropped into the tank along with some other large object, though Himiko had yet to come out of the tank. Tenko begged Angie to open the curtains, a plea that she promptly responded to by revealing the tank, however, no one was prepared for what they were about to see. Ryoma's lifeless, handcuffed body drifted within the tank, only having a couple seconds before the piranha's stripped the flesh from his bone, leaving nothing more than a skeleton, the handcuff's, and his belongings behind. With that, the second investigation had begun.

Tenko and Gonta throwing K1-B0 to break the water tank After the body discovery announcement played, the remaining students gathered in the gym. Kokichi playfully urged Gonta to throw K1-B0 against the tank because it would take too long to drain by hand. Tenko helped Gonta use the Ultimate Robot like a battering ram and shattered the tank. During the investigation itself, Tenko was extremely protective over Himiko and threatened anybody that would try to "bully" Himiko by asking her the details of her magic trick, constantly claiming that it wasn't a trick, but real magic.
The Second Class Trial
As the Class Trial began, Angie was quick to suspect Himiko despite how close they had supposedly become. This outraged Tenko greatly, stating that if they were really friends that Angie should believe in Himiko. Angie countered this and stated that she's simply telling them what Atua is telling her and that they should be thankful lest he pours his holy wrath upon them all. Despite Himiko's commitment to her magic act, and everyone continuing to suspect her, Tenko proudly declared that no matter what, she would continue believing in Himiko until she took her final breath. This act of faith seemed to put Tenko and Himiko on somewhat good terms.

Later, when everyone was wondering just when Ryoma could have been killed after hearing Maki's testimony, Tenko was on the side saying that he was killed during nighttime. As the trial progressed, Shuichi was able to pin Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, as the culprit of Ryoma's murder, much to Tenko's shock after Kirumi had taken care of everyone so well. After all the evidence was pinned on Kirumi and she admitted to her crime, Tenko cried once again, asking why did it have to be her. The Ultimate Maid wasn't sure how to respond to everyone asking her why she killed Ryoma, and so the Monokuma Kubs showed everyone her motive video, revealing that she was the de facto prime minister of all Japan and that her most important person was every citizen of the country. Kirumi refused to give up on life and made a mad, undignified run for it, but was executed nonetheless. Tenko was shocked at the horrifying way Kirumi was murdered, stating that they all had to stop the killings no matter what before leaving the trial grounds along with everyone.

Tenko's Research Lab
The next morning, at Kokichi's request after unveiling Maki's true talent the night prior, Tenko along with everyone else barring Maki paid a visit to the "Ultimate Child Caregiver's Research Lab" only to discover various weapons all throughout the lab, proving that Maki was, in fact, the Ultimate Assassin, not a child caregiver. Tenko said that she would help Gonta detain Maki if she became a threat to the group, but Shuichi countered by saying that it wasn't necessary to go that far as she hasn't tried to kill anybody. Tenko ignored Shuichi and proudly declared that a sneak attack was the way to go, which earned some confusion from Tsumugi Shirogane, the Ultimate Cosplayer, asking if that was what an Aikido Master should be saying. After the Monokuma Kubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy.

Chabashira's training with Saihara One of the places that became unlocked was Tenko's Research Lab in the courtyard. Tenko, Himiko, and Shuichi were the first to explore it, with Tenko being increasingly ecstatic to finally have her own lab claiming that no school is complete without a dojo. She announced that sparing here would be very enjoyable before grabbing Shuichi and throwing him down on the tatami mat hard. While he obviously didn't appreciate the gesture, Tenko was able to determine that Shuichi lacked self-esteem and as a result, lacked strength. She stated that while he had more confidence in himself than before, he still questioned himself. She was seemingly able to tell when her sparring partner is burdened by doubt, as she hit every nail on the head. Tenko then asked Himiko if she wanted to combine her magic with her own Neo Aikido. Himiko didn't even get a chance to full reply before being thrown down on the tatami mat hard, just like Tenko did to Shuichi. From doing so, Tenko determined that Himiko didn't show her emotions all the time because she was too shy and claimed that it was a waste as she claimed that Himiko had "the richest heart of all". She recomended Himiko to try Neo Akido, as it would help her with her shyness, but she was too irritated with Tenko to care about what she was saying and instead threatened to turn her into a toad with her magic. Chabashira's training with Yumeno
Later on, Tenko would gather with everyone else in the dining hall in order to inspect the new Flashback Light that Shuichi found. Upon using it, everyone remembered what seemed to be their own funeral, much to the student's confusion. Kaito reassured everyone that there's no way the funeral could be real considering they were all still here and alive. His small speech seemed to work, as everyone perked back up, enjoyed a small meal, then headed back to their dorms.

Angie's Student Council
Tenko gathered with everyone in the gymnasium the very next morning at the Monokuma Kubs request. The participants were presented with the third motive, the Necronomicon, and were told that they would be able to bring back someone who had died already as a transfer student. This motive baffled the students, saying that there's no way the dead could come back to life. However, Angie seemed to embrace the motive, saying the "corpses" so far may have just been very accurate imitations to make the real people seem dead. Some of the students argued that there's no way that's possible, but Gonta said that more letters were added to the rock in the courtyard, deducing that perhaps the four people who had died are actually alive and wrote that message. Angie praised Gonta and, like Himiko before him, pulled him into a hug. She instilled hers and Atua's authority into him by reassuring him that he's not alone and that Atua is like a gentle grandmother that always keeps him safe, effectively playing off of Gonta's desire for a motherly figure.

The Ultimate Academy Student Council reformed
Angie then said that Gonta should join the Student Council, wanting to make Gonta feel needed. Tsumugi, and Himiko both requited this feeling. As a result, the Ultimate Entomologist did not hesitate for even a second if it meant he could be useful to everyone and joined Angie's group. Shuichi however, was confused as to what Angie meant by "student council", but K1-B0 replied by saying that Angie summoned himself, Himiko, Tenko, and Tsumugi last night in order to discuss how to eradicate the Killing Game. As a result, this group of students ended up forming the "Ultimate Academy Student Council" with Angie as their president. The "brainwashed" members listen to Angie completely and without question, stating that her will is Atua's will and as a result, she cannot be wrong. In reality, Angie was simply trying to take control of everybody and make them dependent on Atua. Angie took the Necronomicon and told everyone else to "leave it to the student council".

In reality, Tenko was never brainwashed by Angie. She simply pretended to be so that she could look after Himiko and keep her safe, as Tenko did not trust the Ultimate Artist. Despite this, Tenko continued to go along with the student council and was able to see that Angie trying to unify the group with her student council only ended up causing discord between the student council and the non-student council members, such as during that same night when the student council ridiculed Maki for being out at nighttime. The very next morning, the two split parties came into conflict yet again after finding out that the student council had blocked off the manhole in the boiler room with a large rock. Angie even goes as far as to destroy a Flashback Light from the Monokuma Kubs, wanting to quell any desire to leave no matter the cost.

The Summoning Ritual
Despite their extreme methods, Angie's student council had no malicious intent for the group as a whole, only wishing to stop another murder from happening by whatever means necessary. Despite this, it was obvious that Angie was going too far. That same night, when Maki and Shuichi met up to train, Tenko finally realized just how dangerous Angie had become and begged the duo to join her in stopping Angie from going through with the ritual. They complied and headed up to the Ultimate Artist's Research Lab, only to find that Angie had made wax effigies of the past four victims in preparations for the ritual within the Necronomicon. Tenko, Shuichi, and Maki tried to convince Angie, saying that there's no way any of them could still be alive and that no matter how hard you fake a death, it is impossible to fake a soul grasping and struggling for life. Angie seemed to comply considering the Ultimate Assassin, who specialized in murder, agreed with Shuichi on this. But this only made her think that the ritual must actually be able to bring the dead back to life. As a result, they ended up failing to convince Angie to not go through with the ritual, and the trio begrudgingly left her lab, only to run into Himiko outside. As it turns out, Angie already knew that Tenko had betrayed the student council, but seemingly didn't hold it against her. Tenko urged Himiko to get a hold of herself one last time, saying that if she couldn't even see that she had been brainwashed that she wasn't a real mage at all, which seemed to greatly irritate Himiko. Tenko didn't mind however and told her to get mad and express herself, but Shuichi stopped her. Tenko then realized what she had just said to Himiko and apologized for yelling at her.

Failing to convince Angie, Tenko, Shuichi, and Maki returned to the dorms, and the Ultimate Aikido Master couldn't believe that she said all those horrible things to her. She feared that Himiko would never want to talk to her again now, though both Shuichi and Maki felt that she was exaggerating. Tenko bid the duo a goodnight before returning to her own dorm room.

The next morning, Tenko, Shuichi, and Maki headed to Angie's lab to try and convince her once again. They discovered Himiko outside of her lab, claiming that Angie wouldn't come out no matter how many times she knocked on the door. This worried Shuichi greatly, but Kokichi overheard the situation and used his lock-picking skills to break into Angie's lab. Shuichi's worries are confirmed as Angie's corpse lies in the center of the four wax effigies in a pool of her own blood.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 3 Body Discovery (1)
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 3 Body Discovery (1)

Everyone gathers in Angie's research lab following the body discovery announcement. All the student council members mourn her passing, wondering just how and why she was killed. Tenko meanwhile, was silent. She was never particularly fond of her, but she didn't wish death upon her. Korekiyo suggests that they perform a seance to commune with Angie's spirit, a suggestion that Tenko, Himiko, Kokichi, and K1-B0 agreed to, completely unaware that the Ultimate Anthropologist had sinister ulterior motives.

Spirit Summoning Ritual Preparation (2)
Shuichi would later replace K1-B0 for the seance due to the others wondering if a robot would really work for it, much to the Ultimate Robot's dismay. Korekiyo then says that they would need a spirit medium and that it would work best with a girl. Himiko offered to do it before Tenko offered instead, saying that Himiko wouldn't be able to say goodbye to Angie if she was the medium. Himiko was silent at this, but Tenko said one last thing before becoming the medium, that she should keep her chin up and live life facing forward and survive with everyone else. She tried to reassure Himiko that expressing her feelings is perfectly natural and that she would feel better if she did. With that, Himiko and Tenko seemed to be on good terms once again, neither aware that these would be Tenko's last words to Himiko due to not knowing the true nature of the seance.

Tenko lies in a position similar to child's pose in the center of a circle of salt inscribed with magical symbols. A cage, cloth, and statue are placed on top of her to complete the ritual. Unbeknownst to Tenko, Korekiyo hid a kama, a traditional Japanese weapon similar to a sickle, under the cloth covering the cage that would later be responsible for her death. The students then turn off the lights in the room and sing together as Tenko prays and attempts to commune with Angie's spirit. However, Korekiyo, using the magic circle to find his way to the loose floorboard he had prepared the night prior, stomps on it during the ritual, triggering a seesaw effect and sending Tenko flying off the ground. Her neck is pierced by the kama above the cage, killing her right before everyone's eyes while they were unaware of it. Korekiyo then makes his way back to his corner, acting as if nothing had happened, and finishing the song before asking if the "caged child" was Angie Yonaga. When no answer was given, everyone turned the lights back on in confusion and took away the cage, cloth, and statue, only to find Tenko lying in a pool of her own blood. Himiko, completely shocked, ran over to her and threw the cage off of her, screaming Tenko's name, but it was too late as she had already been killed. Himiko is far too shocked to say anything and everyone else aside from Korekiyo is dumbfounded as the second body discovery announcement plays.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 3 Body Discovery (2)
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 3 Body Discovery (2)

The Third Class Trial
Himiko was increasingly more agitated during this trial that she had been in any of the previous trials due to losing two people who considered her a friend and never being able to properly requite those feelings to Tenko. When Kokichi stated that Tenko's death was meaningless and that they had to solve the mystery behind Angie's murder, Himiko snapped at him for making light of her "friend's" death. Kaito reassured Himiko that they would uncover Tenko's death and that he won't let anyone say that her death didn't matter.

As they continued to discuss the cause of Tenko's death, Maki speculated that she could have killed herself, but Himiko denied it, choosing to believe in Tenko's final words. Shuichi decided to believe in Tenko as well and lied by saying that she had died instantly, giving her no time to get rid of the weapon used to kill her, a lie that Maki acknowledged. The group continued to discuss Tenko's murder until eventually, Shuichi was able to pin Korekiyo as her killer. After some arguing, Korekiyo acknowledges the claim, saying that Tenko's death ultimately didn't matter because the true culprit that they needed to search for was the culprit behind Angie's murder, much to Himiko's annoyance. However, Korekiyo was unaware that the clues left behind in Angie's murder, the piece of bloody duct tape and the dried blood on the loose floorboard in the seance room would be key pieces of evidence linking both murders together and as a result, pinning him as the culprit of both murders, not just Tenko's.

Following the trial's conclusion, Korekiyo revealed himself to be a serial killer whose goal was to grant his deceased sister one-hundred female friends in the afterlife and that he was very close to that number. He claimed that every girl in the school barring Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor, and Maki had the potential to become "friends" for his sister. Korekiyo stated that Tenko's earnest and pure heart made her the perfect candidate to send to his sister and wondered how Himiko couldn't have liked her. Himiko however, could not accept this explanation, angrily asking why Tenko and Angie had to die for something so unfair. Korekiyo replied that there is no such thing as a death that can be accepted and wondered how they all would live a life that faced death before being dragged to his execution.

Tenko's Legacy
Himiko crying post the third trial Afterwards, Himiko desperately tried to keep it together, but with Kokichi's persuasion, and remembering Tenko's last words to her, finally broke down in tears, crying out that she missed both Angie and Tenko but couldn't go to where they were yet. In the end, even though Tenko was no longer with her, Himiko still considered her a dear friend and along with Angie, would remain on her mind throughout the entirety of the Killing Game. 
Danganronpa V3 - Dark Belt Present
Danganronpa V3 - Dark Belt Present

In a bonus event in Chapter 4, Himiko was trying to learn on how to "live life facing forward" just like how Tenko advised her before she met her demise. Later, Shuichi and Gonta helped her to train together in Tenko's Research Lab, and Shuichi was glad that Himiko became more cheerful than she used to, saying that Tenko's feelings finally reached her.
Creation and Development
Name
Her first name kanji 転子 tenko , means "rolling child". This is a reference to her talent, as Aikido includes rolling in its techniques. Her last name kanji, 茶柱 Chabashira (lit. "tea pillar"), is a figurative term referring to a how, when drinking green tea made with chopped tea stalks (see Kukicha), a few thin stems can go through the kettle into the drinker's cup and float around near the surface of the liquid. Chabashira specifically is when one such stalk ends up floating completely upright - an uncommon occurrence that is considered a lucky omen.

Alternate Fates
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Tenko was inside the cafeteria along with Himiko Yumeno and Kaito Momota. She introduced herself to Kaede Akamatsu, who thinks that Tenko is cute, automatically making her blush and feeling embarrassed. However, when Kaede asked confirmation from Makoto Naegi, Tenko doesn't need his answer, showing her dislike towards men.

During the incident of Yasuhiro Hagakure's murder, Himiko was having a tea with Tenko in the cafeteria. She gives her the lecture about the difference between magic and witchcraft and stated that during that time there were always only two of them. However, Tenko noticed a male entered the kitchen but didn't have time to put a closer attention since Himiko's lecture intensified and doesn't let her to have a free time until the body discovery announcement was broadcasted by Monokuma.

Appearance
Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Tenko Chabashira
Tenko has a fair skin tone, warm green eyes and long dark-brown hair put into two long, loose braids. Her hair is tied by long white ribbons, a large green pinwheel bow with a white floral pattern and she also wears a purple, alice headband with a star-shaped adornment on the left side of her head. A mole is located right under her mouth.

Her uniform is otherwise just a regular double-breasted, blue sailor uniform, but it's considered rare for 2 layers of frills. It is described as "fashion disaster that shows off the light-heartedness of a sportsy girl mixed with the harmonious Japanese essence" by Kazutaka Kodaka, and it is stated that Tenko added the frills by her own hand to make the design more attractive to girls. She also wears waraji, believing the stereotype that all martial artists wear them. She wears white, knee-high socks as well. She has a beauty mark under the left side of her lip and she has a pink choker with a yellow bell.

Tenko's body is quite fit and has notable abs due to her intense Neo Aikido training and superhero activities by night, and of course only girls are allowed to touch it.

Personality
Tenko is an incredibly noisy and generally cheerful person. She wears her emotions on her sleeve and has the habit of yelling out in a loud voice to show her fighting spirit.She suffers from overactivity and anger issues and directs her energy into her Neo Aikido. Even still, she claims that she is much calmer when compared to her childhood. She has also described herself as being "not very good at thinking" and appears quite gullible and very impulsive, using her emotions over logic. She refers to herself in the third person in the Japanese version.

As a Neo Aikido practitioner, Tenko takes pride in facing the opponent from the front, and she courageously tries to confront the "Exisal" killing machines. Indeed, despite being an Aikido practitioner, Tenko can be very aggressive and quickly resorts to violence, insisting that it's self-defense.She takes pride in inventing the Neo Aikido along with her Master and throughout the game, she will constantly threaten guys or Monokuma with her deadly Neo Aikido techniques, saying that it is very powerful. However, she admits that compared to Gonta Gokuhara's incredible power, she had no match for him. She has also admitted that she actually has very low tolerance to pain and is terrified of the idea of torture. She also occasionally has a panicky side in other situations, as she seems to panic in a Class Trial if she is suspected to be the culprit, and overall tends to react strongly in humorous ways. In the demo version, when Kaede talks to her after the murder, she immediately panics as she assumes she is being suspected.

Due to past experiences and her Master's irresponsible teachings and anti-romance stance, she feels a strong hatred towards boys, to the point of referring to them as "awful boys" (lit. replacing part of the normal word for boys with the kanji for death) and openly stating all men should perish. She believes that interaction with boys will drain her Neo-Aikido spirit, and thus considers them her enemies. Due to her misandristic outlook, she makes up stories about how bad boys are in her head, such as that boys are much more likely to do negative and deceiving things than girls, like always being the first to lie and always shifting the blame right away. She dislikes boys so much that even the nice things they do can cause her to react very negatively. For example, she doesn't like boys praising her. If a boy compliments her looks, her expression will die in an instant. She also never allows a boy to touch her, throwing him reflexively if they even attempt to try. Her dislike of boys is portrayed as a very emotional and irrational opinion, as there are moments when a boy acts sensible and Tenko feels like agreeing with them, but then refuses solely because they are a boy. However, since there isn't much any actual reasoning behind her dislike for men, there are also moments when she seems to completely forget her hatred for a moment and she is shown to comfort boys such as Shuichi during moments of distress, doing other acts of kindness for them, and at rare moments, being able to admit that a boy can be a good person. Despite her hatred of men, she is capable of respecting them, like Gonta who is very sincere and deeply cares about his classmates, though she is always surprised and confused by genuinely good boys. Tenko has also implied that she hasn't spent much time with boys in the past, likely because of her master.

Contrasting her hatred towards boys, Tenko likes other girls much more. This also includes trans girls who have had gender reassignment surgery, supported by the fact she wants to shake Shuichi's hand but begs him to have gender reassignment surgery so she is able to do so.During dangerous situations, she recklessly rushes to protect all the girls, and only them. She also gets very shy and humorously humble if a girl compliments her looks, blushing strongly and insisting that her looks definitely aren't good, and gives excuses such as her face getting all wrinkled every time she drinks from a straw and her eyelids turning inside out whenever she washes her face with a towel. While often assumed to be very tomboyish due to her love for martial arts, she is in fact quite feminine, possessing great love for idols, fashion and cute things. She apparently tries to be fashionable and more attractive to girls with some of her clothing, but she is instead described as a "fashion disaster".She appears attracted to girls, often having dreams about idols, and dreaming of becoming a "pampered celebrity" herself. With her love for small and cute things, Himiko is her obvious favorite, and she often admires, wishes to accompany and fusses over her, which annoys the magician. Even though she repeatedly accuses boys of being perverted, she herself is occasionally shown to be a bit perverted while thinking about Himiko, though she claims that her feelings for her are only pure and nothing like the way males think. However, Tenko is also shown to act embarrassed and panicky if Himiko points out her possible attraction to girls, and she seems to be shy about telling Himiko about it.

As she is so impulsive and reckless, Tenko occasionally doesn't notice other people's feelings and does what she wants instead. However, seemingly as a part of her Neo Aikido skills, she has a unique ability to read the emotions of those she throws. Whenever she does this, she correctly reads the other person's feelings and can give them right kind of advice as a result. Even when she doesn't throw others, she is occasionally shown to have a calmer moment when she is able to console and guide others, and show sympathy even towards boys. Notably, she is shown to get increasingly worried about Himiko, who keeps her real emotions hidden inside and even begins to ignore reality after Angie's "brainwashing". As the complete opposite of that, Tenko believes that expressing your feelings is completely natural and you shouldn't feel ashamed of them, whether it's crying, laughing or anger. She is disturbed by Angie, who uses her faith as means to escape reality and doesn't confront her true feelings.

Despite her loud and aggressive nature, she is polite to everyone, even boys, referring them with the formal suffix "-san" (original Japanese release only). Her politeness is so powerful that it surpasses her hatred toward boys. She also accepts boys to be practitioners of Neo-Aikido out of necessity, though she isn't fond of the idea and just considers them "tolerable". However, after spending time with Shuichi, she begins to believe that Neo-Aikido can in a way "purify" degenerate males and make them good people like her master. In her Love Suite event, it's shown that she can even develop feelings for a boy if they are a fellow Neo-Aikido practitioner, though it's also indicated that this ideal person must also be very skilled in Neo-Aikido, noble and not the type who constantly thinks about sex. She considers any Neo-Aikido practitioners her comrades with a bond thicker than blood, and is also very loyal to anyone she considers her best friend or a role model. This is seen in the way she risked her life in order to prevent Kaede Akamatsu from being executed, and her relationship with Himiko.

Talent
Ultimate Aikido Master
Tenko's talent as the Ultimate Aikido Master is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Tenko is a talented Aikido practitioner in the past.

Tenko and her master developed a new style of Aikido named the Neo-Aikido. Different from the original teaching of Aikido, the Neo-Aikido that Tenko invented is more aggressive and has many offensive techniques. Tenko even believes that the only true way of training for Neo-Aikido is actual battle. However, in reality, Neo-Aikido was only invented in order to control Tenko's over-activity and anger issues when she was a child.

According to Nekomaru, despite her talent, she lacks refinement and does whatever she wants with her body. She possesses many other traits that seem to indicate she isn't a very fitting martial arts practitioner, like impulsiveness, low tolerance for pain and disregard for fair rules. This could be because it may not be her real skill.

In other languages
Tenko's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Aikido Master
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「合気道家」	Super High School Level Aikido Master
Français Aïkidoka Ultime	Ultimate Aikido Practitioner
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的合氣道家	Super High School Level Aikido Master
中文 超高中级的合气道家	Super High School Level Aikido Master
Relationships
Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles:
Himiko Yumeno
Tenko is shown to be very interested in Himiko since the first chapter. She constantly tries to get Himiko's attention and spend time with her, sometimes quite obviously trying to flirt with her, like telling her she can rest her head on her lap or offering to give her a massage. She describes Himiko as "small and cute", and occasionally even drools whenever she seems to think about something suggestive concerning Himiko.

Himiko tends to get overwhelmed by this and is often annoyed by Tenko, telling her to stop and wishing to be left alone. Despite this, Tenko persistently admires Himiko and promises to always be on her side whenever, and wherever. Notably, she is the only other student who seems to genuinely believe in Himiko's magic and just like her she keeps insisting that she is a real mage instead of a magician. Tenko also often attempts to convince Himiko to take up Neo Aikido, but she always declines, claiming to be too lazy.

Tenko is very protective of Himiko and was usually the one to save her from incidents, like when she was attacked by bugs. In Chapter 2, she also tried to convince Himiko not to perform her dangerous trick. During the second trial, when Angie turned against Himiko, Tenko protected her from all the suspicion towards her, saying that she will believe in Himiko no matter what and doesn't think she is a person capable of taking the others' lives. Tenko is also very protective of Himiko and was usually the one to save her from incidents, like when she was attacked by bugs. In Chapter 2, she also tried to convince Himiko not to perform her dangerous trick. During the second trial, when Angie turned against Himiko, Tenko protected her from all the suspicion towards her, saying that she will believe in Himiko no matter what and doesn't think she is a person capable of taking the others' lives. Thanks to this act, Himiko began to warm up to Tenko a little bit, as she later joins Tenko in her activities in the dojo. Tenko throws her, which allows her to read Himiko's emotions and give her advice. Though, Himiko gets angry due to being thrown and threatens to turn Tenko into an ugly frog.

During the bonus event in Chapter 3, when the girls are in the pool's locker room and Himiko is very self-conscious about her small chest, Tenko gives her a big self-esteem boost by stating that beauty matters more than size and assures her that she is well-shaped.

Tenko later becomes jealous and worried when Himiko decides to follow Angie's footsteps in worshipping her "handsome" God. She asks Himiko if she's into handsome types and why she doesn't go for Tenko instead. Himiko then asks Tenko if she swings that way, slightly shocking Tenko who then turns embarrassed and nervously tries to explain it's not like that. In Chapter 3, Tenko even joined the Student Council led by Angie only so she could be close with Himiko and protect her. However, they get into an argument after Tenko outrightly tries to ask Himiko to leave the council, with Tenko even telling her she isn't a real mage for being so easily persuaded by Angie. Himiko refuses as she uses the council to cope with the killing game situation, though it also causes her to shut in her feelings. However, the argument notably affects Himiko, and Tenko, in turn, feels very guilty for yelling at Himiko and decides to apologize.

During the beginning of a seance, Tenko fulfilled her role as a protector for Himiko, as she was the one who told Himiko to stay back and voluntarily made herself as the medium, ultimately saving Himiko's life due to Korekiyo's trap and ending her own in Chapter 3. Just before her death, she gave Himiko advice about being open about her emotions, and the two made up with Himiko seemingly developing a much more positive view of Tenko than before. When Tenko is murdered, Himiko has a breakdown and she tries to act according to Tenko's example in the future, causing her to develop as a person. Her development is also helped by Kokichi's harsh words during the trial, as he calls her out for her hypocritical behavior, as she didn't show any care towards Tenko before her death. Himiko feels guilty because of this, wishing she could have thanked Tenko and overall be nicer towards her.

During her second Free Time Event with Kaede, Tenko is directly confirmed to have romantic feelings for Himiko and attraction towards magic-users and idols in general, apparently having a tendency to dream about them. She shyly explains she doesn't feel guilty about it or anything but asks Kaede not to tell Himiko about it. However, Kaede fails to understand what she even means by being attracted to Himiko.

During the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, when Shuichi talks to Tenko in order to spend time with her, she repeatedly mutters Himiko's name while blushing and wonders why she is so cute. She then calls her perfect and her ideal girl, and she and Shuichi then spend time talking about how cute Himiko is. Tenko has also referred to Himiko as her soulmate and said that they will be like an "old married couple" after getting past their argument.

Angie Yonaga
Tenko has a strange relationship with Angie since the start and Angie is the only girl she isn't that fond of. Tenko who doesn't believe in God's help sees Angie as a weird person, as she is always happy during the killing game knowing that God is on her side. When Angie answers Himiko's questions about Atua, Tenko is immediately suspicious of brainwashing.

Tenko later begins to dislike Angie and becomes jealous when Himiko decides to follow Angie's footsteps in worshipping her "handsome" God. In Chapter 3, Tenko even joined the Student Council led by Angie only so she could be close with Himiko. She betrayed Angie and the Student Council in the end when she guided Shuichi and Maki to the Student Council's exclusive study research.

However, Tenko was devastated to find Angie dead and tried to resurrect Angie with the others by performing a ritual to reveal the killer. However, she failed when she got killed by Korekiyo.

Gonta Gokuhara
Despite Tenko's hatred toward boys, she often has the same way of thinking with Gonta as both of them always wanted to protect their friends from dangers. While Tenko openly declared that she will only protect girls, Gonta volunteered himself as the boys' protector.

Tenko wondered how different Gonta is from any generic boys, for example, Gonta cries easily whenever one of his friends is dead and he wasn't able to protect them. Tenko, who also follows him to cry asked him why a man like him was able to cry so easily.

Kirumi Tojo
Tenko treats Kirumi as a friend and seems to trust her as well because of her talent. Tenko felt relaxed when Kirumi gave Tenko a massage on her back and took quite care of her which Tenko felt pleased. However, Tenko also tends to be more demanding of Kirumi than other students, giving her complicated requests such as a tripe hot pot for breakfast and asking for her help with a celebrity-style vacation. At first, Tenko didn't believe at Shuichi at first when he suspected Kirumi as the killer but accepted it then. She was one of the people who encouraged Kirumi to run away from her execution.

Korekiyo Shinguji
Tenko refers to Korekiyo as a weird creep and doesn't like it whenever he tries to speak in a creepy way because of her hatred towards males.

Even though she hates males so much, Korekiyo thought that Tenko is fit to become his older sister's "friend" in the afterlife. He was touched by her willingness to protect Himiko by joining Angie's Student Council and later offering to be part of the ritual in Himiko's place.

It's also possible that with her wariness towards men, Korekiyo believed she would keep other men away from his sister.

Kaede Akamatsu
Kaede has a tendency to compliment Tenko's looks, surprising her and causing her to blush. Due to her prejudice against boys, Tenko warns Kaede about Shuichi, even though there is no real reason for it.

When asked by Kaede why she adores Himiko so much, Tenko blushes heavily, and confesses to the pianist that she admires performers. She tells Kaede of her dream to be a cute magical girl, but says she can't do magic, and she's not cute. Kaede, of course, tells Tenko she thinks she's cute, which flusters Tenko further. Kaede proceeds to compliment her smile, passion and body, which Tenko either refuses, or blushes at.

Nonetheless, Tenko seems to really like Kaede, and is heavily protective of her during the first trial.

Tenko doesn't believe that Kaede is the one who killed Rantaro Amami in the first case, even go far in risked her own life to prevent her from being executed along with Kaito and Gonta. After Kaede requested her and the others to stop, she witnessed the execution and started crying afterward.

K1-B0
At first, Tenko appears to consider K1-B0 a degenerate male, but later asks him whether he is a boy or a girl. With him being neither a boy or a girl, Tenko considers K1-B0 "barely passable", not treating him as harshly as boys, but neither being as nice towards him as she is towards girls. K1-B0 is unsure whether or not this should be considered robophobia.

Tenko later asks him to join her, Himiko and Angie to relax and be pretense celebrities while being pampered by Kirumi. However, K1-B0 doesn't really understand how it works, especially the parasol which doesn't really seem to have any actual purpose. Tenko then a bit meanly answers him that a robot like him wouldn't understand what it means to feel like a celebrity.

Shuichi Saihara
Tenko is extremely defensive of every girl that Shuichi comes near in the beginning. She even tells Kaede to watch out, since she thinks Shuichi must be spending time with her just to harass her. Tenko believes that every boy has perverted fantasies running through their heads, including Shuichi. Even going far as to say his timid and quiet nature is probably a coverup for how dangerous he really is.

Tenko is unsurprisingly harsh to Shuichi at the start, being a "typical degenerate male." Although she's able to stand his presence, Tenko makes numerous attempts to intimidate Shuichi into going away, such as growling and hissing. This only confuses him, and she gets angry that he won't go away, and accuses him of only hanging around her so he could get rid of her, "so [he] can sexually harass the other girls."

She eventually gets so worked up that when Shuichi attempts to calm her down, she shrieks and flips him because he touched her. She only continues to flip him a few more times until he blacks out.

It is implied she does, however, feel guilty for hurting people severely, male or not, since she begrudgingly carried Shuichi back to his room after he blacked out.

In her second Free Time Event, she does apologize for making Shuichi black out, but accuses him of having a fetish for being thrown around since he comes back to talk with her. Tenko insists she's as calm as calm can be, and tells Shuichi of her training rules, like how touching boys will have her never master Aikido, which he's shocked by.

Even if Tenko is cold to him for being a boy, she does gradually manage to trust him more often, telling him that Neo Aikido would accept him for being a male, and she has a semblance of care for the detective. After flipping him, she recognizes that he doesn't have a lot of confidence, knowing he doubts himself a lot. She knows he lacks self-esteem, so he doubts his true strength. She tells him Neo-Aikido is good for lifting doubt, before proceeding to flip Himiko as well.

Shuichi recognizes how gullible Tenko can be, and is concerned about her because of that. He's even the one who points out Tenko's master is a male as well, which manages to blow her mind. He notices how low her spirit is because of this revelation, and wonders if she'll be okay.

Tenko thanks Shuichi for helping her realize the truth, and confesses she's grown to trust him to a larger extent nearly on par as she does with her master. She tells him that even if he's a boy, she sees he's a good person... and proceeds to beg Shuichi to stop being a boy so she could shake his hand, which he vehemently refuses to do so.

Whether it be because she spotted Maki with him or not, Tenko also seems to rely on Shuichi enough to ask him and Maki to help her convince Angie to stop the ritual.

During the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, at the Love Suite, Tenko referred to Shuichi as her brother due to him being able to best her in a battle with his strength. She chooses to see him as more than a simple blood relative due to him taking the path of Neo Aikido along with her. She organized the mock battle and bet so that whoever lost would be at the mercy of the others command, allowing them to do what they wanted. She plucked up the courage to state the reason why she made such a bet was because she liked Shuichi, revealing her feelings for him and wishing to engage in a relationship. She stated that the offer still stood for him to do whatever he wanted with her if he felt like it.

Kokichi Oma
Unsurprisingly, Tenko strongly dislikes Kokichi, who has many traits she considers typical "degenerate male" behavior, most notably lying, and tends to refer to him as a "little degenerate" in a mocking manner. Kokichi does not seem to interact with Tenko much. This is possibly intentional from his part, since Tenko is very quick to violence and has threatened him multiple times, which is something Kokichi often wishes to avoid. Furthermore, Tenko isn't very smart, which is a trait Kokichi isn't very interested in if he doesn't find it useful.

Tenko especially dislikes Kokichi due to his habit of bullying Himiko. Before the trial in Chapter 2, she seems to assume that Kokichi might like Himiko, since she believes in the old belief that boys tease the girls they like. Kokichi answers with a slightly surprised and innocent "huh!? how'd you know?!", and then appears relaxed as he tells her they should focus on the class trial and talk about it later. Like in most situations, it's unclear to the others how serious he was, but he was likely attempting to mess with Tenko and Himiko's feelings.

During the bonus mode Love Across the Universe, Kokichi tries to prank Shuichi a few times—when Shuichi brings up something suggestive in a few situations, Kokichi claims that he should ask Tenko since she is actually just being a tsundere and would be a good stripper, which would obviously end very badly for Shuichi.

Free Time
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Tenko Chabashira, Hotel Kumasutra#Tenko Chabashira
Presents
Tenko Pixel Head Icon
Tenko Chabashira
Loves:	023. Workout Clothes, 056. Indigo Hakama, 073. 3-Hit KO Sandbag, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	002. Boba Tea, 003. Ginger Tea, 004. Cleopatra's Pearl Cocktail, 009. Astro Cake, 010. Bubble Gum Bomb, 014. Rock Hard Ice Cream, 024. Mono-Jinbei, 026. Hand-Knit Sweater, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 032. Cufflinks, 037. Travel Journal, 038. Dreams Come True ☆ Spell Book, 044. Tennis Ball Set, 045. High-End Headphones, 048. Illusion Rod, 061. Hand Grips, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 071. Dancing Haniwa, 074. Sports Towel, 077. Clock-Shaped Gaming Console, 078. Everywhere Parasol, 079. Three-Layered Lunch Box, 080. Aluminum Water Bottle, 081. Jelly Balls, 082. Upbeat Humidifier, 083. Earnest Compass, 090. Electric Tempest, 091. Space Egg, 095. Home Planet, 098. Hammock, 100. Flower for Floromancy, 105. Bear Ears, 110. Fully-Automated Shaved Ice Machine, 113. Dark Belt
Quotes
DRV3Extra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"I must be prepared for combat at all times, just in case someone tries to attack me!"
"I will protect myself with Neo-Aikido!"
"I'm Tenko Chabashira! HAIYAH! The Ultimate Aikido Master!""
"C-Cute!? Aaaahhh... St-Stop iiit... I... I-I'm not... cute... My face crinkles when I suck down a shake... And when I wipe my face, my eyelines turn inside-out." (after Kaede Akamatsu calls her cute)
"If any degenerate tries to touch me, my reflex is to grab them and throw them across the room."
"I'm not the culprit either! Only degenerate males would commit such an act of violence!"
"Let me make this perfectly clear-- the art of Neo-Aikido is not used for murder! If I had to fight off a male, I'd throw him across the room!"
"Also, I don't tolerate lies from anyone, but especially not from degenerate males! Got it?"
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"You can't! It's too dangerous out there! (to Kokichi Oma‎)
"I'm yelling so I can build up my spirit energy! Don't you know you can unlock your brain's full potential by yelling to build up spirit energy!?"
"Y-You gotta be kidding me! Why would friends kill each other!?"
Chapter 1:

"I agree with Kaede, too! We must remember who the real enemy is! Master told me that strength must always be aimed in the proper direction!"
"My body is ready! You can tell by how outta control my pit sweat is!"
"Oh-hoho...Looks like this little degenerate wants his head smashed into the ground."
"M-Males in the soft sciences are pretty soft themselves, so I dont think he'll do anything..."
"I agree with Kaede, too! We must remember who the real enemy is!"
"If anything happens, I'll protect most of you! But the degenerate males are on their own!"
"The only thing I believe in is Aikido!"
"I just know, okay!? Violent crimes are almost always committed by violent, disgusting men!"
"Males are degenerate creatures who betray others easily, but I'll trust you this time..."
"The only good thing about males is that girls give birth to them!"
"Don't act all high and mighty with me, you two-faced degenerate!"
"Nggaaah! We've come so far already! We just gotta do it...SO LET'S DO IT!!!"
"First, let's breathe in! And breathe out! We need to remember our "No, No, No's"! "No pushing! No running! No talking!""
"W-Wait, please! No torture! My tolerance for pain is actually really, really low! I'll just tell you everything! Anything! Just please don't hurt me!"
"Don't thrust the blame onto me! You degenerate males and your...thrusting! Ugh!"
"A true Aikido master would never do something so dishonorable!"
"Well said! For a degenerate male, you're actually pretty reasonable!"
"I won't give up! I'll get out of here, no matter what!"
"You're the worst of the worst! Does human life have no value to you at all!?"
"Sucker punching is pretty low...even for a lowlife degenerate male like you. You better knock it off or I'm gonna explode my Neo-Aikido all over your face!"
Chapter 2:

"This is why I hate degenerate males! They're about as considerate as amoebas!"
"I...also feel that I must carry on Kaede's wish. No matter what, we'll get out of here! I won't give up!"
"Shuichi, don't ever conduct yourself in such a shameful manner ever again!"
"What are girls supposed to do against the filthy desires of degenerate males!?"
"Yes! Degenerate males should definitely know their place!"
"After hearing that degenerate's speech, running away would just frustrate me!"
"Hmph! How can he say such insensitive things when we're trying so hard to survive!"
"Himiko, please get a hold of yourself! You have to face reality!"
"Let's combine our power and work together, everyone! Now lend me your energy, everyone! So we can catch the culprit!"
"Screw Atua! That guy's got nothing on me!"
"Stop picking on Himiko! A cute tiny flower like her couldn't kill anyone!"
"Y-You lying, little brat! Telling lies is what turns you into a degenerate male!"
"Nnnngraaaahhh!!! I'll smash in your face with my fists of hot burning steel!!!"
"I don't care what anyone says! Himiko would *never* murder someone! That's what I believe more than anything! I *want* to believe in her, no matter what! If I can't do that, then I'd rather just die! So until this body takes its final breath, I'm gonna keep believing in Himiko!!!"
"When males get this quiet, they're either caught in a lie or thinking dirty thoughts..."
"Himiko, it breaks my heart to hear you say depressing things!"
"I-I won't let that happen, Himiko! I'll protect you, no matter what! I'll protect you, no matter what... B-But...I don't wanna do this anymore either... Please...let's just stop this killing game... I don't care if we stay trapped here forever..."
"Anyway, this killing game is over! I won't allow it to go on!"
Chapter 3:

"I'll help, too! I don't want another killing to happen."
"A sneak attack is the way to go! We have to strike before she does! Hit her from behind!"
"My spirit was weak last night... I meant it when I said that I was sick of the killing game... But I'm ashamed I even suggested that we give up and stay here forever. We're gonna escape this place, without resorting to killing! We can't give up! With Himiko by my side, I'll fight to carry on Kaede and Kirumi's wishes! Oh, and I guess...Rantaro and Ryoma's wishes too. Might as well... You should be grateful that I'm being nice and including degenerate wishes at all!"
"I'm so happy, I just can't contain my emotions! Like an excited dog that just pees everywhere!"
"You don't have a lot of confidence in yourself, do you, Shuichi? You lack self-esteem...and because of that, you doubt your strength. You seem more confident than before, but I can tell you still question yourself. ...Well? I'm right, aren't I? I can tell when my sparring partner is burdened by doubt! You know what works real good at lifting all that doubt!? Neo-Aikido! Because Aikido itself is a Japanese martial art, that treasures a pure heart above all else!"
"If we combine your magic with my Neo-Aikido, then we'd be able to solve things by force!"
"I see... It seems you are still too shy to show your emotions, Himiko. What a waste. You have the richest heart of all. You should do Neo-Aikido, Himiko! Training your body will help you express your emotions. Now, come sweat with me! And afterward, we'll hit the showers together!"
"Aikido is not about competing for fun to see each other's strengths and weaknesses. By working together and using techniques that make full use of your mind, body, and breath... ...you can measure your physical and mental growth. That is the true purpose of Aikido. You do not compete for superiority in Aikido. In fact, in Aikido you do not compete at all. Aikido is not a martial art for inflicting harm, but a way to improve yourself!"
"Oh, I heard males can tell they're healthy by how hard they get in the morning! Is that true!?"
"And if this idealistic degenerate can't believe it, no reasonable girl would believe it, either!"
"Don't worry! They're nicely shaped! Beauty is way better than size anyway!" (to Himiko)
"I only believe in Aikido! As long as I have that, I can't be swayed by anything! Aikido values mental fortitude, and Aikido moves are a reflection of that fortitude. Thanks to Aikido, my mental fortitude is too mighty to succumb to Angie's brainwashing!"
Wh-What? Do you think it's strange that...I *want* to listen to Angie? So what? It's also important to listen to others, so we can work together.""
"It's wrong for a person to commit murder! It doesn't matter what the reason is!"
"Then do something about it already! I thought males were supposed to be decisive!" (to Shuichi)
"Robots and seances don't mix! They're like toothpaste and orange juice!"
"Keep your chin up and live life facing forward! Survive with me and everyone else!"
"Expressing your feelings is perfectly natural. You shouldn't feel ashamed at all. So...if you feel like crying while you're talking to Angie, go ahead and cry your eyes out. ...You'll feel better when you do. Well, I mean...laughing makes you feel better too... And venting your anger onto something can really cheer you up! Train your heart by crying, laughing, and venting your anger, Himiko."
List of Appearances
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
Trivia
Tenko is shown to have attraction to people of the same gender.
She appears very much attracted to Himiko, and it's been stated that some of this is because she absolutely loves idols, performers and small, cute things. She has called Himiko her "ideal girl" in the bonus mode Love Across the Universe and official manga, and has referred to both of them as "soul-mates" and believes they would be like an "old, married couple" if they get past their issues. She is also sometimes seen drooling whenever she seems to think about something suggestive concerning Himiko.
During Chapter 2, Tenko is jealous when Himiko appears attracted to Angie's "handsome" god, asking her why she doesn't go for Tenko instead. Himiko then directly asks her if she swings that way, shocking Tenko and causing her to embarrassedly claim it's not like that.
In her official English profile, it's mentioned that compliments from women will "make her heart aflutter" while the same compliments from men will "could result in [them] getting thrown across the room".In the official art book, it is stated that Tenko added the frills to her uniform by her own hand to make the design more attractive to girls, and that girls are allowed to touch her abs.
During the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, she strongly admires Sakura Ogami, and she states that in a different way than she feels for Himiko.
In the original Japanese, Tenko and Angie speak in the third person. Other characters with the same quirk within the series are Ibuki Mioda, Monaca Towa, and Gonta Gokuhara.
She loves tripe hot pot, which gives her energy very quickly after consumed.
She is shown to have unusually developed sense of taste and sensitivity to food's texture. Because of this, Tsumugi Shirogane asks her if she has a God's Tongue.
Tenko Chabashira doesn't know how to swim
She does not know how to swim, as mentioned by her in Chapter 2 when she arrives to the pool with K1-B0 and Shuichi. In the bonus mode Ultimate Talent Development Plan, she asks Aoi to teach her how to swim and it is mentioned she greatly improved her swimming thanks to Aoi.
Danganronpa V3 Tenko Chabashira's Lab Tekken Reference
Tenko Chabashira's missing hand error
Tenko's Research Lab seems to make some references to the Tekken franchise:
The symbols on the banner in the back seem to resemble the symbol used to represent the series' fictional organisation known as the Mishima Zaibatsu.
The multiple training dummies seen around the lab as well as the large one in the back also have a strikingly similar appearance to a playable character in the series, Mokujin.
In the prologue illustration with all the students, Tenko is missing her left hand.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Tenko the 8th most popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Tenko was voted the 12th most popular student in the electronic poll, and 6th through post cards.
References
↑ During the events of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony, it is revealed the students' talents are fabricated.
↑ Translated List V3 Students' Former High Schools
↑ Twitter Icon Julie Ann Taylor: "Julie Ann Taylor favorites a tweet "@MrsJulieATaylor Are you the voice of Tenko Chabasara in Danganronpa V3?"" (Image of tweet) (15 November 2017)
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 Seiyuu revelation.
↑ 5.0 5.1 Official Artbook Character Profile translated by @Kaibutsushidousa on tumblr.
↑ Chabashira's profile from the official website.
↑ Famitsu Scan October 6th, 2016.
↑ The supporting dialogue comes from her final Free Time Event with Shuichi Saihara. After Tenko commends Shuichi for wanting to master Neo-Aikido, she exclaims: "Aaaahhhh!!! I thought I could shake your hand, but I can't! Shuichi, please get a sex change right now! Then, there won't be any problem!" (Image Source 1) (Image Source 2)
↑ @Dragii_Bus: French report cards from DRV3 Prologue at Japan Expo
↑ 10.0 10.1 Danganronpa Wiki: Danganronpa V3 Chinese Talents translated by User "St4r dust"
↑ Danganronpa US Official Site
↑ MyNavi Poll
↑ DengekiOnline: 【電撃PS】『ニューダンガンロンパV3』ニンキトウヒョウ（人気投票）企画開催中！ (April 27th, 2017) (Japanese)

Navigation
 [show] v • e
GAME CHARACTERS
Categories:
Maintenance: Fanslation Removal Needed Characters Danganronpa V3 Characters Female Deceased Murdered
Languages:
Español  Français  Polski  Русский
Recent Wiki Activity
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Monokuma
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Leon Kuwata
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Celestia Ludenberg
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago
Ultimate Talent Development Plan/Chiaki Nanami
Rikuya  • 14 hours ago








Search

LogicalShark
1
START A WIKI
 ダンガンロンパ
ダンガンロンパ
1,164
PAGES
ADD
COMMUNITY
FORUM
in:
Maintenance: Fanslation Removal Needed, Characters, Danganronpa V3 Characters, and 5 more
Tsumugi Shirogane
English

 
SHARE
Tsumugi Shirogane	Gallery	Sprites	
FTE Guide Sonia Mini Pixel	This article contains FANSLATIONS and needs to be updated to official translations.	FTE Guide Sonia Mini Pixel


Tsumugi Shirogane
Illustration Sprite
 Illustration
Name
Aliases & Titles
Talent
Characteristics
Gender
Female Female
Height
174cm (JP)
5'9" (ENG)
Weight
51 kg (112 lbs)
Birth Date
♌ August 15
Chest Size
83 cm (33")
Blood Type
A
Likes
EVA foam
Dislikes
Disorderly queues
Killing Game Status
Personal Status
Debuts
Portrayals

"	Even if it's just fiction, I gave my life to make it.

— Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
"
Tsumugi Shirogane (白銀 つむぎ Shirogane Tsumugi) is a character featured in Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony and a participant of the Killing School Semester.

Tsumugi's title is Ultimate Cosplayer(超高校級の「コスプレイヤー」chō kōkō kyū no "kosupureiyā" lit. Super High School Level Cosplayer). However, she claims she doesn't like to wear her cosplays, and would instead prefer someone as passionate as she is to wear them.

Contents[hide]
History
Early Life
The Gofer Project
Killing School Semester
Introduction
Attempting the Death Road of Despair
The First and Additional Motive
The Truth Painted Over With Lies
The First Investigation and Trial
Exploring the Rest of the Academy
The Motive Videos
Gonta's Insect Meet and Greet
The Amazing Himiko's Magic Show
The Second Investigation and Class Trial
Investigating the New Areas
Angie's Student Council
The Third Investigation and Trial
Tsumugi's Research Lab
Neo World Program
The Fourth Class Trial
Down to the Final Few
Clearing the Death Road of Despair
Tsumugi's Backup Plan
The Fifth Class Trial
Uncovering the Truth
The Final Class Trial
Hope or Despair
Tsumugi's Fate
Truth or Lie
Creation and Development
Name
Alternate Fates
Appearance
Personality
Talent
Ultimate Cosplayer
In other languages
Relationships
Shuichi Saihara
Gonta Gokuhara
Rantaro Amami
Kaede Akamatsu
Korekiyo Shinguji
Kirumi Tojo
Himiko Yumeno
K1-B0
Monokuma
Junko Enoshima
Free Time
Presents
Quotes
List of Appearances
Trivia
References
Navigation
History 
Early 
Participation in Danganronpa
Tsumugi was a normal, talentless high school student and an avid fan of a reality show series involving the infamous Killing Game known as Danganronpa, created by Team Danganronpa. She was obsessed with the series so much so that she shows no sympathy towards people who participated in the Killing Game, seeing them as a mere part of the series' enjoyment that she loves to such a great degree.

According to herself, Tsumugi was a part of Team Danganronpa, though it is unknown when exactly she joined. It is also unknown when Tsumugi started to participate in what season of Danganronpa, as in the final trial of the Killing School Semester it is implied that she participated in more than two Killing Games, perhaps even in the 52nd Killing Game.

If she did actually participate in Danganronpa 52, then she made it to the finale and was executed along with one other participant, Rantaro Amami, leaving two remaining survivors to escape from the Killing Game. It is not clear if Tsumugi masterminded this Killing Game due to the fact that she must have chosen "hope" to be sacrificed, but either way the form of Execution was to participate in the next season of the Killing Game, where Tsumugi eventually either took on or reprised her role as the Mastermind while Rantaro became the Ultimate Survivor, and K1-B0, the Ultimate Robot and a fellow member of Team Danganronpa, was created to serve as the connector and camera of the audience in the outside world.

Due to her being the Mastermind of the Killing School Semester, she may very well be the least "altered" out of any of the other participants. However, her talent and title of Ultimate Cosplayer is very likely to still be a fabrication, though her memories seemed to be retained, unlike the others.

However, it should be noted that much of what she said about herself, the other participants, and Team Danganronpa in the final trial may or may not be accurate. This is mainly due to her highly deceptive nature, and the overall theme of truth versus lies central to the plot of the game.

During her high school days, Tsumugi attended Lily Rose Girl's Academy (百合薔薇女子学園). However, it is unclear if this memory of her is a part of the fabrication made by Team Danganronpa or if it was genuine.

The Gofer 
Main article: The Gofer Project
The Gopher Plan V3 Kids Part of the fake backstories Tsumugi had written for herself and the other fifteen participants of the Killing School Semester was The Gofer Project, which supposedly happened before the Killing Game started. It was initiated by heads of nations from all over the world after countless meteorites crashed into Earth, spreading a deadly virus all throughout the atmosphere. To try and preserve the last vestiges of mankind before the Earth’s destruction, the government decided to select sixteen talented students chosen by the Ultimate Initiative that also somehow happened to be immune to the virus, put them in a spaceship colony, and have them escape before the Earth's destruction. Tsumugi was among these sixteen individuals.
Despite being chosen to participant, Tsumugi and the other fifteen participants had no intentions of going along with the plan, not wanting to abandon their loved ones. As a result, Tsumugi chose to forget about her Ultimate talent and decided to live as a normal high school student.

Around that time an extremist cult came into power. They believed that the meteorites were a punishment humanity brought upon itself, and having heard of The Gofer Project, tried to stop it. As a result, the "Ultimate Hunt" started and spread throughout the world, and the sixteen students selected for the Gofer Project were hunted down.

The Gopher Plan Fake Deaths
The government then decided to counter the situation by faking the students' deaths, calming down the "Ultimate Hunt" while providing protection to the students. The Gofer Project was then put into action while the Earth was being destroyed by meteorites. Tsumugi and the others went to space in the massive ark, the true form of Ultimate Academy of Gifted Juveniles, and were put to a cold sleep for several decades.

Much later on in Chapter 5, after the remaining participants cleared the Death Road of Despair, Kokichi Oma lied about being the mastermind of the Killing Game and that he was the leader of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project. He also lied about being the one who let Monokuma enter the spaceship, which effectively forced Tsumugi and the others to participate in the Killing School Semester. All of this was done in order to get everyone to fall into so much despair that they would not continue the Killing Game.

However, Tsumugi, in order to get the remaining survivors at the time to continue the Killing Game, decided to connect everyone's memories of The Gofer Project to the story of Hope's Peak Academy. As a result, Tsumugi prepared a Flashback Light that tricked the remaining participants into thinking that everyone, including those that had died, were actually students of the rebuilt Hope's Peak Academy. They also remembered that the ones behind The Gofer Project were Makoto Naegi, the headmaster of the rebuilt Hopes Peak Academy, and the Future Foundation. This Flashback light also revealed that the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project were actually the Remnants of Despair and that Kokichi was their leader. This lie filled everyone with the determination needed to stop the despair they were faced with.

In Tsumugi's rush, she accidentally overlooked slight inconsistencies and plot holes when linking both stories together, such as "Ultimate Despair" only referring to Junko Enoshima, and that Class 78 was trapped by the Ultimate Despair when they had actually locked themselves within the school in order to shelter themselves from the tragedy outside.

Due to herself knowing that the story of The Gofer Project was nothing more than a lie created by the Flashback lights, it is highly unlikely that she ever took these memories seriously and only pretended to in order to stay in-character during the Killing School Semester.

Killing School 
Main article: Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

Danganronpa V3 CG - The Pre-Game students gathered in the gym Despite being the Mastermind of Killing School Semester, Tsumugi included herself as a participant among the fourteen students who were gathered in the gymnasium before Shuichi Saihara and Kaede Akamatsu arrived, bringing the number up to sixteen. She pretended to be just as confused as everyone else was about their current situation before the Monokuma Kubs arrived in their Exisals and gave the sixteen participants their Ultimate wardrobe, and their first memory via the Flashback Light. While it is unclear if Tsumugi was affected by the Flashback Lights, the other fifteen talentless students underwent the fabrication process, where all of their past memories and personalities were heavily fabricated. Tsumugi herself took up or reprised her role as the Ultimate Cosplayer. All of this was done for the sake of satisfying Danganronpa's audience from all over the world. After the fabrication process was completed, Tsumugi entered the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles with the others as totally different people, officially commencing the 53rd killing game season known as the Killing School Semester. Students of Fabrication
When the now-altered Kaede and Shuichi leave the second floor classroom for the second time to investigate the Academy, Tsumugi would be the first student that they both run into. When Kaede tried talking to Tsumugi, she was unresponsive even when she tried poking her cheek. She jokingly theorized that perhaps Tsumugi was just an extremely life-like mannequin before getting Shuichi to poke her cheek as well. Tsumugi finally responded to this, finding it unexpected to be poked from both sides. She said that she was ignoring them on purpose, hoping that they'd go away if she simply didn't respond. Kaede thought that this was pretty rude, but Tsumugi replied by asking her if it wasn't rude to try and get someone to talk when they clearly don't want to. Regardless, Tsumugi felt like talking at that point and introduced herself as the Ultimate Cosplayer, that she has a corporate sponsorship that let her use even the most expensive materials without restraint, and that people crowd around her like she's a panda at the zoo. She passionately told the duo that she preferred to make her outfits rather than wear them, but told them that she would wear her own outfits if it meant wearing them with love. Kaede remarked that she was pretty intense before both she and Shuichi asked Tsumugi what she was in such deep thought about. Tsumugi replied by saying she was curious about the conspicuous dragon statue and how out-of-place it felt. While Kaede and Shuichi both thought it was strange, they weren't able to deduce anything else about it and eventually left Tsumugi to go explore the rest of the school.

Danganronpa V3 CG - Start of the Killing School Semester
Tsumugi would later gather with everyone else in the gymnasium after the Monokubs made their announcement. Afterwards, the Monokubs and Monokuma, the Monokubs' father and the self-appointed headmaster of the Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles, arrived and announced that they would be participating in a Killing Game, much to almost everyone else's shock and horror. Tsumugi would continue to completely fool everyone with her act as a plain otaku, and as a friend that they could trust while secretly monitoring and orchestrating the Killing Game from behind the scenes.

Attempting the Death Road of 
After Monokuma officially started the Killing Game, Tsumugi read the rules on her Monopad. A majority of the group wasn't sure what to do after reading these rules and began to panic and argue. Thanks to Kaede's motivational speech, the panic died down and everyone seemed to become united. Afterwards, Gonta Gokuhara, the Ultimate Entomologist, then remembered that he found a manhole inside the boiler room behind the school building. Tsumugi, with everyone else, immediately followed Gonta's lead with hope of finding a way out. Though in Tsumugi's case, "hope".

Failed Death RoadDescending the manhole, Tsumugi and the others found a tunnel leading outside of the academy. Though everyone thought that the tunnel probably ended up being a trap, they still had to test every single possibility in order to escape. However, Tsumugi and the others exhausted themselves both physically and mentally as they found that escaping through Death Road of Despair is next to impossible. Due to this, Kokichi revolted, saying that Kaede's repeated motivational speech is the source of the group's agony, added by some of her friends giving up on escaping the tunnel, Tsumugi included, the group's harmony came to a swift end. The tunnel ended up being a trap set by Monokuma and the Monokuma Kubs, much to everyone's dismay. Tsumugi headed to her assigned dorm room to get some rest, pretending to feel dejected about the tunnel being a trap.
The First and Additional 
The next day, Tsumugi and everyone gathered in the dining hall. Once Kaede showed up, the whole group began to think back to yesterday's events but seemed to have consolidated slightly. Afterwards, Monokuma came to the dining hall and announced the first motive, anyone who committed the first killing will graduate without holding a trial, effectively calling it a "First Blood Perk". Everyone was worried about what this would mean, aside from Kaito, who became increasingly outraged with Monokuma for doing whatever he wanted and lunged at him. This caused the Monokubs to show up, showing no hesitation to punish Kaito with the Exisals for attempting violence against their father, effectively breaking the rules. The red Exisal charged at him but accidentally ended up crushing Monokuma instead, supposedly destroying him. The Monokubs were incredibly saddened at the sudden demise of their father, stating that he had no spare and that he was one of a kind. Upon learning this, Tsumugi and everyone else's mood improved greatly, thinking the killing game to be over.

However, this forced Tsumugi to head to the hidden room in the library in order to create a spare Monokuma later that same night. She was unaware that Shuichi and Kaede had set a trap on the card reader in the library, placing dust in the slot of the card reader in order to see if anyone was going through that door. Tsumugi still used that same card reader, unaware of this trap, and commanded Motherkuma to create a spare Monokuma to replace the one that was destroyed by the Monokubs. It is likely that Motherkuma informed Tsumugi about the dust in the card reader slot at this point. As a result, she decided to make use of the hidden passageway in the girl's bathroom instead to get to and out of the hidden room from now on.

The next morning, Tsumugi was with everyone else in the dining hall once again, pretending to be happy that the Killing Game had supposedly ended. However, it didn't take long for Monokuma to show up once again, much to the dismay of the rest of the students, but to the joy of the Monokubs. Monokuma goes on to reveal the additional motive, that if a murder did not occur within two days by noon, everyone who was forced to participate would be killed. This motive caused a majority of the group to become too depressed to stay united and leave the dining hall, Tsumugi included. In reality, this motive put pressure on Tsumugi and Monokuma as well. They didn't actually wish to create total chaos, but seeing that everyone refused to kill each other, they had no choice but to resort to desperate measures.

Akamatsu and Amami Fingernail Scene 2
In a bonus scene during Chapter 1, Kaede would meet up with Tsumugi in the game room and asked her to paint her nails in return for giving Tsumugi a nail brush earlier. Kaede was happy with Tsumugi's work, but then Rantaro Amami, the Ultimate ???, walked in and claimed that he could do nail art as well, which he proved by then painting Kaede's nails, much to her embarrassment and Tsumugi's jealousy.

The Truth Painted Over With 
On the final day of the time limit, during Rantaro and Kaede's separate plans to reveal the Mastermind, Tsumugi was in the dining hall with Miu Iruma, the Ultimate Inventor, Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, and Korekiyo Shinguji, the Ultimate Anthropologist. Once the monitors began to inform the participants that time was almost up, Tsumugi left the dining hall with the excuse of using the girls bathroom on the first floor. In reality, she was going to the hidden room in the library by making use of the hidden passageway in that bathroom. In the back of the cleaning supplies closet in the girls bathroom on the first floor was a hidden passageway that connected to the secret room in the library, the same secret room that Rantaro was attempting to gain access to, believing the Mastermind to be in there due to his Survivor Perk Monopad.

Rantaro's real blackened
Thanks to the Nanokumas swarming all over the campus and sending the footage they record to Motherkuma, Tsumugi already knew of Kaede's and Rantaro's separate plans to end the Killing Game and watched from the hidden room to ensure everything went as planned, preparing her own shot put ball just in case. She hoped that Kaede's plan to kill her would result in Rantaro's death instead, killing two birds with one stone. After witnessing Kaede's plan fail, Tsumugi immediately left the hidden room and bludgeoned Rantaro in the back of the head with her own shot put while he was distracted by Kaede's shot put that just barely missed him, killing him instantly. She then proceeded to alter the evidence to make it look like the crime was caused by the shot put Kaede rolled.

Tsumugi retrieved Rantaro's Survivor Perk Monopad as well as Kaede's shot put ball, then replaced it with her own. She immediately retreated back into the hidden room and left the bloodstained Monopad on the table and threw Kaede's shot put into the garbage bin believing no one would ever find them, essentially creating the perfect crime. After finishing the job and tying up all loose ends, Tsumugi headed back through the hidden passageway in the girl's bathroom and rejoined Korekiyo, Kirumi, and Miu in the dining hall as if nothing had happened, once again making sure to put on her usual plain otaku act.

The rest of the students running into the library
It did not take too long for the body discovery announcement to play, telling everyone to gather in the library. The group in the dining hall, which included Tsumugi, would be among the last group of people to arrive in the basement along with the people who had stayed in their rooms the whole time. Upon seeing Rantaro's body "for the first time", Tsumugi screamed, acting frightened at his sudden demise. Everyone was absolutely baffled as to how and why Rantaro was killed, with Kaede completely manipulated into thinking that she accidentally killed Rantaro when she was trying to kill the Mastermind and save everyone. As a result, the true events leading up to Rantaro's murder, as well as Kaede's innocence, were completely concealed from everyone as they investigated a crime that they could not find the answer to.

The First Investigation and 
Shirogane cosplaying as Akamatsu
During the investigation, Kaede and Shuichi decided to continue working together, questioning everyone and uncovering clues. When they heard from Korekiyo that Tsumugi left the dining hall to use the restroom, Kaede became suspicious and decided to head back to the library to question her. When she did and asked Tsumugi if she could have disguised herself as someone, Tsumugi took her to the first-floor girl's bathroom and asked Kaede to give her her clothes so she could cosplay as her. Once she did, Kaede saw Tsumugi's cospox, effectively meaning that she couldn't have disguised herself. Kaede was very shocked by this but was convinced that Tsumugi had a solid alibi.

During the first trial, while everyone is searching for a culprit, Korekiyo pointed out that Tsumugi did leave the cafeteria at one point to go to the bathroom once again, a claim that she promptly acknowledged. Ryoma Hoshi, the Ultimate Tennis Pro, was quick to be suspicious and wondered if she could have disguised herself and committed the crime, but she quickly denied it. Kaede was quick to defend her as well and stated that dressing up as real people would trigger her cospox, essentially solidifying her supposed alibi due to no one else having any knowledge of the hidden passageway in the girls bathroom. Later, when everyone was quick to pin the blame for Rantaro's murder on Shuichi, Tsumugi was ironically on the side who defended him. In the end, Kaede was wrongfully executed by Monokuma after being found out as the supposed "blackened". Despite this, nobody, not even Kaede would find out that she was, in fact, innocent until the final Class Trial in Chapter 6.

Exploring the Rest of the 
The morning of the next day, everyone would gather in the dining hall once again and have a normal, but forced conversation to try and make themselves forget about the horrible events that transpired yesterday. Once Shuichi arrived, Tsumugi was one of the ones who noticed that he had taken off his hat. Miu said that it was "good for him" before pointing out how Tsumugi turns invisible when she takes her glasses off. Tsumugi jokingly remarked that she couldn't do so because her taking her glasses off reveals her "true form" and that those who see her "true form" pay a terrible price. Afterwards, the Monokubs showed up and handed out four random items that the students could use to unlock more areas in the academy.

One of the areas that were unlocked was the Ultimate Magician's Research Lab on the first floor of the school, which Tsumugi, Shuichi, and obviously Himiko Yumeno, the Ultimate Magician herself would investigate. Himiko remarked that whoever made this lab got magic tricks confused with "actual magic", but was still impressed with the collection nonetheless. When the trio investigated the dove cage, Himiko described that that was where she kept her "familiar", which she described was a tiger cub. Tsumugi became very excited at the idea of a cute and fluffy tiger cub. Shuichi eventually left the two girls to explore the rest of the academy's new areas

Angie eventually told Tsumugi and everyone else to meet in the gymnasium, seemingly failing in discovering anything about the conspicuous flashlight that she and Shuichi had discovered earlier. After everyone had gathered, Monokuma appeared and told the participants that it was a Flashback Light and that it had the ability to restore lost memories before leaving and letting the students decide what to do with it. Although everyone was skeptical at first, they eventually gave in and used it, allowing everyone to remember that they had been on the run from the "Ultimate Hunt". Though they could not remember the exact details and circumstances behind it, just that they had been on the run.

The Motive 
During that same night, the Monokubs prepared the second motive, distributing various motive videos at random while the students slept. The next morning, Tsumugi joined everyone in the dining hall in order to discuss what to do with the motive videos. Gonta accidentally let slip that he had gotten Tsumugi motive video though she didn't seem to mind. Despite Ryoma suggesting that they exchange them, wanting to see who could be the most important person in his life, everyone rejected the idea, afraid that it would cause another murder to happen, much to his annoyance. Tsumugi went along with whatever everyone decided, though was confident that another killing would happen soon.

Gonta's Insect Meet and 
Gonta Insect Appreciation Club
During that same day, Gonta, thanks to Kokichi's lies, believed that everyone hated bugs and began kidnapping various students into his Research Lab in order to get them to like bugs. In reality, Kokichi simply wanted to get everyone to watch their motive videos in order make the Killing Game "more interesting". Tsumugi would be among the first students that Gonta detained along with Korekiyo, K1-B0, and Tenko Chabashira, the Ultimate Aikido Master. Not long after, Shuichi, Himiko, and Angie Yonaga, the Ultimate Artist, were also brought into Gonta's Research Lab, and the Insect Meet and Greet began. Everyone panicked as insects began to buzz about and wreck havoc. Tsumugi, in her panic, ended up swallowing a bug, but eventually, Kokichi came back with everyone's motive videos. In order to finally end this absurdity, K1-B0 used his recording function in order to convince Gonta that Kokichi had tricked him, much to the former's anger. With that, Tsumugi and everyone else barring Gonta and Kokichi took back their motive videos before immediately leaving Gonta's lab, then heading to bed.

The Amazing Himiko's Magic 
Magic show gone wrong
The very next morning, Tsumugi attended Angie and Himiko's magic show along with Kirumi and everyone else from Gonta's Insect Meet and Great, bar Kokichi. Angie explained the details of Himiko's trick before the Ultimate Magician jumped into the tank, having only a single minute to escape the water tank before the tank would fill with piranha's. Angie closed the curtains, but everyone grew increasingly worried as the timer continued to count down and Himiko had yet to come out. Gonta couldn't take it anymore and stormed the stage, wanting to save Himiko before the piranhas would fill the tank, much to Angie's disappointment. Once the timer ran out, the piranha's dropped into the tank along with some other large object, though Himiko had yet to come out of the tank. Tenko begged Angie to open the curtains, a plea that she promptly responded to by revealing the tank, however, no one was prepared for what they were about to see. Ryoma's lifeless, handcuffed body drifted within the tank, only having a couple seconds before the piranha's stripped the flesh from his bone, leaving nothing more than a skeleton, the handcuff's, and his belongings behind. In the Chapter 2 Closing Argument, Tsumugi is seen crying during this moment, being comforted by Kirumi. With that, the second investigation had begun.

The Second Investigation and Class 
During the investigation itself, Tsumugi followed Kokichi to the Ultimate Magician's Research Lab. Kokichi wanted to find out how Himiko had performed her trick seeing as she remained silent about the matter, claiming it was "magic" like usual. Tsumugi however, did not trust him and chose to keep an eye on him. As a result, she didn't help at all with the investigation.

During the Class Trial itself, Tsumugi once again did not do anything significant but pretended to be noticeably saddened one Kirumi was found guilty and executed, claiming she was "just like a mom", and was one of the students who cheered her on when she attempted to run from her execution. Seeing just how far the motive videos had driven Kirumi, everyone concluded that it was for the best not to watch them.

Investigating the New 
The next morning, at Kokichi's request after unveiling Maki Harukawa's true talent the night prior, Tsumugi along with everyone else barring Maki paid a visit to the "Ultimate Child Caregiver's Research Lab" only to discover various weapons all throughout the lab, proving that Maki was, in fact, the Ultimate Assassin, not a child caregiver. Everyone was concerned what to do, fearing that talent of a killer as a threat to their survival, but Kaito Momota, the Ultimate Astronaut, reassured everybody that he would take care of her. Afterwards, the Monokubs showed up, usurped their father as headmaster, and passed out more items for the students to unlock new areas within the academy.

One of the places that became unlocked was the eerie fourth floor. Tsumugi, along with Gonta, were creeped out by the floor's different design. The Monokubs then showed up an explained that apparently someone had died here long ago, though it was more than likely just some made-up backstory. Tsumugi, Gonta, and Shuichi would explore the three vacant rooms on the floor. All three rooms were the same and fairly unremarkable, though Gonta was able to notice that the floorboards were all loose and not nailed down properly.

Later on, Tsumugi would gather with everyone else in the dining hall in order to inspect the new Flashback Light that Shuichi found. Upon using it, everyone remembered what seemed to be their own funeral, much to the student's confusion. Kaito reassured everyone that there's no way the funeral could be real considering they were all still here and alive. His small speech seemed to work, as everyone perked back up, enjoyed a small meal, then headed back to their dorms.

Angie's Student 
That same night, Angie went to talk with Tsumugi, Himiko, Tenko, and K1-B0 in hopes of converting them all to her ideology and create a Student Council with the sole intent of ending the Killing Game while also throwing away their own desire to leave the academy. All four of them were "brainwashed" by Angie and became dependent on Atua. In Tsumugi's case however, it is likely that she actually joined of her own free will due to her being the Mastermind and that Angie's words never affected her due to begin with. It is also possible that she joined the Student Council because Angie aimed to stop everyone from wanting to leave the school, which would end the Killing Game.

The Ultimate Academy Student Council reformed
The now-"converted" Tsumugi gathered with everyone in the gymnasium the very next morning at the Monokubs request. The participants were presented with the third motive, the Necronomicon, and were told that they would be able to bring back someone who had died already as a transfer student. This motive baffled the students, saying that there's no way the dead could come back to life. However, Angie seemed to embrace the motive, saying the "corpses" so far may have just been very accurate imitations to make the real people seem dead. Some of the students argued that there's no way that's possible, but Tsumugi seemed intent on listening to what Angie had to say. She then listened to Gonta say that more letters were added to the rock in the courtyard, deducing that perhaps the four people who had died are actually alive and wrote that message. Angie praised Gonta and, like Tsumugi before him, pulled him into a hug. She instilled hers and Atua's authority into him by reassuring him that he's not alone and that Atua is like a gentle grandmother that always keeps him safe, effectively playing off of Gonta's desire for a motherly figure.

Angie then said that Gonta should join the student council, wanting to make Gonta feel needed. Tsumugi, and Himiko both requited this feeling. As a result, the Ultimate Entomologist did not hesitate for even a second if it meant he could be useful to everyone and joined Angie's group. Shuichi however, was confused as to what Angie meant by "student council", but K1-B0 replied by saying that Angie summoned himself, Tsumugi, Himiko, and Tenko last night in order to discuss how to eradicate the Killing Game and ended up forming the "Ultimate Academy Student Council" with Angie as their president. The "brainwashed" members listen to Angie completely and without question, stating that her will is Atua's will and as a result, she cannot be wrong. Angie took the Necronomicon and told everyone else to "leave it to the student council".

Tsumugi Shirogane Happy about knowing Atua
As a part of the student council, Tsumugi and the others imposed strict new guidelines on the rest of the participants, such as not being allowed out at nighttime, which would interfere with Shuichi's, Kaito's, and Maki's training time, and blocking the manhole cover in the boiler room to quell any desire to leave the academy by using the Death Road of Despair. These extreme actions effectively split the group in half, with Shuichi, Maki, Kokichi, Kaito, Miu and Korekiyo opposing the student council. Angie would instill her authority into Tsumugi again the next morning, and Tsumugi played along by imagining Atua as a cool black-haired, red-eyed god that watches over her.

The Third Investigation and 
Two days after the motive is presented, Angie's body was discovered in her own lab by Shuichi, Maki, and Tenko. After the body discovery announcement played Tsumugi rushed in and pretended to be incredibly saddened at the death of their student council president. She mourned her death along with the other student council members as the investigation began. Tsumugi seemed to suspect that Angie was killed by the spirit she was trying to commune with, frightening Kaito due to his phobia of the paranormal. Afterwards, she also suspected Tenko due to her defying the student council. Later after Tenko had died during the seance that Korekiyo suggested, Tsumugi became even more upset, crying and apologizing to Tenko for accusing her before.

During the third trial itself, Tsumugi started the debate by once again saying that Angie was killed be the transfer student that Angie attempted to bring back from the dead, which ironically happened to be Rantaro. Kaito was frightened once again, but Tsumugi was disproven by the sheer fact that the Necronomicon was still intact and that it had to be burned to complete the ritual. After Korekiyo was found out as the culprit of both murders and told everyone their motivations for killing, Tsumugi simply watched as he was executed by Monokuma. She later watched as Himiko cried at the loss of her two friends and supposedly cried with her.

Tsumugi's Research 
The very next morning following the third class trial, Tsumugi gathered with everyone in the dining hall yet again. The group became disheartened to see how many people they had lost up until now. Monokuma then showed up along with his Kubs to hand out the next set of random items to unlock more areas with, along with a card key that according to Monophanie would be the next motive, though Kokichi stole it and ran off. Tsumugi would search the academy with the others for new areas to explore.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 4 - Tsumugi Serving Drinks (2)
One of the areas that opened up was the fifth floor, which also housed the Ultimate Cosplayer's Research Lab. Instead of showing her interest or joy, she felt quite disappointed because the huge Research Lab feels empty and it's all for her, saying that it's more fun to cosplay with other people rather than alone. By examining the bartending prop set, Tsumugi revealed that before becoming a skilled cosplayer, Tsumugi worked part-time as a bartender, along with working at several other jobs.

Tsumugi later regathered with everyone else in the dining hall to investigate yet another Flashback Light. Once used on themselves, everyone remembered the meteorites that impacted the Earth and that it was described as being very similar to the meteor impact that wiped out the dinosaurs millions of years ago. They also remembered basic details of the cult bent on stopping the Gofer Project saying that mankind deserved damnation, and the Gofer Project itself.

Neo World 
A couple days later, Miu would gather everyone, Tsumugi included, in the computer room on the fourth floor. She explained to everyone how she had been working on it for the past few days or so and reprogrammed it into a "world without Monokuma or the killing game". In reality, she was actually plotting her own murder plan in order to escape. With Miu's persuasion, Tsumugi and the others agreed to head into the virtual world after hearing about a supposed secret of the outside world from Monokuma.

The group preparing to go into the Neo World Program
Tsumugi sat down in her chair and put the cords in her own headset, making sure to listen to Miu's explanation. Once Tsumugi logged in with the others, she was disappointed with the graphics of the virtual world, expecting more. Once Miu logged in, Tsumugi listened to her explain more aspects about the virtual world such as their avatars senses being connected to their real bodies, then showed them all the map of the world. Tsumugi was visibly more irritated with Miu's behavior here than she had been before. Everyone then headed to the chapel, making use of a signboard to cross the river. After reaching the chapel, everyone decided to explore the virtual world in order to find the supposed secret Monokuma was referring to. Tsumugi went with Shuichi, Kaito, Kokichi, and Gonta to explore the mansion, but Miu followed them and threw the signboard in the river to ensure that both groups would remain separate. Tsumugi and the others were obviously annoyed with this, but eventually just left Miu alone, thinking that she was just up to her usual antics. Tsumugi ended up being paired with Shuichi, exploring the dining hall and kitchen in the mansion respectively. Neither of them found anything of note, but Tsumugi did think she saw Miu outside the window despite the fact that she was on the chapel side and with the signboard tossed in the river, have no way to get back over the river. Upon telling Shuichi this, both of them along with everyone else in the virtual world heard a loud crashing sound. They also heard K1-B0's voice, confusing them even more as he was with the other group. Upon leaving the mansion to investigate, they were joined by Gonta, then reunited with all the others after finding the signboard stuck between some rocks in the river. Upon hearing that Miu's avatar wasn't moving, Tsumugi logged out with everyone else to find Miu dead in her own chair, having died from the shock of her avatar having been killed. As everyone stared at Miu's corpse dumbfounded, the investigation had begun for a fourth time.

The Fourth Class 
During the fourth Class Trial, Tsumugi valiantly defended Gonta once he was called out as the culprit by Kokichi. She called Gonta a sweetheart and claimed that he wouldn't even kill bugs. While she was technically right, hers and nearly everyone else's efforts amounted to naught, as Kokichi and Shuichi both proved that Gonta was able to commit the crime and that he didn't remember murdering Miu due to him mixing up the consciousness and memory chords in his headset. In reality, Gonta had been manipulated by Kokichi after being shown the secret of the outside world, falling into so much despair that he thought being dead was being better than being alive. Tsumugi cried for Gonta after he was executed, though it is highly likely that once again, her being saddened by Gonta's demise was just a part of her act. When Kokichi exclaimed that he reveled in everyone's pain and suffering, Tsumugi appeared noticeably disturbed by his deranged behavior and also rushed over to Kaito's side with the others after being knocked down by the Ultimate Supreme Leader. Once Kaito began coughing up blood, Tsumugi became frightened and asked him what was wrong, but he tried to reassure her and everyone else that he's fine before leaving the trial grounds.

Once again however, her being worried about Kaito was just a part of her act, as she was the one who came up with the plot-line where she gave him that virus as well as the plot-line where Maki would fall for him.

Down to the Final 
The very next morning, Tsumugi gathered with everyone else in the dining hall. Everyone else was obviously still worried about Kaito, but he once again tried to reassure them that he was fine and they all ate breakfast together. After eating, Kaito wondered just where Kokichi had gone off to after his monologue yesterday. Tsumugi and the others became tense and frightened at the mere mention of the Ultimate Supreme Leader, but everyone said that no one had seen him since yesterday. Monokuma showed up after not too long and passed out the last set of items to unlock new areas in the academy with.

One of the new areas that became unlocked was the Ultimate Astronaut's Research Lab, which Tsumugi explored with Kaito, Shuichi, Maki, and Himiko. Aside from a Gofer Project participant list, which had a large majority of it blacked out, nothing of notable use was gained from Kaito's lab, much to his disappointment.

After everyone had uncovered all the new areas, Tsumugi gathered everyone in the dining hall, but not to discuss a new Flashback Light. Instead, she informed everyone that the message in the courtyard had been completed and that it now stated, "This world is mine. Kokichi Oma". Kaito just wrote it off as Kokichi’s prank, not taking the final message seriously whatsoever. Everyone else seemed to agree with him, though wondered just where Kokichi had gone to and wondered if he took the Flashback Light seeing that none of the others had found it yet.

Clearing the Death Road of 
The next day, after Kaito realized that he didn't have much time left due to his illness, declared to Tsumugi and the others that they were all going to fight Monokuma the very next morning. He wanted to make good on his promise that he'd get everyone out alive, but needed their help if they were all going to get out of here. He said that now was their chance to finally fight back because the Monokubs were gone, meaning the Exisals would no longer be a threat to them. Tsumugi was still unsure however due to the academy being completely under his control and having numerous spares. Hearing this, Kaito asked them all if they were fine with the way things are now and that if they weren’t, then they had to fight. Eventually, as more and more people became determined by Kaito’s speech, Tsumugi also agreed. Everyone prepared mentally to fight Monokuma that same night.

As planned, Tsumugi and everyone else gathered in the gymnasium at nighttime, with Kaito bringing a vast assortment of weapons from Maki’s Research Lab. While everyone was preparing for battle, Kokichi suddenly appeared as well and brought with him Miu's memento, the electrohammers. He offered them to his classmates claiming that he wanted to end the Killing Game as well, but Maki was tired of his deceptive nature and threatened to strangle him once again, asking him just what he was scheming. Maki was eventually stopped by Kaito and the others, dropping Kokichi on the floor. The Ultimate Supreme Leader told everyone that he wouldn't interfere with them any longer before leaving the gym, along with Miu's memento for them to use. Tsumugi and the others were still skeptical, thinking that the hammers might have been trapped, but still had to explore every possibility. With Miu’s memento in hand, everyone headed to the Death Road of Despair. As they stood before the tunnel, Tsumugi and the others remarked that they would finally be able to fulfill Kaede’s wish and escape this Killing Game, making everyone even more determined. With that determination fueling them forward, they headed into the tunnel.

Danganronpa V3 - The remaining survivors standing in front of the exit door
After crossing the Death Road of Despair with Miu’s electrohammers, they came across a large metal hatch which they opened up and discovered the apparent state of the outside world, ruined and destroyed by meteorites, shocking everyone. Tsumugi and the others all became unable to breathe and lost consciousness not long after. An unprecedented amount of time afterward, the hatch closed and everyone woke up. Kokichi appeared and congratulated everyone for discovering the truth of the outside world. He revealed everything to them, that the world was in ruins, and that they were secretly on a giant spaceship that acted as an ark for the last sixteen survivors of humanity, or rather last "seven" survivors of humanity. Afterwards, Kokichi proclaimed himself as the leader of the cult bent on stopping The Gofer Project and the one who let Monokuma into the ark, effectively declaring himself as the Mastermind of the Killing School Semester. Everyone was skeptical at first until Kokichi used a universal remote control to make the Exisals do his bidding, further convincing the remaining survivors that he was, in fact, the Mastermind. Kaito once again becomes outraged with Kokichi and attempted to punch him yet again. However, Kokichi easily incapacitates the Ultimate Astronaut using the Exisals. Maki attempts to attack him as well but is stopped by Shuichi. Afterwards, Kokichi requests Shuichi to give him back the Exisal Hangar's alarm remote back, a request that he reluctantly complies to for Kaito's own safety. Kokichi declared that everyone was free to do whatever they pleased before leaving them all in a state of despair and taking Kaito hostage in the Exisal Hangar. Tsumugi was unable to do anything aside from be wide-eyed in shock at the idea that they were the last seven survivors of humanity and that they had been killing each other for nothing.

Tsumugi's Backup 
In reality, Tsumugi never felt anything at this revelation and only pretended to be in despair along with everyone else. She already knew that the outside world was perfectly fine and that what she and everyone saw after opening the hatch was nothing more than a scene that her "staff" had prepared (according to herself in the final Class Trial). Nevertheless, Kokichi pretending to be the Mastermind and making everyone fall into so much despair that they no longer wanted to continue the Killing Game proved to be an unexpected development in her scenario.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 6 - Tsumugi Making Flashbacks LightsWith a whole day passing by of nothing happening, likely boring the outside world, Tsumugi was forced to take action. That same night, making sure not to be seen by anybody, she headed to the classroom on the second floor. This classroom had a special device that only she knew about, a device that allowed her to create Flashback Lights. In order to get everyone motivated to fight against this despair, Tsumugi could think of no better memory to give the remaining participants than memories of the Hope's Peak Academy Saga and that Kokichi was a Remnant of Despair. With this Flashback Light, she was confident that everyone would remember that they were the symbols of hope and that this memory would motivate them all to continue the Killing Game. Specifically, she was hoping that Maki would become so determined to save Kaito upon obtaining this memory that she would end up getting Kokichi killed in her recklessness and become the Blackened herself. She prepared this Flashback Light and left it in the dining hall for the others to find. In Tsumugi's rush however, she ended up overlooking slight contradictions and plot holes that resulted from trying to merge the conflict of The Gofer Project with the story of Hope's Peak Academy. These contradictions, would not be made apparent to the others until much later.
The next morning, Maki would be the first person to find the Flashback Light in the dining hall. Finding it necessary to inspect it with the others, she gathered Tsumugi and everyone else in the dining hall. Tsumugi pretended to be just as dejected about the situation as everyone else before they all saw the Flashback Light and remembered that they were students of Hope's Peak Academy, that the cult trying to stop The Gofer Project was actually the Remnants of Despair, and that Kokichi was their leader. Everyone else, aside from Kokichi and Kaito who were confined in the Exisal Hangar, and Tsumugi who already knew the memory was fake, were completely manipulated by the false memory. They planned to stop Kokichi, save Kaito, and end the Killing Game once and for all. Maki would also act just as recklessly as Tsumugi had hoped she would, breaking her promise with the group about starting tomorrow and stormed the Exisal Hangar to kill Kokichi. She was less than successful, as both Kaito and Kokichi were seriously wounded from her assault, with Kokichi being very close to death. However, the Ultimate Supreme Leader would have one last trick up his sleeve despite his plan to end the Killing Game having failed. He hoped to create an unknown victim case so that even Monokuma and the real Mastermind wouldn't be able to create proper judgment in the class trial.

The Fifth Class 
The next morning, Tsumugi would join her fellow classmates in storming the Exisal Hangar, only to find a body crushed beyond recognition underneath the press machine, the only clue as to who the victim could be being Kaito's sleeve whereas Kokichi is still missing. Everyone is horrified at the thought of having lost Kaito as the investigation began.

During the Class Trial, Tsumugi along with everyone else is still confused about their current state of beginning a Class Trial with two missing people, but Monokuma reassured them that it's fine and that the one missing person is "on standby in the back". When that supposed missing person arrives riding an Exisal and supposedly pretends to be Kaito before revealing themselves as Kokichi, Tsumugi, along with everyone else, believes that Kaito must have been the victim until later on in the trial, where the voice coming out of the Exisal changed to match Kaito's again. Tsumugi along with Himiko and K1-B0 believed that the victim could have been Kokichi and that the one riding the Exisal is Kaito. Although Shuichi and Maki thought that they disproved this claim, it is later revealed that Tsumugi was originally right near the end of the trial and that the one inside the Exisal was, in fact, Kaito carrying on Kokichi's will.

Tsumugi, along with everyone else, is rendered depressed, stunned and silenced at the fact that Kaito ended up being the culprit of Kokichi's murder. However, he reassured everyone to smile, send him off in style, and that he won't accept their tears before proudly telling the real Mastermind, though he didn't know who they were, that his friends would end this Killing Game. Tsumugi then watched as Kaito accepted his execution, but choose to die on his own terms and not Monokuma's.

Tsumugi Shirogane cosplaying Junko Enoshima in Monokuma producing room
After the class trial ended, Tsumugi secretly headed to the hidden room and cosplays as Junko in order to fool the viewers. She can be seen interacting with Motherkuma, declaring that the Killing Game is invincible and that as long as she exists, the Killing Game will keep going forever.

Everyone exercising
Tsumugi, putting on her act once again, would later reunite with Shuichi, Maki, and Himiko in the courtyard, intent on ending the Killing Game for Kaito's sake. They all begin training, but it is cut short by K1-B0, who had lost his "connector" to the outside world and thus; was determined to destroy Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles and end the Killing Game himself.

Uncovering the 
Tsumugi and everyone else were shocked and frightened to discover the academy coming under fire from the Ultimate Robot, suddenly being able to fly and shoot lasers. Once again, an unexpected development had occurred in Tsumugi's scenario. Thanks to K1-B0's antenna having been knocked off as well, he was no longer connected to the outside world and sought to rectify this matter as soon as possible. The group ran to the front of the school to try and get K1-B0's attention. He eventually hovered down towards them, stopping his assault, and asked him what they wanted and to keep this brief. When asked, K1-B0 said that no matter where they go, Despair will be right around the corner. As a result, he was determined to destroy the school even if it meant that he himself and everyone else would die. Shuichi was eventually able to turn his way of thinking around, but only until dawn. K1-B0 threatened Tsumugi and everyone else that if they could not find the truth behind this Killing Game before dawn breaks, he will continue his destruction of the academy. Monokuma and the rebuilt Monokubs in their respective Exisals eventually showed up to try and stop his assault, declaring that the Killing Game cannot be ended. With that, Tsumugi and the others ran into the school for cover while K1-B0 tried to hold the Exisals off until dawn.

K1-B0's fight throughout the school grounds ended up opening many new areas that held clues to the secret of the Killing Game. One of the new areas that were opened up was a room in the back of the Ultimate Astronaut's Research Lab. Tsumugi discovered this and went to go inform Shuichi, who had just finished investigating Rantaro's newly opened Research Lab. The duo went to investigate, finding sixteen pods and another Gofer Project participant list, this time listing everyone who participated in the project as well as their relatives. This discovery triggered a flashback sequence from the Flashback Light Monokuma used after Chapter 5's trial. This time they remembered the moment all of them first entered the pods as they went to space to avoid the Earth's destruction, sleeping for several decades in cold sleep. After this, Tsumugi mentioned something that came off as suspicious to her, which was the fact that the participant list stated that Kaede had a younger twin sister. She found this suspicious due to the fact that Junko Enoshima also had a twin. Shuichi found this to be an odd coincidence and made sure to keep it in mind. In reality, Tsumugi was simply hoping to deter Shuichi and the others from finding the truth.

Tsumugi would later gather with Shuichi, Maki, and Himiko in the library, hoping to finally be able to investigate the hidden room that they had all been unable to access for this entire time with K1-B0's help. Monotaro showed up in his Exisal and attempted to stop their investigation, but K1-B0 immediately rushed to his friend's rescue, knocking the Exisal to the side and binding it in the rubble to keep it from moving for a while. K1-B0 then opened up the hidden room by using his laser cannon, blowing the door to smithereens. This worried Tsumugi greatly, as Motherkuma was in there, along with Rantaro's Survivor Perk Monopad, and Kaede's shot put ball from the first case that she never properly disposed of because she never imagined anyone would be able to get into the hidden room. To try and divert as much suspicion as possible from herself when the participants first interacted with Motherkuma, Tsumugi took control of the conversation once Motherkuma's ability to birth new Monokuma's was brought up and asked it to "make" a new Monokuma. She intentionally did not say "birth" to avoid triggering Motherkuma's voice recognition software and creating a new Monokuma, which would give away that she was the Mastermind. While she was able to trick everyone with the voice recognition software, Shuichi was able to find both the Survivor Perk Monopad, and the shot put ball with pink fiber on it, allowing him to deduce how to pin down the Mastermind of the Killing Game. Investigating the hidden room also triggered another flashback sequence from the Flashback Light Monokuma used after Chapter 5's trial. This time they all remembered waking up from their cold sleep prematurely and Monokuma erasing their memories using the Blackout Light

Tsumugi Shirogane and Shuichi Saihara run away from an explosion
Everyone aside from Himiko would leave the hidden room, only to find K1-B0 in a battle with Monotaro in his Exisal in the library. During their fight, the way back into the hidden room became blocked by rubble, worrying Tsumugi and the others greatly as Himiko was still trapped in there. They chose to trust that Himiko would be fine however and Tsumugi went off to investigate on her own Afterwards along with the others. However, Himiko would find the hidden passage that led out of the hidden room and into the girl's first-floor bathroom, the same hidden passage that Tsumugi made use of to get to the hidden room without anyone noticing to murder Rantaro. Maki later went to find Tsumugi after Shuichi had finished his investigation of the girl's bathroom and gathered in the courtyard, where Shuichi had proposed to hold a class trial to end the Killing Game once and for all, shocking both Monokuma and K1-B0. Tsumugi, Maki, and Himiko were all equally confused at this but eventually went along with what Shuichi planned to do upon hearing that he wanted to end the Killing Game with this Class Trial. K1-B0 was taken away by the Monokubs to take off his armaments, as well as fix his connector to the outside world, allowing him to hear his "inner voice" again. Tsumugi seemed noticeably irritated at K1-B0 after he came back, but held it in and descended to the trial grounds with other four remaining survivors.

The Final Class 
Tsumugi, along with fellow survivors Himiko, K1-B0, and Maki, at Shuichi's recommendation, decided to re-open Rantaro's case after discovering new truths related to his murder. Once Shuichi revealed Rantaro's talent as the Ultimate Survivor, and proved that Kaede did in fact not murder him and was executed unjustly, he realized that the Mastermind had to be one of them. With everyone so close to the truth, Tsumugi grew increasingly more nervous, even going so far as to accuse Kaede's younger twin sister due to the similar circumstances surrounding Kaede's death and the death of Junko's twin. She was quickly proven wrong, as there being a seventeenth person hiding in the school contradicted what Motherkuma said. Instead, Shuichi recommended that they all double-check everyone's alibis during Rantaro's murder, which finally allowed Shuichi to hone in on Tsumugi as the true culprit and Mastermind of the Killing School Semester.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 6 - Closing Argument (11)
Tsumugi panicked, denying the claim vehemently where-as the other survivors were confused and shocked that the Ultimate Cosplayer could have gone through with such a plan and be the Mastermind behind their current predicament. Shuichi however, made it very clear that Tsumugi was the only person who could have murdered Rantaro by using the hidden passageway in the girls bathroom, which also led into the hidden room that connected to the library. She attempted to pin the blame on K1-B0 since he was not present for when they interacted with Motherkuma, but Shuichi is quick to call her out on not giving the command of "birth" which would have triggered Motherkuma's voice recognition software and created another Monokuma, proving that she would be the Mastermind. Realizing that she had been cornered, Tsumugi finally dropped her act and revealed herself as "Junko Enoshima the 53rd".

Junko Enoshima the 53rd English
Tsumugi, now cosplaying as Junko, went on to state that she simply wanted to reproduce her own Killing Game and that there was nobody watching. Shuichi however, did not believe this claim due to their contradicting memories, as well as the facts regarding Kokichi and Rantaro that also conflicted with their memories of the Hope's Peak Academy Saga. As a result, Shuichi was able to determine that everyone's memories of being students at Hope's Peak Academy, The Gofer Project, and shouldering their friends and families burdens as mankind's last hope, was all a false memory planted into their brains by the Flashback Light. Tsumugi then revealed that everything they remembered about attending Hope's Peak Academy and the outside world being destroyed was a lie and that the Flashback Lights were actually tools to implant new memories, not tools to help you remember. What the participants remembered about Kokichi being a part of the Remnants of Despair was a lie as well, much to everyone's shock.

In reality, the circumstances behind their Killing Game were far more cruel. After proving her talent fully as the Ultimate Cosplayer by cosplaying as the participants of the Killing School Life and the Killing School Trip, Tsumugi revealed that everything that took place in the Hope's Peak Academy Saga was nothing more than fictional events from a very popular anime and video game franchise known as Danganronpa. She also revealed that their entire Killing Game had been broadcasted to a very peaceful world that was completely obsessed with Killing Games, essentially revealing that everything they've been through as a reality-TV show and "Ultimate Real Fiction". She told them all that she herself was a part of Team Danganronpa, a company that makes the "finest killing entertainment" and that everyone loves their work.

While the other survivors were quick to oppose Tsumugi and Monokuma, they both revealed that the participants of the Killing School Semester are also "fictional characters", whose memory, personality, feelings, and talent were all fabricated by the Flashback Lights in order to provide exciting characters for the Killing Game. To back up her claim, Tsumugi showed Shuichi's, Kaede's, and Kaito's supposed audition videos for the Killing Game, showing that they were all very twisted or outright depressed people that, like the audience watching, were obsessed with Danganronpa to the point where they willingly participated in the Killing Game. Everyone became shocked at this sudden revelation and subsequently fell into Despair, unsure of what to do now that everything so far had been revealed to be lies. Tsumugi belittled Shuichi especially harshly, calling him just as much of a weakling as he was at the start of this Killing Game for giving up, then went on to state that while this was a surprisingly disappointing development it was fine because they were "still on script".

Hope or 
Tsumugi Shirogane in a television screen on the outside worldK1-B0 however, reassured everyone not to lose Hope, stating that that was what his "inner voice" was telling him and that if this was the "Ultimate Real Fiction", then not all of it could be fictional and that there must be something they could do. Tsumugi corrected him and said that the voice K1-B0 had been hearing this entire time was actually the voice of the people watching this Killing Game, an audience survey. She continued to state that he was nothing more than an interactive communication device and camera for the viewers to interact with and participate in the game themselves. Despite this, K1-B0 refused to give up on Hope and stated that the people in the outside world don't want Despair. Tsumugi meanwhile refused to give up on Despair and stated that a world that enjoys killings could not possibly desire Hope. In true Danganronpa fashion, they decided to settle this with one final, special vote where K1-B0 represented Hope and Tsumugi represented Despair. K1-B0 and Maki were both willing to sacrifice themselves if it meant that Hope could win and Shuichi and Himiko could live despite the fact that there was supposedly nothing left for them in the outside world.
Shuichi however, saw through the charade and cut in, saying that neither choice was correct and that choosing Hope would do nothing but cause the Killing Game to continue, which he and K1-B0 were able to deduce thanks to the late Rantaro's circumstances. Because of this, Shuichi decided to stop playing along and abandoned his vote, hoping to end Danganronpa once and for all by willingly sacrificing his own life, much to Tsumugi's and Monokuma's chagrin. Eventually, Shuichi convinced everyone else to abandon their vote as well but K1-B0, in a last-ditch effort to keep Danganronpa going, was taken over by the audience. Seeing this, Tsumugi laughed, proud to show that the audience did not wish for Danganronpa to end and explained that they supposedly deleted K1-B0's personality that kept getting in the way. Everyone was shocked and horrified at this, but they did not sway, confident that they could change the outside world with their decision. Despite Tsumugi telling them that what they're doing was pointless, Shuichi refused to give up, still exclaiming that he will end Danganronpa and that their lives are not just show-things for people's entertainment.

Confident that his voice reached the outside world through K1-B0, Shuichi and everyone else abandoned their vote. Tsumugi however, bent the rules one last time and abandoned her vote too, which she revealed after everyone else did. Shuichi, Maki, and Himiko are immediately confused and worried as to why she abandoned her vote as well. Tsumugi stated that if they're going to risk their lives to end Danganronpa, then she would risk her life to make it continue. Tsumugi was confident that Danganronpa would continue after abandoning her vote, meaning only K1-B0's vote would have any power as he was still being controlled by the outside world. She even went as far as to describe a new plot-line for him in the next Killing Game.

Tsumugi's 
When Monokuma displayed the results of the final voting, Tsumugi became shocked to discover that no one had voted, proving that the audience does not want Danganronpa to continue. Tsumugi panicked and tried to make everyone reconsider, but it was no use as the monitors all turned off, the audience no longer showing any interest. Tsumugi, upon realizing that Danganronpa was indeed over and done with, promptly lost all of her hope in living as she denied a world without Danganronpa, but had not prepared a proper Punishment before-hand and as such left it to K1-B0. Despite the fact that her plan had failed at the very end, she still said that she could hold her head up high as a "cosplaycat criminal", as her plan failing at the very end made her "imitation" perfect.

Tsumugi Shirogane's death
K1-B0, now acting on the will of the outside world, did not hesitate and proceeded to execute everything, sparing everyone but Monokuma and Tsumugi, the latter waving at the camera with a look of disappointment on her face before being flattened under a giant boulder inadvertently caused by K1-B0 destroying everything and self-destructing to let Shuichi, Himiko, and Maki escape the dome, ending Danganronpa for good.

Danganronpa V3 Chapter 6 Execution
Danganronpa V3 Chapter 6 Execution

Truth or 
Although she did not survive the final Execution, her final words of being a mere imitator rang in Shuichi's head. He believed that perhaps Hope's Peak Academy and the Remnants of Despair could actually exist much to Maki's and Himiko's shock, though this is nothing more than speculation on his part based on Tsumugi's final words.

Creation and 

Her first name is written in hiragana (つむぎ), but can be written in kanji as 紬, which refers to pongee silk. Her last name kanji, 白銀 shirogane, which consists of the kanji for "white" (白) and "silver" (銀), may refer to a few things. Shirogane is a native Japanese word for silver, which is commonly known as 銀 gin. The second definition refers to a metaphorical expression for snow.

Alternate 
In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Tsumugi was first seen in lodging area along with Kirumi Tojo and Ryoma Hoshi. She introduced herself as the Ultimate Cosplayer despite her normal-looking appearance. She tells Kaede that she only enjoy creating costumes and prefer other people wearing her costumes. However, she often wears her own costume due to many cosplayers only wanted to make themselves famous instead of expressing the love of the character that they cosplay.

During the incident of Yasuhiro Hagakure's murder, Tsumugi testified that she sees Kirumi cleaned all of the students dormitories and said that maid work is super cute.


Danganronpa V3 NDRV3 Art Gallery Tsumugi Shirogane
Tsumugi is a tall young woman with long, knee length, cerulean hair which starts smooth and becomes wavy the lower it goes. Her eyes are soft teal and round. She wears rimless glasses with white temples.

Her uniform consists of a white blouse, a knee length pleated skirt, adorned with six white buttons on her waist; her skirt seems to be held by suspenders. She wears an orange bow, black socks ending under the knee, and grey shoes. Her blazer has two pockets on both sides and is adorned by the same white buttons as her skirt.

She has been shown without her blazer in her promotional artwork, which shows an insignia of a sort on her left breast.

Tsumugi states as a rather normal and plain-looking otaku.

Upon being found out as the Mastermind of the Killing School Semester and revealing her talent fully as the Ultimate Cosplayer, Tsumugi's normal, plain appearance undergoes a couple minor, but still noticeable changes. Her hair becomes a bit wavier, and her eyes glow an eerie blue, which may be a characteristic sign of her madness, similar to how Nagito Komaeda can get when he speaks of his warped desire for hope.

Another slight difference is that dark, pale-blue bags appear under her eyes. The exact reasoning behind this is uncertain, though the likely explanation is that it is meant to be symbolic with how the Danganronpa franchise has continued for 53 installments and that even she may be getting tired of the absurd repetition.


Tsumugi is an honors type student who speaks in a docile and gentle way, but she becomes very passionate when she talks about her favorite series or cosplays, having a habit of slipping infamous quotes from various sources into the conversation. Being a self-proclaimed introvert, she also tends to ignore people while she's in her thoughts, no matter how many times they try talking to her, and appears rather distant at times.She tends to call herself and everything that she has done "plain," as she believes that among all of the students, she is the one who has the plainist appearance and personality. She uses the word repeatedly and sometimes appears even offended if someone else tries to argue that she isn't plain. She understands that some people might not recognize her as the Ultimate Cosplayer since her plain appearance conceals her talent.

While Tsumugi is the Ultimate Cosplayer, she only enjoys making costumes, not wearing them, as she is not really fond of people looking at her.However, she hates using cosplayers who care more about standing out than love of the characters, so she wears her own costumes as well but with love.She deeply loves cosplaying as she states that cosplaying is an expression of love. She has deep respect for fictional characters and gets very offended if they are disrespected.

Despite her plain and docile attitude, certain hints suggest that she may actually be quite perverted, as she is a bit stereotypical fan of anime and manga. After the time limit motive was made apparent in Chapter 1, she was saddened by not being able to hide her "special art commissions" and "that pillowcase" she bought before she dies. She also at one point, in an optional dialogue conversation, wonders if she could wipe her entire hard drive at home from within the Ultimate Academy, worrying about the pictures that were saved on it, perhaps hinting at an interest in pornography, hentai, or something similar to them. In her Love Suite fantasy scene, she appears to have an interest in incest, as she imagines her "ideal" as her older stepbrother, and sex is heavily implied (which seems to refer to the quite popular hentai trope of romance between step siblings). She seems very intent on keeping this side of her hidden, as it is very rarely brought up or acknowledged by anyone in the killing game.

Tsumugi is somewhat timid, and she is usually the first person who screams whenever something scary happens. Another notable trait of hers is that she is somewhat pessimistic, as shown in Chapter 5 when she refused to fight Monokuma, thinking that it was too reckless and dangerous. Furthermore, whenever someone else has a some sort of character establishing moment, she tends to act threatened and inferior, as she closes her eyes and puts her hands up in slight defense while she squeals something about how much more interesting, stronger, cooler or pure the other person is compared to her. Regardless, she generally appears to be a kind person, as seen in the way she grieves the deaths of others and treats Gonta in patient, gentle manner.

However, she also seems to be very skilled with blending in her environment. She constantly changes her mind and follows any decisions made by the majority, even if she doesn't have any actual reasons for it, and she eventually followed everyone to beat the Death Road of Despair. In any occasion, she tends to react to even the most minor things said by the others. She is able to follow the conversation with Himiko about her "magic", asking Tenko why her technique is far too aggressive for a martial art like Aikido, and most notably she tries to tell Gonta not to be a too honest person. Notably, despite her somewhat timid and plain personality, it is indicated that she actually has the ability to take control in the few situations she wishes to. Right after meeting her, Kaede describes her as "exuding pheromones" and is distracted by her "sexy" face while having a conversation with her. When she later makes a cocktail for Shuichi in her personal bar, he notices that Tsumugi is discreetly seducing him through the clinking sound of the glass and the suddenly notable lack of her jacket covering her blouse. He ends up wondering just what kind of place she worked in. During her Love Suite Event with Shuichi, she quickly seduces him, as if "wrapping her voice around his brain" and he feels he cannot resist her.

After being revealed as the mastermind of the Killing School Semester in Chapter 6, she reveals herself to not be that much different from Junko Enoshima herself. She is manipulative and cruel, choosing to murder Rantaro and frame Kaede for his death all so that the killing game would not end due to the motive Monokuma presented at the time. She openly fooled her fellow "classmates" as a friend and comrade all the while secretly orchestrating the killing game and making sure that everything went according to the "setting" provided for them.

She takes great pride in her cosplay, claiming her mimicry of the characters from Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc and Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair to be "complete reproductions", or exactly like the real thing even down to their personality, behavior, speech patterns, and goals. She claims that she can even use her cosplay skills to make the fictional world around her seem like it is real. As a likely benefit of her talent, she is also a master of deception and trickery, able to fake her entire character as the Ultimate Cosplayer and as an Otaku throughout the entire killing game and subsequently fool everyone else around her by constantly saying how plain and simple she was. She turns noticeably arrogant as the final class trial continues, claiming that everyone else was a fool to think of her as a comrade and friend. She cares nothing for those that participated in the killing game, claiming that they were born for the killing game and cannot live outside the world of Danganronpa anymore.

Once the final vote was cast and it is revealed that no one had voted, she grows considerably bewildered, unable to comprehend as to why the outside world would want a world without Danganronpa. She states that she has no interest in a world without Danganronpa, before getting executed by K1-B0 while wearing a completely bored and apathetic expression (contrasting Junko's gleeful face when she was executed), showing her obsession with fiction and love for the series. She idolized Junko to a great degree, almost as much as the Remnants of Despair do, claiming in the end that she could be proud that her plan failed as it made her "imitation" perfect.

This dramatic change in personality from before being found out as the mastermind and after seems to paint her in the light of a crazed, radical Danganronpa fan-girl, completely obsessed with the franchise to the point where she shows no sympathy or remorse for putting real people into an actual Killing Game for mere entertainment purposes. Among her final words, she referred to herself as a "cosplaycat criminal", and it's speculated by Shuichi that she may have been lying about everything being fictional.


Ultimate 
Tsumugi's talent as the Ultimate Cosplayer is a fabrication made by Team Danganronpa. Due to that fact, it is unclear whether Tsumugi is a sponsored cosplayer in the past.

Danganronpa V3 Tsumugi Shirogane Introduction (Demo Version)
Despite her status as the Ultimate Cosplayer, Tsumugi actually doesn't have interest in cosplaying herself. Rather, she states that she enjoys recreating costumes more. She loves to create costumes because it is like making a fictional character real, in a way. She also has a sponsorship that makes her can create costumes with expensive materials.

She is also a well-versed otaku in anime and manga references. In her promotional artwork, Tsumugi is featured with mannequins wearing lingerie and a wig, several paints and cosmetic brushes, as well as red thread and an object which could be interpreted as scissors. This could imply that her talent is multi-faceted.

In Chapter 1, Tsumugi states that she gets "Cospox" an allergic reaction where a bumpy rash spreads across her entire body if she cosplays as anyone that is real. In Chapter 6, she proves her talent fully by accurately cosplaying as multiple characters from Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc and Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair. She is capable of matching their appearances, voices, and mannerisms perfectly, making her imitations even more accurate than Ultimate Imposter's, although this could be due to Team Danganronpa sponsoring in her costumes to make it as accurate to the characters as possible. However, by doing this, she also reveals that the Hope's Peak Academy Saga and all involved were nothing, but fiction within the Danganronpa V3 Universe.

Possibly as another reference to her talent, Tsumugi is capable of breaking the fourth wall and has a heightened awareness of fiction and reality.

In other 
Tsumugi's talent as it appears in official translations of Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony.

Ultimate Cosplayer
Title	English Translation
日本語 超高校級の「コスプレイヤー」	Super High School Level Cosplayer
Français Cosplayeuse Ultime	Ultimate Cosplayer
‪中文(台灣)‬ 超高中級的角色扮演家	Super High School Level Cosplayer
中文 超高中级的角色扮演家	Super High School Level Cosplayer

Ultimate Academy for Gifted Juveniles Students:
Shuichi 
The two were in good terms with each other and actually tried to help with each other with the situation. However, in Chapter 6, Shuichi was upset and disappointed when he figured out that Tsumugi was the mastermind behind the whole killing game. Despite this, he still wanted her to argue and prove his deduction as incorrect showing that he doesn't consider her any less of a fellow friend or comrade, nor does he wish to condemn her either.

When she acknowledges his claims that she was the one who killed Rantaro and framed Kaede for Rantaro's death, Shuichi seemed to have broken all former ties with her and resolved himself to stop her and end the killing game. Shuichi became noticeably depressed when Tsumugi told him that his memories, feelings, talent, and personality were all fabricated for the sake of the killing game, but he is brought back to his sense when K1-B0 motivated Shuichi to not give up and lose hope.

During their Free Time Events, the two got along quite well. Tsumugi would tell Shuichi about what it means to be a cosplayer, how much time and work goes into it, and how she became interested in cosplay in the first place. In the end, Tsumugi believes that Shuichi may have developed an interest in cosplay through their interactions and encourages him to try any costume of his choosing, believing he would look good in just about anything. As they listed off ideas, Tsumugi coincidentally listed off White Kanata as a costume he would look good in, which just so happened to be his favorite hero. Tsumugi became ecstatic upon realizing that she and he shared similar interests, as her friend who got her into cosplay in the first place also dressed as White Kanata. She grabbed his hand and flailed it up and down wildly, but became embarrassed when she realized they were holding hands, apologized, and let go, hinting at some sort of mutual attraction. In the end, Shuichi agreed to go to a con with her and try cosplaying out just once, mentally thinking to himself that they had become true friends. 

However, given Tsumugi's role as the Mastermind of the Killing School Semester, and her highly deceptive nature, it is unclear just how genuine this friendship is or if it was ever genuine at all.

In the Love Suite scene, Shuichi had a role of being Tsumugi's step brother. Shuichi was surprised when Tsumugi said that she likes him not as a brother. Tsumugi felt uneasy when Shuichi did not call her by her first name. She felt negative and asked Shuichi to encourage her by placing his hand on her cheek and she did to his cheek which he felt embarrassed about. Shuichi realized that they were acting like an actual couple but Tsumugi despite the fact of Shuichi not becoming her lover. In the end, Tsumugi told Shuichi that he loves her and it was implied that they had sex afterward.

Gonta 
Throughout the game, Tsumugi seems to have a soft spot for Gonta and often appears to pay attention to him during some moments when the others do not. She is quite impressed and concerned about how blunt and honest Gonta is.

During Chapter 4's trial, she appeared sympathetic towards Gonta who was very confused about the virtual world, and wished to explain it to him. She also tirelessly tried to protect Gonta from being accused as Miu Iruma's killer, convinced that he is a kind soul who doesn't even kill bugs. She was shocked and saddened to find out that Gonta really is the culprit. She was especially shocked by Gonta's immense kindness after he forgave Kokichi and told the others not to blame him, and she stated that he truly is stupid sometimes, for being so kind and forgiving even in such situation. She cried heavily before and after Gonta's execution.

In Chapter 5, Tsumugi stays outside one night, looking at the stars and reminiscing what Gonta said earlier about starts being very comforting, even though the starts above the academy appeared different than usual.

As she is later revealed to be the mastermind, it's indicated that Tsumugi only acted to play this specific role assigned to her during the Killing Game.

Rantaro 
Tsumugi grows a strong hatred for Rantaro, calling him an edgy normie, and feels disgusted by his actions.

In the nails painting scene, Tsumugi watched the two of her friends, Kaede and Rantaro, having a scene together of Rantaro painting Kaede's nails and Tsumugi watched silently while becoming disgusted and tried to hide her hatred from Rantaro trying to interrupt them by offering to paint Kaede's nails. Tsumugi said that Rantaro should have blown up forever since he was being a total normie.

It was later revealed in Chapter 6 that Tsumugi was the one who killed Rantaro and framed Kaede for the incident. Tsumugi didn't want Rantaro to discover the secret and exposed of her being the Mastermind. She was aware that Rantaro, guided by his talent would be in her way and cause trouble along with Kaede who was able to unify everyone's heart, so she decided to kill both of them in the same case. Tsumugi stopped Rantaro by killing him from behind and hid the ball that Kaede rolled down the vent.

Kaede 
Initially thought to be a life-sized doll, Kaede didn't expect that Tsumugi has the title of the Ultimate Cosplayer due to her normal-looking appearance. She states that she could felt some sort of "pheromones" that can't stop from falling of Tsumugi because she was out of costume.Tsumugi offered Kaede to paint her nails which resulted in Rantaro interrupting Kaede's appointment with her. It is later revealed that Tsumugi actually holds no friendship towards Kaede. In Chapter 1, Tsumugi had figured out Kaede's plan and when she discovered that Kaede's plan failed, Tsumugi decided to kill Rantaro herself to prevent everyone else from being executed. Because of this, Tsumugi framed Kaede for the action and executed her as well.

Korekiyo 
In the first Class Trial, Korekiyo seems to be the only one who gets suspicious of Tsumugi because of her alibi. He stated how she took too long in the restroom which nobody believed him and Tsumugi denied that fact of being suspicious.

After Korekiyo was executed, Tsumugi seemed frightened and devastated by his brutal death. Though it should be noted that this is only one of her act as the mastermind of the Killing Game.

Kirumi 
Prior to the second class trial, the two did not interact much at all. Though Tsumugi did point out how everyone was pushing their own work on Kirumi without even taking her feelings into consideration. After Ryoma had been eaten by piranha's, a distraught Tsumugi is shown being comforted by Kirumi during the closing argument of second-class trial.

During Chapter 3, Tsumugi at some point stay's she's glad that she was just an average citizen and that if she ever had a will to live as strong as Kirumi's that she would just cower in a corner somewhere, unable to bear the responsibility.

In Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version), Tsumugi thinks that Kirumi's work as a maid is super cute.

Himiko 
Tsumugi seems to be one of the people among the students that responded to Himiko's saying as a mage. When Himiko states that she ran out of MP during the demo class trial, Tsumugi suggested her to sleep at the inn for one night in order to restore her MP.

Team Danganronpa:
Tsumugi is a member of the organization that created the Killing Games, Team Danganronpa, and she's a fan of the TV show. She acts as the Mastermind behind the 53rd season of Danganronpa, as she volunteered to participate in this killing game as part of Team Danganronpa.

K1-B0
In the beginning, these two didn't interact that much and act like they barely knew each other.

In Chapter 6, it was shown that Tsumugi and K1-B0 were in the same affiliation, Team Danganronpa. Tsumugi treated K1-B0 like a toy and even bullies him for his actions in the trial. They officially became enemies when K1-B0 believed in hope and Tsumugi cared about the show. When nobody casts their votes, Tsumugi trusted K1-B0 to execute her along with Monokuma as well. K1-B0 holds no hesitation to do that task since he was mad when she killed their friends and started the killing game with no hope. In the end, he destroyed everything and betrayed her by leaving the survivors alive as he sacrificed his own life.


Tsumugi and Monokuma are members of Team Danganronpa and both of them worked together in the latest season of the Danganronpa season.

Tsumugi and Monokuma don't interact with each other that much, this could be to hide the fact that they both work for Team Danganronpa and usually act as they know each other.

Monokuma executed Kaede in order to protect her from the students to clear out her suspicions on her as the Mastermind.

In Chapter 6, Monokuma and his children try to refute Shuichi Saihara from discovering the truth behind her as the mastermind of the Killing Game. At the end of the last Trial, both of them are seen waving their hands as both get crushed by a giant boulder and die together.

In Ultimate Development Plan, Tsumugi and Monokuma are seen to have a good relationship as they are interacting well and report to each other about the plans at the festival.

Hope's Peak Academy Students:
Junko 
Tsumugi idolizes Junko to a great degree. Junko is Tsumugi's favorite character in Danganronpa series that she loves. She felt inspired by Junko as her idea of bringing despair is one of the many reasons why Tsumugi has passion and love for that show. As the Mastermind of Killing Games in Danganronpa, she tried her best to become an imitation of Junko as she stated before she was executed in the final Class Trial.

In the bonus mode, states that Junko is a sparkling character to cosplay as. Junko commends her devotion to dressing as others and wishes her sister had the same devotion.

Free 
Main article, including full dialogue: Free Time Events/Tsumugi Shirogane, Hotel Kumasutra#Tsumugi Shirogane

Tsumugi Pixel Head Icon
Tsumugi Shirogane
Loves:	050. Prop Carrying Case, 051. Japanese Doll Wig, 052. Photoshop Software, 053. Sewing Kit, 075. Steel Glasses Case, 130. Key of Love
Likes:	003. Ginger Tea, 004. Cleopatra's Pearl Cocktail, 005. Non-Alcoholic Drink of Immortality, 009. Astro Cake, 012. Greek Yogurt, 017. Gyoza In the Shape of a Face, 019. Crystal Bangle, 020. Striped Necktie, 021. Bondage Boots, 023. Workout Clothes, 025. Autumn-Colored Scarf, 027. Cheer Coat Uniform, 028. Nail Brush, 030. Beret, 031. Ladybug Brooch, 032. Cufflinks, 033. Dog Tag, 034. White Robot Mustache, 035. Book of the Blackened, 043. Stainless Tray, 045. High-End Headphones, 048. Illusion Rod, 049. Hand Mirror, 054. Flame Thunder, 056. Indigo Hakama, 057. Fashionable Glasses, 064. Sketchbook, 069. Potted Banyan Tree, 072. Work Chair Of Doom, 077. Clock-Shaped Gaming Console, 081. Jelly Balls, 084. Semazen Doll, 085. Weathercock of Barcelous, 091. Space Egg, 094. Helping Yacchi, 095. Home Planet, 099. Cleansing Air Freshener, 101. Marigold Seeds, 102. Rock-Paper-Scissors Cards, 103. Perfect Laser Gun, 104. Someone's Student ID, 106. Dangan Werewolf, 111. Gun of Man's Passion, 112. Pure-White Practice Sword

DRV3ReferencesExtra
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version) (English)

"Oh, my name is Tsumugi Shirogane. I'm the Ultimate Cosplayer. Are you... surprised? I get that a lot, since I'm so plain."
" I'd rather wear my outfits myself, with love, than give them to such people."
"It makes me happy when I get to show people the outfits I've made."
"That's right. If we give up now, the class trial will end."
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (English)

Prologue:

"Being all depressed won't help anything."
Chapter 1:

"Yeah...Can I just go and think by myself for a little? It's a shame I won't be able to hide all my 'special' art commissions before I die...*sigh* Or that 'special' pillowcase I bought...What should I do...?"
Chapter 2:

"I don't know how just yet, but like Kaede said... Let's survive...and escape this place, no matter what."
"Huh? Well, I'm investigating. I know I'm plain, but it's plain to see I'm investigating."
"But, I think leaving that guy alone is just plain bad... So I've decided to plainly keep an eye on him. That way, even plain old me can help out."
Chapter 3:

"But...I'm glad I'm an average citizen. If I ever had a reason to live as strong as Kirumi's... Or if I ever lost everything important to me like Ryoma did... If anything like that happened, I probably would've just cowered in a corner somewhere. Putting aside whether what Kirumi or Ryoma did was right or wrong... I think it's amazing they were even able to do anything at all. For people like them to die in this place... It's just not fair!"
"Umm...I don't understand at all. My plain mind has hit its limit."
"You're right. Tenko would want us to figure it out so she'd have no regrets... That...would be the best way to apologize."
"But...there's one thing this case taught me. I thought there was a god watching over us, but... There isn't after all... Not in this academy..."
Chapter 4:

"But it's just like Himiko said. Those of us left need to look to the future and live. For all the others' sakes."
"I still don't get that stuff with his sister or why he killed Angie and Tenko... But Kiyo really was an excellent Ultimate Anthropologist."
"Yeah, I think it's just plain fun to become fictional characters. To become a completely different person and feel like you're part of a different world... Doesn't that sound interesting? Don't you want to live in a fictional world?"
"However, even if you're just trying it out, you gotta cosplay with love!"
"Sorry, Shuichi... It's my fault you got plain paired with me. But everybody knows that the plain pair is just plain dangerous!"
"Gonta is telling the truth! He's not someone who lies all the time like you!"
"I believe you. You've been risking yourself to protect everyone."
"There's no way Gonta would kill! He won't even kill bugs!"
Chapter 5:

"Alright. I'm just going to stop worrying about it. We need to live for Gonta and everyone else...and escape this place."
"I'd forgotten this feeling... With all the horrible things happening... I was always looking down... ...I need to thank Gonta."
"I also...don't want to survive with someone who'd do such a thing to Gonta."
"We're the students of the new Hope's Peak Academy, the rebuilt as the symbol of hope... If we—the students of Hope's Peak—give up, the world really will be plunged into despair! I got it! In the end, it's all about willpower! I'm gonna live till the end and never give up!"
"But we can't die here. We decided...to live for hope."
"We can't afford to lose to despair!"
Chapter 6:

"You're right... There's no point complaining. Let's all just do what we can."
"Hey, Shuichi! Let's find them no matter what and end the killing game for good! And then...let's finally fulfill that promise we all made. There's a lot of us missing now, but it's not too late."
"W-We were going to work together... We promised to become friends..."
"If you're not confident enough to do it, then you don't need to force yourself..."
"Lies are just like snowballs. The more you roll them, the bigger they get. The bigger they are, the more fun and shocking it is when they're revealed. That's why everything up till now has been lies! That's the truth!"
"Even though Kaito and Kokichi were gone, and Keebo started to go berserk... You guys didn't give up hope. You decided to face this killing game, right?"
"Well, if you're going to call fiction a lie...then yes. Everything in this world has a writing . All our words and actions... ...are just a bunch of lies."
"Every single thing that has happened in this killing game... ...is a lie!"
"Weren't you going to ruin the Class Trial and end the killing games? Go ahead and stop it if you can! Try and stop a world obsessed with it!"
"No matter how much you grow, Shuichi, you're still weak after all... Now that you know it's all lies, you've gone back to the weak Ultimate Detective... Ahahahaha! This pleases us! It is a despair fit for Danganronpa!"
"Well, if I can get someone like you to fall into despair, that'd be a great ending."
"That's right! This is a story that ends with despair!"
"It doesn't matter what you do. No matter what a fictional character does or says, it's just fiction to the outside world."
"Cuz if none of you vote and I do, then I'll be the only one who survives! Doesn't that sound exactly like something the big bad mastermind would come up with?"
"As long as the world wants killing games, Danganronpa will not end!"
"They don't want this kind of ending! They want the killing games to continue! That...is the outside world's...decision!"
"So it doesn't matter how much you fight. You can't change the outside world. Cuz the outside world still wants Danganronpa! That won't change! So do you still want to throw your lives away? Even if it changes nothing?"
"But this is the end. The outside world rejects your decision. So no matter how you use your lives, it won't change anything."
"You're going to throw your lives away...for those who have died? You fought to survive this killing game! If you die now, it's all over!"
"They all love the killing games! They can't get enough Danganronpa!"
"The outside world won't let Danganronpa end. Everyone...loves Danganronpa... That's reality! Killing game entertainment will continue forever!"
"That's not it. We're friends, aren't we? There's no way I'd abandon you guys. Puhuhu... I turned over a new leaf. I'm not lying. It's the truth."
"It's fine, cuz this is all fiction. Maybe it's a bit forced...but that's fiction for you, right?"
"If you guys are willing to die to stop the killing game, I'll die to continue it. Even if it's just fiction, I gave my life to make it. I've given my life...to Danganronpa."
"Hope has won but the lone survivor, Keebo, remains trapped... Now he'll challenge the killing game anew. Will he able to grasp true hope...? Yeah, an ending like that can work, right?"
"Hold on! I-Is that...really okay!? Danganronpa is going to end? The killing game full of tense standoffs and backstabbings among friends... It's just going to abruptly end with season 53? Is that really okay?"
"Well, that's fine... If this is a world without killing games now... I don't want to be a part of it. I have no interest in a world without Danganronpa."
"My plan was such a flawless copy, it even failed right at the end... So I should be able to hold my head up high as a cosplaycat criminal, right?"
As her Cosplay:

"The killing game will never end... Never ever! As long as I'm around, it'll never end. It'll repeat over and over and over... Why would I let something this fun ever end? I want to have more fun. As long as it's fun, we have to keep doing it. That's just simple supply and demand. Puhuhuhuhu... Puhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhu. Such...despair" (As Junko)
"The diva of despair takes the stage once more! Junko Enoshima the 53rd!" (As Junko)
"New mysteries and truths turn to motivation. Motivation drives a story. Everything from the Flashback Lights was just motivation to move you forward. Buuut...I guess it was fake motivation." (As Junko)
"Remembering the weight of that hope should've made you feel stronger. "I have to escape!" "I'll never give up!" "I won't be defeated by the mastermind!" (As Junko)
"This is a killing game. A death game where emotions run like blood. If the participants aren't trying their best to live, it's just not very exciting." (As Junko)
"All the people in this peaceful world are straight-up crazy for this killing game!" (As Genocide Jack)
"Did you forget what season of Danganronpa this is? You guys are dumber than ants." (As Hiyoko)
"It's not strange at all that you'd want to be a part of the show you love." (As Sayaka)
"It's times like these you need to look to your friends for support. However, all your friends are fictional, too." (As Makoto and Hifumi)
"This is fiction. There is no greater meaning. No greater meaning to death. no greater meaning to life. It's all fiction. There's no meaning to be found in any of it." (As Hajime and Izuru)
"It will be troublesome for us if you don't despair under our rule!" (As Junko)
"Danganronpa's all about despair! The reason this killing game's so popular... Why it's gone on for 53 seasons... That reason is despair. Viewers flock to see your despair. That's why all those people out there look sooo happy! See!?" (As Junko)
"If the audience surrogate falls into despair, then the audience does, too. By making you fall into despair, I can make the entire world fall into despair! My despair will turn from fiction to fact and destroy reality itself. Puhuhu... Isn't that just the most delightful despair?" (As Junko)
"What could be more horrible than a fictional despair eroding the real world?" (As Nagito)
"No one could've imagined an end this hopeless." (As Junko)
"I already fuckin' told ya! The outside world only wants despair!" (As Junko)
"There's no way to spread hope to an audience that watches killing games." (As Kyoko)
"Ugh, how annoying. Hope? That's not popular..." (As Junko)
"Silence! Weep not over spilt milk!" (As Sonia to K1-B0)
"In order for hope to win, there needs to be one more sacrifice. Shuichi, Maki, and Himiko. One of them has to sacrifice themselves... ...or hope can't win." (As Makoto)
"Do you got the guts to make such a heartless choice?" (As Ibuki)
"Do you understand now? Even if you choose hope, you will still suffer." (As Sonia)
"You don't need to choose the hard way. No one expects you guys to do that." (As Kyoko)
"Yeah! There'll be no more killing, so let's just all stay here together!" (As Aoi)
"There's no reason to go outside. Let's just stay here together." (As Hiyoko)
"The final vote! It's all gonna end here! You and your shitty hope!" (As Junko)
"After all, even if despair wins, the killing game still won't end." (As Nagito)
"You can't throw away your futures!" (As Hajime)
"Hope is contagious!" (As Makoto Naegi)
"Y-You've been fighting so h-hard to survive, but now you're gonna g-give up?" (As Toko)
"Such foolishness! To cast your life away is the height of stupidity!" (As Gundham)
"Choose to death is the blaspheme against life itself!" (As Gundham)
"Wh-What?! Suicide is suicide, no matter what your r-reason is!" (As Toko)
List of Appearances 
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony (Demo Version)
Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony

When she framed Kaede for Rantaro's murder, it was similar to when Junko tried to frame Kyoko Kirigiri for Mukuro Ikusaba's death, but unlike Junko, Tsumugi's plot succeeded.
Her death is similar to Junko Enoshima's, which includes Junko's signature waving (while cosplaying as Junko) and then she and Monokuma being crushed to death.
The only character from the first two games that Tsumugi does not cosplay as is Mukuro Ikusaba disguised as Junko Enoshima. However, "Junko"'s white bear-patterned tie is one of the pieces of clothing circling her, and Class Trial mugshots for her can be found in the files.
In her promotional art, Tsumugi owns a wig that is a reference to Hatsune Miku, a popular singing synthesizer.
Including her cosplays, Tsumugi has the most sprites out of any character in any of the games.
Tsumugi shares her English voice actress, Dorothy Elias-Fahn, with Sayaka Maizono, Chihiro Fujisaki, and Alter Ego in the Danganronpa series.
In a poll hosted by MyNavi, fans voted Tsumugi the least popular Danganronpa V3 student.
Japanese gaming magazine Dengeki from April 27th, 2017 to May 22nd, 2017 held two popularity polls, one that was voted electronically and the other via post cards. Tsumugi was voted the least popular student in the electronic poll, and 10th through post cards.
