
Character Discussion #1 - Yasuhiro Hagakure (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Yasuhiro Hagakure

Talent: Clairvoyant

Game: Danganronpa Trigger Happy Havoc

Status: Alive, Future Foundation Member

Notable Roles:

Crystal Ball used as evidence in Ch 1

Framed for murder in Ch 3

Assault on Sakura Ogami in Ch 4

Notebook used to prove vital point in Finale

Arrived in Towa City as a member of Future Foundation

Planned appearance in the DR3 anime

Discuss anything pertaining Yasuhiro Hagakure, the Ultimate Clairvoyant!

How character order will be determined:

I've opted for a completely random list over a voting for the next character, to give less popular characters that some people might adore an equal chance to discuss their personal favorites. Using random.org the list came out as this
If anyone has any major problems with how this works, let me know. I included the main characters across the 2 games + spin off, and left out characters from novels / minimal impact. If you feel I skimmed over a character that warrants discussion, state who and why. Reverse is true, if you feel a character doesn't warrant discussion.

I'm also open to feedback on formatting, do you just want the thread made, is it better to have a short list of what said character has done, etc?

I really like Yasuhiro. He definitely grew on me over time. He's a bit weird at first, spouting nonsense and being generally unimpressive. It's still a question how he's even considered an Ultimate with only a 30% accuracy. (I thought maybe the explanation was that he wasn't an Ultimate at all, since he snuck into the high school?)

I enjoyed his crazy version of reality, and genuinely had a laughing fit when he told the story about the 100% beef hamburgers. Really, there isn't much depth to him as a character, but he plays his role of comic relief quite well. I'm excited to see where they take him in the new anime.

Also "naps" together.

Kuwata and Souda are together... This must mean Bubblegum Rock, one of the best ships in Dangan Ronpa, is canon!

I liked Hagakure when I first watched a playthrough of Dangan Ronpa. Though he was largely a comic relief character and I didn't expect him to survive, I don't see why people hate him so much.

A lot of people don't like him for the sole reason him being a survivor whilst their favourite character like Ishimaru or Chihiro died. When he had no character development whatsoever and was just comic-relief.

Not a big fan of the guy and I would have preferred to have Ishimaru survive over him, but hey, being a character with only comic relief on the table opens up to development.

Would love to see him in the new anime alongside Kanon ;)

This, it still hurts that Ishimaru is dead :( Would've loved to see him with Future Foundation but then would he be able to part with his snazzy white uniform?

With such a low opinion of Hagakure my opinion can really only go up of him with the anime. Hopefully.

Not exactly starting with a bang. He was too unsympathetic for me. They set him up to be kind of your wacky bud early on, but he's so utterly selfish and devoid of good traits. Maybe I'd have liked him more if I wasn't waiting on a reveal that would never come.

If I may contribute some other things as well (and feel free to pick what I have to say apart, as I might be wrong on certain things. Or they might be irrelevant for what you need): Edit: I had problems formatting the text with the dialogue between him and Touko. If anyone could sent me a message for getting the quotes separate, I'd appreciate it. Orz

He, from my understanding, is the only character that at the very least, bothers to try to console Ishimaru in both the anime and the game. Naegi is unable to speak (if I recall correctly) to Ishimaru after Mondo's execution in the game, but no one else bothers to try and console Ishimaru except Yasuhiro (calling him chairman, etc). I'm pretty sure Naegi would have gone to Ishimaru if he could have, though.
The dialogue between him and Touko shows he is a bit of an equal opportunist; at first, he's not very keen on her, evidenced by the punch to the stomach comment and the lawsuits. And then he attempts to push the blame of Sakura's death on her. There's a line or two which gets me a bit mixed up, but I'm a little more familiar with Oren's translations on pages ~218-220.  
Touko: Impossible... The balance of weight is no good... It's difficult to get an effective strike like that... Do you want me to... demonstrate it to you...?   Yasuhiro: You're just going to pretend to make a mistake and hit me with the blade instead, 'right?   Touko: And then... I'll pick up your filthy brain tissue and throw it on the floor and spit on it...!  

In the NISA version, I think he says he wanted her to die(?). I'm not sure. However, at some point, he does try to get people to be nice to her, reminding people of "her weird family life" and how that's affected her. He's also the one who gets Touko to say that she never ate with anyone, and asks if she's okay with Togami treating her like garbage when the discovery of the knife is found after Sakura's death.

In one translation of IF, Yasuhiro gives Naegi to the Yakuza(?) or his debtors for payment. I think in another version, Naegi wound up getting caught in his business.
In the anime and the game, he pulls off a trick to give Naegi the message about AE. This may be dampened by the fact that Monokuma had the upper hand in that situation, but that sleight of hand right there is what helps Naegi.
There's him dying in the demo, killed by Hifumi.
Though it's not stated outright, when he's mentioning the fortune-teller community, he might be speaking about The Bureau of Onmyo. Could also explain his high prices, because onmyoji were court diviners. But he is a court diviner with no court, so feel free to throw this right out the window and attribute his prices to him grabbing at money. He does say it's his favorite thing in ZZH/UDH, after all.
On the note of his profession, onmyoji were AAALLL up in the occult, but they did other things too. They also dealt with ghosts as well, but Yasuhiro is totally against it. Wonder what happened in his life for that to be the case.
He also demonstrates some kind of prowess with electrical equipment: the computer in the library, his help in dismantling the Monokuma, the television feed, and the train in ZZH/UDH.
There is the comment he makes about Togami's insecurities(in one translation, shyness, I think?) and Togami is either too fed up with him to say nothing to counter it, or he could be right on the money after Sakura's trial. Not a lot of things rattle Togami, too.
Unsolicited love advice from him to Naegi about Kyouko, though.
When referring to the chickens, he's correct on a mathematical level. 5 is a natural number, and considered pretty important in Japan.
He does try to lead the morning meetings. Doesn't go so well when challenged and folds like a deck of tarot cards. Not to mention his cowardice in the last trial when speaking to Junko.
With Chihiro's murder, it's up in the air whether or not he was lying to get out of examining the body on the grounds of religion or if he just didn't want to be there at all. In Shintoism and a few other religions, purity is stressed, and death is in the general ball-park of "unclean". For someone to be in a cesspool of death and being Shinto, the mutual killings would be their worst nightmare. Yasuhiro isn't exactly all that holy, though...
Yasuhiro IS without a doubt, one of the most selfish and tactless characters, but he does show some heart. Not enough for a lot of people to see him as sympathetic, though, and that's perfectly understandable. He didn't have to save Kanon, he didn't have to try to talk to Ishimaru or be nice at all. Seems like he was brought up in a harsh environment, but some of this could also be shaped by his own choices and actions. The guy talks like he has no friends, and so that's been the case in his free time events. I might be looking too much into him, but there were some other things that I take him into account as well:

* His world literally going up in flames due to his father's being negligent with his father's cigarette.  

His mother divorcing his father.  

And his lonely childhood (which, again, may have had some doing with his own selfishness and other negative character traits).  

His mother working late nights (on her kill card), so she was probably sleeping quite a bit through the day and couldn't give him the time she wanted.

Would anyone suppose that some of those factors may have caused delays/impairments in his growth and development as a child? I'm not going to say he's got a disorder, as I don't feel that's correct or appropriate. I do wonder, however, if Yasuhiro was very late in developing beneficial coping mechanisms (such as humor) to deal with any trauma or neglect he endured one way or the other. Some people do laugh because they're in pain, you know, and he didn't have much in the way of social support to begin with.

Some fridge horror/logic to consider: Haruspicy is divining through the use of entrails, such as the liver. And what does Yasuhiro ask of Naegi in his free time events? ;} Just putting that out there.

[S]I thought Hiro was silly fun, he had the wackiest and hilarious hairstyle across both games and I always imagined how anyone would sit behind him in class.

He didn't really do much but he didn't have to, he was there to allow the game to more organically explain things to us, relieve tension, and make it so a cast of high schoolers wasn't full of ultra geniuses on par with Einstein.

Hopefully he gets more to do in the anime. There was one occasion in DR1 where he took responsibility, forgive me for not being able to remember the exact circumstances but it was in the cafeteria I know. Also glad the hair is being tied back, that helps make him a bit less ridiculous. Not that I don't like the ridiculousness, but I think showing he can be serious will help people like him more.

I also hope he runs into Kuzuryuu at some point because that would be hilarious

There are two instances that match what I think you're talking about.

One is when he decides to try and lead the daily meeting because that was when Ishimaru was too depressed to function, but it didn't really go anywhere.

I think there was another where he wrote the notes and instructed everyone go to the bath house, but I think someone told him to do that. I can't remember.

Yeah, that first one is it!

It doesn't go anywhere, no, but the fact that he tried at all is really important I think.

I think that was Kirigiri who told him to do that :D

I wonder if Kuzu would even care about his debt anymore.

God no, which is why it'd be hilarious. He would definitely know who Hagakure was though, I mean, it was related to his sister. "Wait, you're still worrying about that? The hell are your priorities, man?"

Sure, he is not a very smart person, but I liked him a lot! His hairstyle was one of the best things about him in my opinion, and I'm glad that he survived the first game.

I've always been kinda neutral in regards to Hagakure. Although a lot of people make the whole "Souda is the SDR2 version of Hagakure." At least Souda cared and had a useful talent. I was excited at first because I thought the idea of something like a clairvoyant would be a neat add on to the game. As the first game went on, his talent was useless and the only time it ever came in handy was whenever the whole first trial business happened. I tried to like him during trial 3 but everything that happened in 4 shattered the little bit of empathy I had for him. He was concerned about him first. I'm hoping that maybe if he has some more character development in DR3 and we get to see some interaction between him and Kuzu. Alas, I'm actually pretty fond of his character design for the anime and Ultra Despair Hagakure wasn't awful or anything, I really liked Kanon.

I still stand that Kazuichi is more like Toko Fukawa than Hagakure. He takes a few traits from Hagakure, but is overall a much better person and character. He's not a selfish douche, he's incredibly helpful for most of the game.

Good guy Kazuichi.

Other than his stalkerish tendencies, Souda is a fun character.

As much as I dislike Souda, he's got some of the best sprites in game

I saw Akane as the second game`s Yasuhiro, I don`t see him as Kazuichi at all.

People usually tend to hate Hagakure for some reason or another, but he's mostly inoffensive. Sure, he's stupid, but the game would lose a lot of the feel if it was just Byakuya, Makoto, and Kyouko debating near the end. It'd be a lot more boring.

I didn't really find him interesting. All I took from him was that he was just a selfish piece of shit that gets to keep surviving. A character like Fukawa I felt had a good starting base in DR 1 and they chose to expand more on it in Another Episode.

Hagakure...he's still even more of a selfish person in his spinoff. By chapter 3 of the game, I felt like "man, I just wish there was at least one guy I give a shit about."

Byakuya was a prick, Hagakure was a selfish douche, Hifumi was an annoying perv, and the only guy left I liked by that point, Ishimaru, was still down about having lost his brothers and then got killed himself. I dunno. I really didn't care for Hagakure. I understand the idea of Ishimaru having mistakingly thought he killed Sakura wouldn't fit the theme of the trial as well, but still.

I didn't mind him at first, but his behavior in trial 4 made me lose a lot of respect for him, since he was clearly incredibly selfish even after he found out he wasn't the killer. "well, that's good" was his reaction and he still didn't care about Sakura dying.

Fucking hagakure.

Some people make the argument that Hagakure's stupidity unearths contradictions for everyone to pick up on, but I strongly disagree. He just holds up the trials, wasn't interesting outside the trials, and I will stand that Hagakure only survived because they needed a character for incorrect statements for the player to shoot down regularly because they hadn't implemented the consent system introduced in DR 2.

What did you think of Chihiro? He was my favorite.

He wasn't one of my favorite characters, but I had nothing against him.

All I took from him was that he was just a selfish piece of shit that gets to keep surviving.

I thought we were talking about Hagakure, not Togami.

(I know, I know. I'm looking forward to Togami's discussion so I can rip him a new one.)

Togami is too, but Hagakure is the one who faked being sick so he can go around and steal from people or places to pay for his own debt.

He's beyond selfish.

Wow. I actually didn't know that about him. That's horrible. That put a major dent into my opinion of him.

It's in his spinoff, ultra despair hagakure.

Additionally, he charges outrageously high fees for his readings, has money himself, but has no problem trying to get more from people. He also had one instance where he held this girl's purse for her while she went off to use the bathroom.

His first thought is "let me check this for cash I can barrow." That's ignoring the fact that the only reason he was with her was because her dad was loaded and he was trying to take credit for helping her so he'd get a money reward and pay off his debt.

This was before he was trying to steal things from Towa city to try and pay it off by pawning it.

I was not a huge fan of him at first, but after unlocking his full report card, I'd say... I'll never go to that seminar with him. It's interesting to have a character that we (as Naegi) are openly wary about for reasons completely unrelated to the killing school life. He lightens up the atmosphere, which is nice, but it's hard for me to be a big fan of a character when I find myself irl saying aloud, "Hiro, just shut up already."

I personally didn't think much of Hiro at first. He was just that one dumb comic relief character who would probably die off really quickly, so I never gave him any thought. As the game progressed, he started becoming a bit more noticable, but I was still kind of neutral on him. By the end of the game, I really had no opinion on him besides "Huh, he had his moments. Wish so and so lived instead, but Ok." The fandom is kinda what shaped my opinion on him, which can either be good or bad. Everyone headcannons he smokes weed, which while I personally doubt, its a fun headcannon. I personally think his design for the anime is great, hope I can build my own opinion on him when the anime aires. TL;DR He's a chill dude I didn't really care about, and I wanna see more about him in the anime.

He's extremely underrated. Pretty funny at times, but definitely could have done with some actual development and screentime. Hopefully his appearance in the new anime expands on him.

I'm kind of neutral on Hagakure. I don't like him that much but I don't absolutely hate him either. At least some of his predictions came true. (he predicted that there wouldn't be another murder after trial 3, and also predicted that him and Naegi would share a baby mama, which happened in the bad ending so I'm gonna count it)

He is pretty damn selfish though, so there's that.

He is the survivors' punching bag and the one to pin the murder on. His ridiculous excuses added some spice to the trials but otherwise he didn;t add much.

Since I love crack theories, I'll analyze him with that... Run-on sentences ahoy!

Hagakure is comic relief and he knows it, as seen in Ultra Despair Hagakure. This could imply something interesting: What if Hagakure is aware he's in a fictional setting? Maybe he says dumb nonsequitors because he thinks it's his purpose, and he knows adding more depth to it is a quick way to get killed, just look who else survived with him: rich jerk, optimist, crazy shut-in, and an athletic airhead. Not exactly breaking the molds there, unlike most of the DR2 cast or the guys who died, such as a female brawler who was coerced into servitude with her family's dojo and a biker racked with guilt over his dead brother.

Alternatively, a marginally less insane explanation is that he's not quite right in the head. Having seen visions all his life that come true relatively often may have affected his outlook on life, perhaps he even has trouble distinguishing reality from his thoughts. We know he's got skewed priorities, he's still worried about a debt when he's trapped in a school for (what he believes) will be the rest of his life, and even after learning it's a post-apocalypse outside. He also charges exorbitant fees for something that has no cost to him and only has a 30% chance of being correct.

He is self aware though, as I mentioned above he knows he's comic relief, but he also knows he's no hero. It's not just being cowardly, though he will gladly run from a fight (as seen in UDH again, getting some mileage out of that), he also has trouble believing others (Really? Kyoko's a ghost?) and connecting to the other students, as seen in his not having any friends. He is no hero by any measure, but he does occasionally bump the cases in the right direction so I wouldn't say he's the worst.

As far as formatting goes, how often will these pages be put up? I assume it's about once a week but I'd like to make sure...

Also, once we have more than 1 it would be nice to have an index of the character discussions, though that seems like something that would be on the to-do list.

I like the overview, it helps remember what all they've done if they were a character that doesn't see much limelight or the person posting just hasn't thought about the games in awhile.

[S] 
General consensus seems to be that weekly is fine, index isn't top of priorities since there isn't much to index now, maybe once there's a sizable amount.

He is my favourite character in the series (Souda is second)

People simply don't understand his character. He is simply neutral comic releif and he play his role perfectly.

His comment in the trials and his "deductions" are simply one of the most entertaining. I think that at one point, when Makoto say something dumb(when he fails at countering and get his HP drained as a result), he even says "Hey! It is me who is the dumbest one here!"

I think his main purpose in the story was for the player to always suspect him of being mastemind. Thats why he was never getting close to anyone and never was really helpfull to anyone. he was simply a red herring joker. I'm sure he will be more sympathethic and helpful in the new anime. But personally i already liked him in DR1 and the "bad ending" was just priceless.

Sometimes, you don't need character to sacrifice himself or to have some sappy "troubled past" conversation with him to really like him.

Hiro was selfish and cowardly but also funny and more of a "possible main character" in the story if Makoto never existed. And that would probably make the story more interesting than from point of view of a cute pushover teenage boy.

about
blog
about
advertising
careers
help
site rules
Reddit help center
wiki
reddiquette
mod guidelines
contact us
apps & tools
Reddit for iPhone
Reddit for Android
mobile website
buttons
<3
reddit gold
redditgifts
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy. © 2018 reddit inc. All rights reserved.

REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc.

π 


Character Discussion #3 - Usami (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Usami/Monomi

Talent: N/A

Game: DR2 Goodbye Despair

Status: Dead. Ish.

Notable Roles:

Is the 'teacher' to the cast of DR2

Overseer of the program before being beaten by Monokuma and losing power, becoming Monomi

Defeats the Monobeasts to open new islands

Beat up by Monokuma. A lot

Is with Nagito Komaeda in the Ch 4 Dead Room

Executed alongside Chiaki Nanami at the end of Ch 5

Comes back from the dead to finish off AI Junko

Discuss anything pertaining Usami/Monomi, the Teacher Who Tried?

Character Order for Discussions

I found her kind of annoying, but no big deal.

No, I didn't find her annoying because of the slapstick.

I just found it annoying that she'd have a problem with everyone trying to stop Nagito, mostly in chapter 5.

"No, you musn't fight with each other. Now just sit around as Nagito plans to murder all of you, blow you up, or something."

It seemed odd that she'd be genuinely afraid of him in chapter 4, look over the fact that he already caused two deaths, and is even more unsafe when he gets access to a bunch of deadly weapons...but let's get pissed at the other kids and their plan to tie him up and prevent a murder.

Well, technically Nagito's plan would've failed if they hadn't tried to grab him...

If his one real explosive hadn't gone off in plain view of everyone then panic wouldn't have driven them to search so hard for the others and he wouldn't have been able to set up his elaborate death.

Granted, he could've set up the explosive somewhere else and possibly still started the goose chase, but it would've been much harder to arrange.

Whether Nagito succeeded or not isn't the point. The fact that he's planning or attempting anything to begin with (and has had a history with it throughout the plot) should be enough for Usami to see that attempting to simply tie him up is justified by this point.

Nagito explicitly says Monokuma doesn't need a motive in chapter 5. He still had the intent of spurring a murder in chapter 1. The point isn't whether he's successful or not, but that he's actively driving forward killings and Usami seems to just completely overlook that and tell you that you shouldn't be fighting with your friend that already had one incident happen, is completely willing to side with a killer in class trials, or just indirectly told the group that he's planning to cause another incident.

I pity her more than anyone else, Usami got a really raw deal and she still rolls with it to the end. Even Mukuro, who died before the first trial for no reason, and Sakura who was essentially forced into suicide, got better deals than Usami/Monomi.

As an AI, and one programmed for nonviolence to boot, you would think she'd be one of the most trustworthy people in the game, but nobody trusts her except Chiaki. Not Naegi, willing to forgive a cabal of mass murderers and Junko Enoshima herself, but for Usami he left an out because he thought she would do something terrible to the students. Not even Chihiro/Alter Ego, the one who CREATED Usami, who decided not to build the server access into her personage, instead putting it in an external object which could be stolen or broken.

And then there's her bad luck. She has reality altering powers with her magic stick, but she loses it early when Monokuma ambushes her. From there she's a glorified punching bag until the end of each trial. Even her death in trial 5 is just Monokuma piling it on by putting all of her copies into the execution with Chiaki, more an afterthought than even the halfhearted "justice" of the trials could justify.

Her moments of awesomeness were mostly offscreen until the ending where she kills cyber-junko, but they must've been pretty impressive considering that the monobeasts were so imposing nobody else even tried fighting them (unlike Monokuma, for all fighting him was worth). And she's almost as forgiving as Naegi, trying to keep people from fighting even when one of them

[S]I mean, she was comedic relief 90% of the time so whatever. I always did find it somewhat unfair how the kids really hated her so much, after a bit it seemed unwarranted.

All I ask is please don't shove her into DRv3, I've had enough slapstick in one game.

I...really don't know. Honestly, I'm not sure I can look past how she seemed like the obvious distaff counterpoint that Monokuma that was in the sequel...because it was a sequel. She was tame, but just mostly annoying.

My main problem with her writing is her complete lack of intuition. She dodges so many questions, tells the kids off so many times, outright refuses to help at certain moments, even while under Monokuma's subjugation, but she insists that she is on their side every step of the way. Was anyone reasonably expected to believe that, least of all our main character?

And that's another thing. It's unclear how much her "magic stick" meant to her and how much power she possessed without it, but it seems to me that with enough willpower, she could have thwarted anyone. Grumble grumble.

Still, she had a few absolutely gold moments, whether it be Monokuma thrashing her about or one of her evasive dialogues containing an off-the-cuff reference.

I didn't have any problem with her dodging questions. From what we saw of chapter 6, that was most likely her not being able to answer questions at all simply because she was programmed that way.

Her magic stick was a representation of her authority as the observer of the Neo World program, so it makes sense that she couldn't really do much of anything without her abilities like editing privileges. She said (I think in chapter 4 or 5?) that she has no abilities without it and only has her ears to try and find where there might be trouble, and even if she finds it, there's not much she can do.

Future Foundation Note for Future Use:

"Give power to actual AI themselves not some stick that can be snapped if I tripped over it gdi Naegi"

I completely understand the students' disdain for her. She contributed little to the students' effort to escape and stop Monokuma and was usurped very quickly by Monokuma. They saw her as a distraction and little else.

[S]I mean, she knew it was a VR and she had lost her power, so there was no way for her to be able to help them escape. She tried her best with the Monobeasts, and she never held any ill will to any of the students.

I understand that, but to them they can't trust someone who wasn't helping them all that much. It was different with Nanami because she actually helped in the class trials

Character Discussion #4 - Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu

Talent: Yakuza

Game: DR2 Goodbye Despair

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Antagonistic towards group in Ch 1, refused to show up at Byakuya Togami's party

Motive in Chapter 2 targeted him

Tried to protect Peko Pekoyama due to past between them

First to try to interrupt an execution

Loss of an eye with a sweet eyepatch, attempt to mingle and befriend the group afterwards during Ch 3, generally helpful

Attempts to console and give advice to Akane Owari about dealing with loss and thank in Ch 4

Ruined Gundham Tanaka's alibi for murder when he remained in the lounge of the Funhouse in Ch 4, implied to be thinking about Peko Pekoyama

Discovered the bombs in Ch 5

Ties with Peko used as evidence and driving force behind his actions in Ch 6

Discuss anything pertaining Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu, the Ultimate Yakuza!

Character Order for Discussions

One of the few times we get a dynamic character in the danganronpa series. It was clear he was set up as a red herring to make an unfamiliar player think he was gonna be the antagonist character of the game, much like Byakuya was in the first title. However, after they get the point that Nagito is playing that role out the way, they took the time to move forward with Fuyuhiko and present someone who's flawed, genuinely trying to change, and a damn cool guy.

He's flawed, but still interesting. He's smart and helpful during the trials (seriously, go watch trial 5 again. He works wonderfully for digging up every single problem as the trial unfolds) but still falls victim to traps and holes and isn't perfect.

What does he do with Hajime? They become brothers. No surprise given that Hajime and Fuyuhiko's character draws a lot from Kiyotaka and Mondo respectively, and that there is the BroTP. I've mentioned several times before that I've got a soft spot for that kind of thing, so it definitely hit hard here.

He's definitely based a lot off of Mondo, which makes sense given the situation of chapter 2 and his insecurity stemming from one of his siblings being superior to him, but it works wonderfully. I said it with Mondo, but I have a really soft spot towards characters like that, who not only try to improve themselves, but go out of their way to reach out and support others. He not only slits open his stomach, but if you accuse him of being the killer in trial 3, he tells Monokuma to give him something to cut himself with. He's ready to do it again at any point.

He's also an inverted Byakuya and was shown to be willing to sacrifice the others and himself if it meant saving Peko's life since he ended up endangering her by her becoming the killer.

Another point to add is that in chapter 5, there's a bit of flavor text where you can go in the restaurant and see him looking at Mahiru's photos and was crying. He hadn't seen a photo of himself and Peko as equals, which is part of what moves him so much. What's more, he still states that he's going to properly mourn Mahiru's death, not just Peko's.

He's also the reason I got into this series in the first place, so he'll always be the ultimate bro character.

He's one of the finest characters Danganronpa has come up with.

[S]Just want to say that I do look forward to your comment each time, they're always in depth and even if I don't agree personally you explain very well and I can understand where you're coming from, they're great.

How did he draw you into the series? Did you just see really great fan art, because tbh as much as I like his design, it's not I must see this game levels design.

Thanks. I love that this community is doing something like this. I've mostly just been reposting or summarizing my thoughts in the character popularity polls, but it works from the situation.

I saw a short portion of chapter 5 with him and I just found the premise pretty cool, but I thought the series was about a group of detective children or something. I admit his design isn't mind blowing, but I'm still a sucker for the mafia.

[S]Yeah, his tie and eyepatch round out the look and give it his own personal flair.

Now you've got this idea in my head of Danganronpa: Scooby Doo Edition, with the lovable mascot Monokuma, geedarnit

I for one would love to have Nagito and Kazuichi as Scooby and Shaggy respectively.

That was amazing.
I also think of him as the Ultimate Bro.
What do you mean by "inverted Byakuya"?

What do you mean by "inverted Byakuya"?

A lot of his character was made to mirror a lot of both Mondo and Byakuya.

In trial 2 of both games, Byakuya and Fuyuhiko both go into the trial knowing who the culprit is. They also try to misdirect the trial and take control of things to place suspicion on themselves and get everyone to vote wrong. Granted, Byakuya plans on doing a fake out and not get himself killed, while Fuyuhiko was ready to die and do whatever it took to save Peko. The trial also involves a glasses wearing girl that is infatuated with both Byakuya and Fuyuhiko.

I say inverted because Byakuya framed Toko/Genocider in order to out her identity and prevent the possibility of her ever murdering him out of infatuation since it'd obviously be her, and Fuyuhiko tries to push for Hiyoko in order to get a wrong vote.

Additionally, it goes a bit into Mondo territory since the murder happened with Fuyuhiko going into a blind rage just like Mondo did. Only difference is that fuyuhiko's was intentional and Mondo had no intention of killing Chihiro, and Peko also stepped in at the last minute.

Additionally, Fuyuhiko acts the same way in trial 5 the way Byakuya does, since both of them pretty much take the lead in the discussion of the trial.

If anything, he's actually more of a backwards Ishimaru.

For example, Taka was originally a strict Moral Compass, trying to be helpful and make friends and such. Fuyuhiko was a tough Gangster, doing the exact opposite of Taka. The two were also both emotionally invested in the second trial, trying to save their friend from death. They even did the M.T.B/P.T.A instead of the actual killer. Sadly, the two fail.

One of the biggest parallels between the two would be in Chapter 3, where the two both change personalities. Taka becomes more loud and rude, while Fuyuhiko is more humble. The parallel would have continued if Fuyuhiko died, but the developers changed it because of Peko's sacrifice.

Although, I do agree with him taking elements from Byakuya. If Nagito wasn't the one leading the trials besides Chiaki and Hajime, I bet it would be Fuyuhiko instead.

I see your point, but the games take bits and pieces from multiple characters, so it fits with both.

I'd argue Hiyoko fits that role more, seeing that she also has a sibling character who dies in that chapter and immediately gets killed off after changing her personality a bit too.

He's literally my favorite character in this entire series. I love his backstory, I love his progression, I love how he's the first of my favorite characters to survive to the end of a series.

[S]The seeming torchrunner for new Byakuya tier asshole turns out to be one of the few with the biggest heart and probably changes the most through a game.

Favourite moment was seeing his smiling sprite in Dangan Island (it never occured during the game proper iirc), which was adorable and cute (not that you'd ever say that to his face).

I love him, to an extent. As a character, the bully, edgy character is usually annoying, but it's actually one of the cliches Danganronpa 2 needs from the outset, the atmosphere being a bit more bubblegum in its first chapter even after Monokuma strolls in. The fact that he is one of two characters in the series who says outright they have every intention to kill someone to win the game (the other being Byakuya) makes him an effective target for paranoia and makes him a great asshole.

Here's my "problem", as it were. If you don't count either the killing games or the activities the Remnants were doing, only a handful of characters have still got blood on their hands. Among them is Mukuro (unless she was doing MGS3-style tranquiliser only missions, we can infer she didn't get the title of Ultimate Soldier for nothing), Toko (Jack), and Fuyuhiko, who has canon killed Girl E from their days in Hope's Peak proper. And while there is a case to be made about how his amnesia and memory override can possibly absolve him, I'm not so sure. When he discovers this truth for himself in Twilight Syndrome, he still goes after Mahiru with little hesitation. What's wrong with this from a writing perspective? Well, technically nothing, but it says something that in both cases, his motivation is pretty much the same and that he shows no hesitation in doing either act shows he's one of the few characters outside of the designated villains that can kill with no remorse. And I know Peko was the one done in in Chapter 2, blah blah blah, but he still just went for it.

The fact is that his face turn only happens after he finally understands the meaning of loss; when he loses Peko. After that, he becomes a much more typical portrayal of a yakuza: bound by codes of honor, at least if the attempted seppuku is anything to go by, a mild sense of co-operative respect balance mixed with pride, and a lack of a vocal filter. His attachment to Peko is what elevates him beyond this and gives him his character. The argument between Peko being a tool of the yakuza and being an actual person at the end of Case 2 is friggin brilliant, and his attachment to her from then one makes far more sense and is far less annoying than, say, Kaz' attachment to Sonia.

And that's the conclusion. I do like that he has a real arc, with a real beginning, middle and end point, and he tangibly interracts with just about everyone in the game despite his stand-off-ish persona, but my problem with Fuyuhiko is that there's not enough external reaction to his character in the first two chapters. He killed Girl E many years in the past with little remorse, went straight for Mahiru in the same sort of manner, and openly admits several times that he has every intention of leaving the game by whatever means necessary. And the only thing that gets him to stop doing all of this is when something of his is finally taken away from him.

Now some would say this makes him a complete fucking tool even after the face turn. And I'm not one of them, but I wish there were more people who did than just the girl who squishes bugs for the lols.

EDIT: Also I love his visual design because I could probably cosplay him if I cut my hair and dye it. Yeah, I'm...pretty short.

[S]Hey, if you pull it off you can wear his sick-ass eyepatch! Guy knows how to look spiff.

Personally I felt it wasn't really a face turn for him, he was that kind of person but the household he was raised in plus his wish to live up to his position and appear tough created his Ch 1-2 persona. He lost his head and gave in to grief demanding answers referring to his confrontation with Mahiru, and when Peko dies it's more like he was more himself, but realized he'd have to show he meant it and went through such acts.

Just my take on it.

I love Fuyuhiko so much, he's my favorite male character. I honestly never expected to like him as much as I did, especially in the first chapter and before the trial of chapter two. He came across as a jerk character to me, who I lean away from, and I never expected his connection with anyone. On the other hand, I heavily related to Peko, and loved her so much she was my favorite character almost immediately. So when the trial of chapter 2 rolled around, I couldn't help but appreciate Fuyuhiko. Not only was he getting great development, but he was supporting my favorite character. I loved the backstory, and I was ready to see what came next for him. I was far from disappointed. He was a great character, and while he had flaws, doesn't every character? I'm so happy he survived. heismyhusbando

A lot of the fundamentals has already been said, I just wish to add on I'd love it if they kept Kuzuryuu's attempted interruption of the execution unique to him, and not have a repeat of it in DR3. From what's seen in DR1 -> SDR2, SDR2 heavily borrows ideas from the first and shared many similarities (to draw out the original survivors). With DRV3 being announced as a reboot (which could be an attempt at misdirection), I'm hoping it shows us more new ideas instead.

Also, I just like the idea of it being unique to Kuzuryuu, it was a great way to tie up the end of trial relevation regarding him and Pekoyama, and I just feel it'd feel cheaper if repeated.

It'd be like if they really went ahead and made Nidai's death a suicide, too similar (even the character archetype is the same), and it'd feel cheaper imo after having already experienced and the emotional impact of Oogami's suicide.

Also Beta Kuzuryuu was swole as fuck, I'm just trying to imagine how it'd be like if this was the Kuzuryuu we saw in the actual game.

Skeleton tie is cooler in beta

Kinda looks like Nekomaru.

Body shape wise I can see. Though, looking at the beta designs of the SDR2 characters, a few them have some similarities.

I mean, one of the beta designs for Nidai looks basically like Hanamura.

What the hell, I swear that is Hanamura in his flashback. Did they just swap the beta guys around or something?

Looking at Nidai's beta designs, one of them is like literally Fuyuhiko, which is funny cos I said that Fuyuhiko's beta looked kinda like Nekomaru.

Yeah, clearly some ideas were tossed around and reused. It's pretty funny, trying to imagine Nidai's energy in a tiny body like that.

Yeah, I was thinking about his screaming and voice from Fuyuhiko and Teruteru lol

Okay kids, kick back and relax and have a nice read because this guy right here is my favorite character across all the games so far. And I have my reasons for it.

Sure, I wasn't too big of a fan of him at first. He was an asshole and was supposed to the the second togami of the island, but once chapter 2 and the trial came around I felt he had potential as a great character and survivor of the program. His redemption arc is what made me love him, he's genuinely trying to be a better person and not let Peko's sacrifice go to waste. And he does that. He tries to get on good terms with everyone when he returns even willing to kill/injure himself further for it. His BroTP with Hajime and seeing him open up to the him and the cast made me love the guy.

I wouldn't call him a villain, but as a redeemed character he's one of the best I've seen. If we were ranking by number I'd give him a solid 10/10.

I like Fuyuhiko, though I'll try not to repeat what's already been said in this discussion...

He started the game being an asshole to everyone, but that seems to have been him trying to maintain his reputation as a Yakuza in spite of looking like an adorable child. His wanting to look tough made him seem inherently suspicious for the first case, though unlike Togami and Nagito he doesn't pretend he actually did it.

His relationship with Peko is interesting though, they're practically a canon pair (even on island mode, Peko is the only girl whose ending doesn't carry some kind of romantic subtext). They give no indication of it prior to the trial, but they clearly care about each other a lot, enough to sacrifice themselves to keep the other safe. Apparently Fuyuhiko is like that with other people as well, such as his sister whom he was a split second away from getting himself killed to "avenge" (through one degree of separation, but still).

Then after she dies, he tries the best he can to help the others, whether due to not wanting to waste the life she gave her own to let him keep, or because he blames himself for his impulsiveness and jerky attitude partially leading to her demise in the first place (he was about to kill Mahiru himself, after all). Likely a combination of both.

In the end, he seems to be one of the most strong willed people on the survivor roster, alongside Sonia and Hajime. While the others were confused about what to do, he consistently pushed for everyone to end the game already (granted, it's a good thing they didn't, but it's still notable). Lucky for us he's got his head on straight, or our friends on the island may have found out what made him the Ultimate Yakuza.

Fuyuhiko is probably the best character in the main games when it comes to character development. He starts like an asshole, then you can really see why he changes and becomes more of a nice guy, trying to do his best to not throw away the life Peko gave him. I also really like his japanese and english voice :)

I love him. I love how he went from like an easily hateable character to such a great one. He seemed like he was gonna kill first but then he ended up surviving till the end. The realistic change of heart he had towards the other classmates was what I really loved about him. He had real development unlike a lot of danganronpa characters (And I cosplayed him)

Personally I despise Kuzuryu and he's one of my least favourite characters. One of the things that irks me the most is how some people hate Saionji and like Kuzuryu. (when both of them are similar). Honestly I wish the developers kept to their original plan and had Saionji live to the end instead of Kuzuryuu whereas I felt sorry for Saionji, I didn't with Kuzuryuu.

[S] 
That's certainly an interesting view point. What did Hiyoko have that redeemed her in anyway? At least Fuyuhiko clearly showed that he could be a good person.

And that's my point. What redemption exactly? The only thing Hiyoko did that was wrong was verbal bully Mikan compared to Kuzuryuu who got Mahiru killed due to his poor treatment of Peko. Considering how much Saionji suffered through no fault of her own, I think that more than makes up for her verbal bullying. Just as she was about to have some development she was killed off. Now lets be honest how many people would of liked Kuzuryuu if he was killed off at the time Saionji was? And how many people would of liked Saionji if she survived? It would certainly have differences.

I look forward to seeing Hiyoko's discussion topic as it will be a lot more negative compared to Kuzuryu's.

[S] 
Hm, I can't say I agree since I found her to be generally unpleasant, but that's an interesting view of looking at it. I agree there'd be differences if their roles were swapped but that comes hand in hand with more exposure imo.

And I can only predict her discussion will be her detractors and fans, I feel there's no in between with that type of character.

Probably the only character that deserves to live till the very end. My favourite thing about him? His swearing. Yea I don't know why, but I just liked the fact that he can swear and that it's not censored.

Character Discussion #5 - Kiyotaka Ishimaru (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Kiyotaka Ishimaru

Talent: Moral Compass

Game: DR Trigger Happy Havoc

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Attempted to lead group discussions and maintain orderly meetings, trying to keep general peace

Bonds with Mondo Owada after initial conflict during a contest of endurance in the sauna

Is the PTA opponent for Trial 2 instead of actual killer, defends Mondo to the end

First and only so far to intentionally vote for the incorrect target

Becomes shell shocked after Mondo's death, emotionally distant and losing all his energy and gusto

Is 'reborn' as Kiyondo Ishida after seeing Mondo in Alter-Ego

Dies in Ch 3 by the hands of Hifumi Yamada

Discuss anything pertaining Kiyotaka Ishimaru, the Ultimate Moral Compass!

Character Order for Discussions

I might be typing up all future replies to these topics well in advance, but I am definitely doing it for Kiyotaka. Why is that? Because from a script-writing perspective, he has an extreme shot at being my favourite character in the entire series besides Monokuma, and this post might be super long as a result.

Play by play; of the characters in the introduction, the very room where you meet everyone else, Taka is probably the most boisterous and loud. He probably has one of the more memorable introductions, from his look, to his voice, to his expressions, to his dialogue. In a way, he typifies Danganronpa early on. His visual design isn't that outlandish except for his eyes being red, but the heterochromatic clash between his red eyes and his almost all white clothes instantly makes him striking. And while his personality isn't that original, it stands out because it's distinctly optimistic, befitting of his Ultimate title.

That is, until Monokuma shows up. Taka tries to somewhat take charge and, to be fair, his scholastic spirit is enough to keep something of a partnership between the students together (I believe he offers and mandates the idea of the breakfast meetings), but he's also shown to easily buckle under real pressure. This is actually rather believable under the circumstances, but if even the person whose sole purpose is to explicitly raise morale can't maintain their composure when Monokuma strolls in, then what "hope" do the kids really have? It's an effective demonstration of just how screwed the kids are.

His next major bit of character advancement is his stand-off against Mondo, and his subsequent friendship the next day. Does this entirely make sense? No. Does this lead to some funny moments? Yes. Does this reliably augment Taka's character? Actually, yes. Though he's optimistic and charismatic, his backstory in Free Time (I believe) reveals he never had any real friends, people with tangible personal connections, and it's easy to believe this was in part due to his relentless moral compass attitude being seen as abrasive, and that it took a one-on-one dare to cut through that doesn't seem so ridiculous. I mean, it is a little. It's obvious the jokes were the focus of this angle. Until...

Mondo's ousting as the blackened, and his subsequent death, turn Taka's character on its head. Making him completely distraught not only emphasises the bond one had with the other, however evergreen it was, it's also a brutal demonstration of just what there is to lose in the killing game besides the essence of life. Taka completely shuts down for a few days beyond that, clearly in shock, not saying a word. And once again, if someone as loud and optimistic as Taka has been brought down to that level, it's only because Monokuma is just that cruelly efficient at what he aims to do. One moment that really stands out, though minor, is when Monokuma tells Taka that a room in the third floor contains a time machine...before soon telling him it's just the air purifier. What does Monokuma have to gain from a pragmatic point of view from doing this? Nothing, it's not even an effective motive. But it shows how much of a monster he is, and how much Taka is hurting that he easily falls for it.

Just as much as he easily latches on to Alter Ego. I definitely got the feeling that although it was meditation or something similar that awakened "Kiyondo", it was pure grief and longing that made him latch onto Alter Ago in lieu of Chihiro, and it's the short term fire he receives from both that snaps him out of his despair. Which, again, seems like an angle just made for jokes, the kind that made people hate one of Ace Attorney 5's characters so much, but it is still consistent with Taka's character and is a demonstration of the evolving circumstances of the outlandish situation the gang is trapped in.

Then, he dies.

I've seen many complaints levelled at how soon Taka was killed off after becoming Kiyondo, citing misused potential, but I cannot agree. In hindsight, I think it's perfect. Something that's easy to forget but pivotal to remember about Danganronpa is that the point is not to get you to like and understand its characters; it's to make you get attached to them so if they die, it hurts AND it emphasises how dire the situation is, and Taka's death is actually one that makes the most sense. In the midst of a sudden recovery after an event that literally puts him in shock, and a newfound attachment to "someone to protect" (Alter Ego), his emotional state at that point is probably the most fever pitched it's been in his life. And it's that intense emotional state that is leveraged against both him and Hifumi. When Alter Ego is missing, he instantly goes looking for them, making him easy to lure and kill. He lets his guard down, even more than letting Mondo in to his heart just in time for Mondo to kill someone, and he pays the price. It is consistent.

That's Taka's greatest asset: consistency. He's not a particularly deep, complex or even that dynamic a character, but everything he does and everything that happens to him makes sense. His moral righteousness makes him too morally minded to have enough of a practical outlook, but he's not completely aloof either. His training has steeled him for group leadership, but it's not enough to save his mental integrity from the pure horror of being locked in a school and being told to kill. Even his feud with Mondo plays into his natural pride that stems from his position, even if his backstory reveals it isn't all hunky-dory. Even all his jokes make sense; his personality really is quite different from everyone else in the school, and his otherness is what drives the humour of his character.

With many characters, I can think of a handful of things I'd change. With Taka? I don't think I would have written him differently. His sudden friendship with Mondo is a tiny bit shaky, but it's a necessary evil for the great strides his character arc takes from then on. With regards to everything else, he is technically flawless, because any one facet of his character influences or is intrinsic to another. What makes this even better is that he doesn't come across like a character beckoning to have a post as long as this written about him. He's not like Kyoko, he doesn't have a "dark and mysterious past" or anything; he's just Kiyotaka, Ultimate Moral Compass.

On top of that, his last name is Ishimaru, which is similar to Ishimura, which makes me think of him fighting necromorphs, I'd play a game like that, even if it means he might die at the halfway mark there too.

Best DR1 Male. That is all.

Best Bros EVER!

[S]Is it me or did he actually feel sidelined to Hifumi in Ch 3? Hifumi even got to have Hina cry over him, was a vital to the trial due to his relation as one of the killers and appeared in flashbacks / was discussed a lot, it really felt like people didn't care about Taka which made me sad, his energy was one of my favourites and I'd love to have a meeting between him and Nagito :(

Yeah, he gets the award for "most bullshit death in the game" in DR 1 in my book.

I get it would be fairly predictable to make him one of the survivors considering the events involving Mondo and Chihiro dying, but I'd still gladly take that over dumbasskure.

I'll probably write something a bit more thorough when I get home from classes later today.

[S]Praise Fuyuhiko, broke the trend of dying immediately after important characters to them dies early on! Well technically Hiyoko took the spot but still

I concur, seeing Taka's school mode ending makes me want so badly to see what he'd do within Future Foundation. I mean, what better time to rebuild a world that rewards effort over geniuses then after the world has just ended? There's some really cool things you can imagine happening and directions they take.

Then there's Hiro. Guess he can go on living and being somewhat relevant?

I never really thought of it that way, but I totally agree! The entire trial seemed to be focused on Hifumi's role. "What? Oh, yeah, Ishimaru's dead. Boohoo." is basically the feeling the trial gave me.

[S]Yeah, honestly bummed me out. Only point where it mattered that it was Taka was that only he had as close a tie with Alter Ego as Hifumi did.

They didn't even give him much of a send off :(

Yeah, though I can see why they made him the victim. What are the odds the rest of the game would've played out if he was still there to keep the team from falling apart?

Most of what I feel about Ishimaru is already explained in my thoughts about Mondo. Also, fair warning: I jump topics a lot in general, so this probably will be a bit disorganized.

The two both have strong ties to their family, believe very much in respecting the word of another, carry a great deal of insecurity and project or make great effort to overcome it and handle that, but still found a way to deeply respect each other. The game makes the obvious contrast of an ultimate outlaw being brothers with the ultimate moral compass to better illustrate how people from vastly different backgrounds can still come together.

Judging from the fact that Ishimaru was so quick to be study buddies with Makoto in his FTEs, I'm led to believe he and Chihiro would do the same for Mondo, who doesn't believe he can be successful in an academic field. I imagine he's the one pushing him really hard to try harder and believes very much that, yes dude, you can do this. It leads me to believe that Ishimaru is part of the reason Mondo even wants to try and improve, and that even if he doesn't enter a more academic setting (Mondo states in his FTEs that he wants to become a carpenter), that Ishimaru believes that he should still give it his all. Mondo in turn would still see that Ishimaru wants to make any effort he can to restore his family's name and show the world that effort can trump inherent genius any time.

I think there's an added tragedy though, not just in the fact that such a strong bond was severed through the deaths of two people he cared very deeply for, but also the matter of his killer.

Celeste was able to get Yamada to cooperate by using the same trick used in the actual crime to get Yamada to believe that Ishimaru sexually assaulted her. By this point, he was Ishida, but it's still clear from their attitudes that neither Mondo nor Ishimaru would ever do something like that to a woman. Part of it was Celeste tapping into Yamada's desire to be a hero (more on that when Hifumi's comes up), but the fact remains that Ishimaru's killer acted because he felt as if he was taking out a rapist. It's an added tragedy that he would die that way, given how hard he was working to restore his family name, and the guy dies due to clear slander and manipulation.

That aside, Ishimaru is what led to the framework for the ultimate imposter, Nekomaru, Hiyoko to a degree, and Hajime. He's also the guy I really wanted to have live in the game. He was insensitive a few times, like a tactless comment he made about the now dead Sayaka and unintentionally trampling on Makoto's feelings, but it was clear that he still had the best interests of everyone in mind. A character like Ishimaru could easily fall into the "has no flaws and is incredibly boring" category, but I feel the tactlessness and how socially clumsy he is works well to make him clearly still be human, but not annoying to a distracting degree.

Part of me thinks the developers saw quite a bit in what they would be able to do with Ishimaru's attitude and used it as the benchmark for most of Hajime's character arc. It's a wonderful lesson too in the face of a school centered around talent.

I should also note that Ishimaru still stands as the only person in the series we've seen flat out vote for the wrong person. The game made a note to explicitly share this. Even in the Sakura case when Hina was trying to misdirect everyone, there's no mention that she voted wrong. Even in Peko's case, there's no mention that Fuyuhiko abstained or voted wrong to try and save her. Now, there is the likely possibility that they did indeed vote differently, but Mondo's case with Ishimaru's time still stands as the only instance the game felt it important enough to explicitly tell us someone voted wrong. I could be wrong, and someone feel free to correct me if I am, but I'm pretty sure there's never any other time it happens.

Ishimaru believed so strongly in his bond with his brother that he flat out voted wrong. You could debate whether he refused to believe it or if he did accept it but still would rather choose death than turning against his brother, but the fact that he would do it for either reason is one of the strongest events in DR 1 to me.

So all things considered, Ishimaru is my favorite guy in DR 1 along with Mondo. I know exactly where he's coming from when it comes to having a close friend you consider your own brother, and there's also the

I don't care how obvious it would be. I really wish Ishimaru was one of the survivors--not just because he's my favorite character, but because I just felt there was much more they could have done with him than say, Hagakure. I'd say that even if I hated him as a character.

BroTP forever, man.

Something that really augments one of your points is that apparently in the stage version, it's mentioned that a vote for the wrong killer will put you in the ground even if the majority votes correctly. Knowing this, Ishimaru still does not vote for Mondo, sending him to his death. Apparently their bond is so strong, or at least his belief in Mondo as a partner is so strong, he'd rather die than continue on without him. Now that's a tangible sense of attachment.

Ishimaru is in the small group of characters I actually like from the first game, I adore everything about this guy. His boisterous energy, crazy eyes and eyebrows, his sprites and how emotional they get, he's awesome, and his freetimes just serve to make me love him more. I really wish he ended up taking a more active role in trials, or in general.

His transformation into Ishida I'm more iffy about, but it doesn't change the fact of how much I love Ishimaru. I can only hope that perhaps your dad appears in the DR3 anime, poor guy lost his reputation and goodwill with others cause of his dad's scandal, then outlives his son because of the Killing Game. Entire family story is really capable of bumming you out when you stop and think about it.

Should've survived no matter how predictable it would've been. Like seriously Hiro, really? He should've died rather than Taka.

What if Hiro thought Alter Ego was actually a ghost? It'd be in his character being stupid and following Shintoism, so he tries to stop Hifumi and Taka from using Alter Ego. Celeste then frames Taka instead seeing as he has become much more aggressive after turning into Kiyondo and was angry at Hiro for preventing use of Alter Ego. Hifumi then says on his "death bed" Ishimaru rather than Yasuhiro, making Celeste's real name Taeko Ishimaru. Boom Taka lives and Hiro dies, everyone wins.

But Celeste's plan was contingent on Hiro being an idiot hence choosing to frame him rather than anyone else. Heck, Hiro couldn't even adequately defend himself in the trial despite it being a very obvious framing.

Besides, I think that one of the main reasons for Hiro surviving through the game was the author making use of irony in which the dumbest and most naive character managed to make it through the killing school trip.

Even so, case 3 was very weak either way. I agree with the sentiment that Kiyotaka's death was rather lacklustre and weird even in its context.

My thought process was that since Taka would still be Kiyondo, no one would believe him as he'd be like Mondo and rather than use reason yell at everyone that he didn't commit murder. Celeste's plan would've still had a shot, not as great as if she'd framed Hiro since he's an idiot, but still. Anyway this was only a hypothetical, Taka is dead and there's no way of reversing it sadly.

I'm taking a screenshot so I can remember this moment forever

Oh boy where do I begin with Ishi?

Ok, I fucking love this character, hell my very first cosplay was Ishimaru, while my best friend went as Mondo :p

Now onto why I love him, I love the leadership role he plays, it fits him perfectly and he shines through this. Once he becomes friends with Mondo its made even better as he finally fully connects with another member of the cast.

After Mondos death Ishimarus reaction was really the only one that felt truly genuine to the situation, he had just seen his best friend executed, right in front of eyes. And naturally he falls into a state of depression and barely opens up his month.

NOW, here we get into the part I really do not like. I despise Kiyondo, the whole reasoning behind him makes sense but when you go out of the way to make them both one character it just feels wrong.

Also goddamnit could you have died any worse? His entire death was essentially glossed over because they found Yamada dead not that long after and even he got some one to cry over him smh

Hehe, "bonds." I want someone like him in DR3.

To be honest, I didn't really think much of Kiyotaka when I first played DR1. That being said, he's really grown on me. I'm not entirely sure why it took me a while to warm up to him.

He is by far the best character in DR1 and the second best male in the series IMO (only beaten by Hinata).

I love everything about him, and am sad that he died too early. Togami should've died in his place.

With a talent like "Ultimate Moral compass" you have to wonder what his life was like before he came to Hope's peak. He seemingly didn't have many friends, or any friends for that matter apart from Owada.

It's a shame that he was killed off so unceremoniously, but I thought it kind of fit his character, working to make things run properly but ultimately being unable to stop things from going wrong.

It would've been very interesting to see how he'd react to Trial 4, and I doubt he would stand quietly for the unfairness of Trial 5...

Ishimaru is one of my favoruite characters in Dangan Ronpa 1, many of the other posters here have already subbed up why I like him better than I could articulate myself.

But what I will say that it's a real shame that he died so quickly, it seemed as if it happened just as he was going through a character development arc that got cut short. Perhaps Koda didn't know where to take it so he just killed him off, it's a real shame.

Konk "Oh no. That was a human being." The worst written death in the game. Hands down. Unforgivable. I could careless about wasted potential, if the death was meaningful.

Character Discussion #6 - Hiyoko Saionji (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Hiyoko Saionji

Talent: Traditional Dancer

Game: DR2 Goodbye Despair

Status: Comatose

Notable Roles:

Forms friendship with Mahiru Koizumi in Ch 2

Framed in Ch 2 Trial

Builds a shrine to commemorate Mahiru's passing

Killed in Ch 3 due to stumbling onto the scene of the crime

Post-grad pic used to prove passage of time in Ch 6

Discuss anything pertaining Hiyoko Saionji, the Ultimate Traditional Dancer!

Character Order for Discussions

Saionji has great taste in video games! How could I possibly hate a fellow Professor Layton fan?

On a more serious note, Saionji's death is one of the things I really don't like about DR2 (along with the third case in general). She had started to change at the beginning of the chapter, but then is abruptly killed off before she can redeem herself. She had so much potential for character development, and it was squandered. I could've easily accepted it if she was killed on purpose too, Mikan had all the motives in the world to actively target her, Saionji would've "had it coming" if that were the case. However, she was killed just for being in the wrong place at the wrong time, which I find very annoying. With a reason like that, it could've just been anyone else, and there's characters whose survival I think was less interesting than Saionji's would've been. I don't hate her but I understand why people do, it's a shame the story didn't do something better with her that could've maybe changed that.

Okay, first off: props for making an obvious bait-and-switch work so well. You go up to Hiyoko, small girl in a kimono/yukata, expect her to be all petite and it turns out she's killing bugs because she likes the way they feel and sound as they die. Of all the fucked up things I'd seen in my time, that was the fuckest upest. Or something.

Beyond that, she goes on to attract a lot of cheap heat, calling everyone names, bullying Twogami and especially Mikan. So, uh, I didn't like her. But that was the intention. She attracted heat, but not X-Pac heat in the same way as, say, Nagito. Or Mahiru.

Mahiru and Hiyoko are entirely intertwined, and not to give away all of my material on Mahiru now, but Hiyoko latching on to her so seemed kinda self-serving. Hiyoko needs some anchor for empathy so she doesn't come off as a completely unlikeable asswipe you want to see killed off, so who better to give that role to than the person who does nothing else in the story? Not only did it seem way transparent, it also didn't strike me as the relationship having a lot of chemistry.

Hiyoko is...well, she's a troll, and while Mahiru's "sisters doing it for themselves" mentality might find something to latch onto in Hiyoko's carefree attitude, I would have thought her own no-nonsense outlook that doesn't put up with a lick of bullshit would have clearly defenestrated any friendship the two could have had. While it's just believeable enough, I think it would have been better if Hiyoko had had a connection with, say, Akane.

But then she couldn't have mourned over someone at the beginning of Chapter 3, I guess. I liked that it gave her a sympathetic role for a short window of time, and that it took her a damn long while to even think of forgiving Fuyuhiko. It's subtle, but the two play off each other incredibly well during their visit to the hospital. Hiyoko is a firespitter, Fuyuhiko's recently been put in his place and, while sorrowful and apologetic, is not in a mood to argue.

And then she dies.

This death I did not like at all, because it seemed like a very obvious portrayal of the writing process. She'd gone through her character arc, served her purpose, had her moment of redemption, and now that the story was starting to get really serious with its overarching mystery, she had to be written out of it. It's literally through coincidence of timing that she is found and killed at all, and...it literally makes no sense that her body was discovered. What reason would Mikan have for uncovering the wallpaper hiding her body when she leaves the bar?

I struggle to think of a way she could have been meaningfully integrated into the story past that point when her connection with Mahiru hit its peak in the aftermath of Chapter 2, which was the backbone of her character, but as I said, I didn't think its foundation was that strong to begin with. Certainly, she deserved a better death than the old "leave no witnesses" treatment.

Not much else to her than that, though a picture of her older self being a clue to the big reveal was great. Because it really emphasizes how her youthful appearance is what sets her apart from the rest of the cast, so when a picture of her is noticeably older, you really feel the dissonance.

Actually, I'll say this for Hiyoko. She has good taste in music.

x-pac heat?

Sean "X-Pac" Waltman was a wrestler who would, for many reasons, get booed even if he wasn't playing a bad guy. The audience did not want to see him get his comeuppance in the ring, they just wanted him gone.

Basically, it's a completely unintentional dislike for someone whose weight supersedes that of typical hate for a character.

I see, thanks.

Well said, particularly about her death. She was seemingly killed off as a side note by a character who would be the most justified in being mad at her of anyone on the island, then her corpse was revealed for apparently no reason rather than being left to be found in the investigation.

Ironically her being killed on purpose would've made Mikan seem like a more reasonable person than the way it did play out. Instead of getting revenge or planning it out, Hiyoko was killed off for being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Perhaps Hiyoko is supposed to seem like an innocent acting like a jerk to get attention, but it still would've seemed more reasonable for her to be the target than Mikan strangling one of the most personable people on the island and getting spotted.

Finding her during the investigation would've added another angle to the third trial too. People coming from the first game might have jumped at calling her an accomplice who got the short end of the stick, or maybe they never find the body until after the trial and Monokuma forces them to do another for Hiyoko. Either way, it would've been more interesting and probably more useful than having her pop up out of nowhere when Hajime returns to the Music venue...

I'm probably in the minority here, but I liked Hiyoko. Not as a person, but as a character. For some reason, I find myself liking the unnecessarily bitchy characters, which Hiyoko obviously is. I definitely think her potential was wasted, though, since she was killed off mid-redemption.

I actually agree with liking her as a character. Not everyone should be nice or likeable, and for the most annoying personality to belong to the character that looks like a child seems like a Dangan-esque subversion of expectations.

From what we saw of her in the Twilight Syndrome game, she was friends with Mikan, Ibuki and Mahiru when they were in Hope's peak. She probably would've gotten to be a decent person if she hadn't been killed off, and while I wouldn't pick anyone else to take her place (in fact, I would actually have preferred to let Ibuki off if I were giving death passes to characters), I would say her death was unnecessary.

Exactly! If every character were nice and likable, there wouldn't be any conflict between them.

Hiyoko is one of those characters I still really don't like, but I'm still intrigued by.

The scene that still ticks me off most in the game is a portion in chapter 2 where Hiyoko calls Mikan an ugly bitch, followed up with Mahiru standing up for Hiyoko when a group says she smells. I think the scene speaks poorly for Mahiru and Hiyoko. Mahiru has no problem with not standing up for Mikan in any way and proceeds to ignore Hiyoko's behavior.

I understand that Hiyoko was originally intended to be a survivor though, so that would certainly affect the pacing. You don't want to throw out your trump card for a character that's supposed to make it until chapter 6, after all. Fair enough. But even so, it's still incredibly grating to have to put up with that kind of behavior and never see it explored.

Hiyoko is a product of her environment. That I understand. Most of her actions are a defense mechanism, which is what we see with pretty much every single bully character ever. The game makes it clear in her FTEs that they're not expecting you to like her as a person. I know the writers are very capable of writing a convincing bully character. There's plenty to work with in this context. If Mikan gets killed off, you could have the reforming Hiyoko in an odd position because the target of her bullying is now dead...but I also know that they could just as easily have her tease Mikan as she's dying.

I think the fact that they would kill off Fuyuhiko, Ibuki, and Mikan all in what's already the most bullshit chapter in the series in addition to making the entire previous chapter completely pointless would just piss off too many people.

Maybe you could keep Hiyoko over Kazuichi, but then you lose one of the best red herrings of chapter 4, not to mention a large portion of that chapter simply doesn't work as well without Kazuichi around.

I don't like her as a person, but the game makes it obvious that it doesn't expect you to like her that way. I didn't like her as a character either, but if I had to choose between having a chance at her being more developed and an even messier chapter 3 or what we have now, I think this was the better decision.

Side note: Hiyoko is obviously the hero of time, which explains her picture in chapter 6.

A big reason I don't believe the "Fuyuhiko was originally supposed to die in Chapter 3" thing that was thrown around is because if he did, we never would be able to complete FTE's with him

Even if it is true (and I don't think it is as the only source is a post on tumblr with a dead link to a magazine), I think people are very over exaggerating how late in development they made the decision

That isn't necessarily true though. It's not possible to complete The Ultimate imposter or Teruteru's free time events in-game either, but they still require the last event via island mode.

They could easily just have it where it's not possible to finish Fuyuhiko's, especially given the extra sting you see of him making his promise with Hajime that they'll both survive together.

It's not about finishing Fuyuhiko's events, though. You can't even start them if he dies in Chapter 3. That's never happened for any character before

And I could be wrong but I believe you can finish Teruteru's free time events in-game as long as you make him the only person you talk to during Chapter 1

The reason you can't finish Twogami's is because you'd find out he isn't Togami

You can't finish either Togami's nor Teruteru's in chapter 1. There are only four events in that chapter, so even if you devoted all your free time to either one, you can't finish either character off.

If they planned to off Fuyuhiko earlier, there's no reason they couldn't alter the plot a bit to let you have some free time with him, and even if they didn't, he'd still be available in island mode. I'm not saying that'd be the best decision on their part, but it is one possibility they could have taken.

Fair enough but the issue with Fuyuhiko is that you definitely wouldn't be able to interact with him in Chapters 1 or 2, making it so the rewrite would have to be him not interfering with Peko's execution

I don't know...it just seems more logical to me that the "Hiyoko was originally supposed to survive" trivia is either completely false or heavily misconstrued by fans

I guess. I don't take it as word of god, I just consider it a possibility.

Either way, it strays from the point of Hiyoko having much potential if she were to be a survivor. If she was, I don't think they could have done much that was worth sacrificing red herring potential for later trials or sacrificing other characters that did survive.

Best girl of DanganRonpa 2

[S]Definitely one of my favourite image sets regarding her
Regardless of thoughts towards her, she has some pretty hilarious and expressive sprites.

My third fave behind Twogami and Fukawa. <3 I loved how unexpected her aggressive and abusive personality was despite her cute design. She delivered with all of her lines, and actually could have had a decent arc had it not been cut short for some bs wrong place at the wrong time murder.

Ah, yes. My least favorite character in the entire series.

Even just seeing fanart of her, before I ever played SDR2, she felt... off. She seemed like someone more concerned with looking cute than being nice, and dear God I did not know how accurate I was.

Her behavior very quickly escalates from unnerving to completely awful. Half her dialogue consists of crude insults, mostly towards Kazuichi and especially Mikan. When she doesn't get her way, she fakes tears and somehow everyone falls for it. She continues on like this for the first 2 chapters, Mahiru being the only person she ever really cares about. It'd have been one thing if she directed her venom at people who deserved it, but it seems like she goes out of her way to antagonize those already suffering from a long history of bullying.

While I'm not 100% certain on why she's so focused on Mikan in particular, I have 2 ideas. First of all, like most bullies, she probably targets Mikan because she knows they won't stand up for themselves. Secondly, if you talk to her after Mikan's first fall, she'll wonder if Mikan does it on purpose (and if you've done Mikan's FTEs it's heavily implied this is the case). Hiyoko being Hiyoko, she knows a sympathy ploy when she sees one, and Mikan goes as far as exposing herself in the process. This would also explain why most of her insults towards Mikan involve slut-shaming.

Even in the trials, she contributes basically nothing herself. Chapter 1 has her fuck off to the supermarket in lieu of doing anything actually useful, while Chapter 2 has her being framed for murder and doing a piss-poor job of denying it. She did point out that everyone has to investigate or die, but that only serves to make it more frustrating when she apparently decides not to listen to herself.

One moment of hers that made me think a bit was just after Chapter 1. She expressed a bare minimum of sympathy towards the Impostor's death, then went on to condemn Teruteru as a vile piece of human garbage who deserved to be executed. She's wrong, of course, but it feeds into a major point of the series as a whole: The executions are sick jokes, and nobody deserves a punishment like that. If you're agreeing with Hiyoko, that's usually a pretty good sign you're in the wrong.

Then, of course, Mahiru dies. Hiyoko mourns her in her own uniquely morbid way. She kinda sorta starts to take the first step on beginning to redeem herself, but before it really starts to mean anything she's killed off. I've heard that Hiyoko was originally intended to survive to the end instead of Fuyuhiko, and looking at how Chapter 3 played out it seems quite believable to me. Both started off as the most caustic and antisocial members of the group. They are both deeply affected by someone's death in Chapter 2, and start to change themselves for the better. Fuyuhiko's change is pretty radical and he manages to successfully redeem himself both in-universe and in the eyes of the fanbase. Hiyoko, however, changes very gradually, and by the time she dies it's almost the dictionary definition of too little, too late. Both had a redemption arc, it was simply a matter of which one would have enough screentime to finish it. Sometimes I wonder how her arc would've played out had she managed to survive, and if I'd still end up hating her afterward. But this is Dangan Ronpa, a franchise that's no stranger to wasted character development (coughkiyondoishidacough).

I've also heard that she was a character you were supposed to hate. And this definitely makes sense. She serves as sort of a contrast to Mikan: both were victims of abuse, but whereas Mikan internalized it and became extremely submissive, Hiyoko externalized it and inflicted it on others. She shows that sometimes abuse makes people pretty shitty, and sometimes stuff like that just can't be fixed with the power of friendship or whatever. I hate her, but she's ultimately not a bad character. Just a bad person.

I actually liked Saionji a lot honestly behind Akane, Nagito and Kazuichi

I played through all her FTE and saw the island mode ending, she look like a little girl that need to be protected. All the rude thing she said is to protect herself from being bully, and she look hajime as her father because he always kind to her. Still, one of my favorite character in DR2.

Yeah as I expected Saionji has far more hate than Kuzuryuu, which I find ridiculous. Both of them behaved very similarly in the first two chapters, yet people prefer an accomplice to murder over a verbal bully just because the former had a shipping and said "I'm really really sorry for what I've done, I'll definitely make up for it" about 50 times. Well 'Actions speak louder than words' buddy and there's nothing in the later chapters you did that showed redemption. Sure what Saionji did to Mikan was completely wrong but look what happened to her, the closest person to her on the Island was killed and then she was framed as the culprit. Next Chapter she was starting to change and then was killed off by the very person she bullied (Although that wasn't the reason why she was killed). I think she was punished enough just for verbal bullying.

Also I see some people on here say she was "made" to be hated well if you look at the official popularity poll in Japan below, she's ranked higher than Kuzuryuu.

http://meltdowner.tumblr.com/post/31939499470/results-of-super-dangan-ronpa-2-character

So the Saionji hate seems to be a western only issue.

To conclude personally I hate Kuzuryuu and I don't particularly like Saionji that much either, but I feel that she was one of the most realistic characters of the cast in the situation they were in and when it comes to the sympathy vote, Saionji would get it every time because Kuzuryuu's suffering was entirely his fault.

[S]I mean, personally I thought that Fuyuhiko's actions did show that he had redeemed himself. He dropped the hostility, tried his best to be helpful in every chapter afterwards and is a legitimate aid and help to the group, but to each their own I guess.

Also damn, Kazuichi is more popular in Japan than Sonia???

For what he did in Chapter 2 he didn't do near enough to redeem himself. Let's just say in reality what Fuyuhiko did would put him in prison for at least a decade. Whereas Hiyoko would at the very most serve 3 years for harassment.

For him to truly redeem himself in this game's timeline he needed something on the level of a heroic sacrifice, you know "Redemption equals death" oh wait isn't that something Tanaka did? Someone who had nothing to be redeemed for? A character who surpasses Kuzuryuu's in every way? Yes.

Indeed those results are genuine, making Saionji the 4th favourite SDR2 character in Japan's eyes. (Personally I wouldn't place her this high, to me she would be around 10).

There is a point here. As I mentioned, Fuyuhiko has blood on his hands thanks to Girl E alone, but there are noted differences in behaviours. In Chapter 1, Fuyuhiko isn't really aggressive so much as completely stand-off-ish. He states bluntly after Monokuma explains the rules that he has no qualms about killing, says it again at the diner and refuses to go to the party. In general, he just doesn't interact with anyone until Peko's facing her death.

By contrast, Hiyoko is outwardly hostile, with a good half of her dialogue being name-calling, belittling, snark and so on towards everyone on the island. She establishes a very deliberate presence. The first thing she does is proclaim how if you squash ants just right, they make the most satisfying sound. Make no mistake, she was written to be disliked if your introduction to her consisted of textbook sadism.

Adding to this, Fuyuhiko signed up himself up for what's essentially a death sentence by volunteering to be one of the people helping out at the hospital, a task Hiyoko said was necessary, but when it came time to actually help out, Hiyoko is the only one the game explicitly tells us stayed shut up in her room and made no efforts to help anyone else. They at least tell us the others not working in the hospital are still trying to find a way to treat the others.

Additionally, Fuyuhiko would contribute during the trials a great degree, and when he saw he was a feasible suspect in trial 3, he goes out of his way to give a detailed alibi of what he was doing and doesn't expect anyone to just take his word for it. Hiyoko on the other hand would just insult others and lie to cover for herself.

[S]Also there's the stronger emotional effect Ch 2's trial has regarding Fuyuhiko over Hiyoko, life partners vs friends for a few day, in combination with Hiyoko's overall less pleasant personality.

Also you're more exposed to Hiyoko's crap since she's actually with the group more often offering snide remarks and whatnot.

Except how can I feel sorry for a guy who brought it upon himself? Its like me feeling sorry for a person who abused drugs to the point they're bankrupt and homeless. I don't feel sorry for anybody who's suffering is self-inflicted.

Funny how you don't mention Chapter 2 where he pisses pretty much everybody off with his attitude to the point that Souda tells him to "bring it on" and then he cowers away. Did any other character say the same thing to Hiyoko? If we go by semantics, at this point the characters clearly think Kuzuryuu is more of a jerk than Saionji is.

So for arguments sake its better to agree that both of them were as bad as each other in the first two chapters, regarding their behaviour.

God, I hated Saionji. I wanted someone to slit her throat.

Then Tsumiki did it. That redeemed her even though she murdered Ibuki.

I am so glad that Fuyuhiko survived over her. I personally thought she was irredeemable.

So a verbal bully is irredeemable but an accomplice to murder, as well as attempting to kill a dozen other people is redeemable? You have some twisted logic there.

To say you can't forgive a bully but you can forgive someone because they murdered? That's pretty messed up.

That's stupid since Fuyuhiko was literally no different than her before Chapter 3

Character Discussion #7 - Gundham Tanaka (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Gundham Tanaka

Talent: Breeder

Game: DR2 Goodbye Despair

Status: Comatose

Notable Roles:

Discovers entrance to get below floorboards after dropping his earrings in the old cabin in Ch 1

Uses Dark Devas to retrieve evidence in Ch 3

Friendship with Sonia deepens in Ch 4

Uses Dark Devas to push elevator button in Ch 4

Completes Final Dead Room and using the Ultimate Weapon plots out the murder of Nekomaru Nidai

Challenges Nekomaru to a duel before using Dark Devas to press Goodnight Button and carry out his murder

Execution: Gundham Tanaka Stampede

Discuss anything pertaining Gundham Tanaka, the Ultimate Breeder!

Character Order for Discussions

It seems like every other person has Gundam as a flair on here, like one Gundam to every two or three other characters. And from my time kicking around various other parts where the DR fandom hangs out, it seems that Gundam is in the top tier of most liked characters in the franchise. He is, seriously, insanely popular, he has a fairly rabid following. Through a mix of dark horse favouritism and pure charm, he just has a lot of people who idolise him.

And I'm one of them.

I struggle to say he's this exceedingly well-written person of interest in the same vein as a lot of my other favourite characters. Though the idea of his dark magic being a put-on for some sense of self-worth and his affinity for animals being a crutch for being unable to talk to people properly is a decent slow burn of a character arc, and is certainly believable and makes him sympathetic, it's not exactly a unique backstory. I'm tempted to say his introduction is kind of obnoxious, too. Certainly, it's forceful. Y'know, cos his name will rule the world one day.

But...I don't know, he's just such a splendid mix of real charisma, dorky charm, gusto, vigor and even cutesiness with how he plays up the "demonic power" of his hamsters. In Chapter 1 especially, I think the fact that he tries so hard to present himself as living on this other plane of existence, especially in regards to finding his earring, gives him this ridiculous level of charm. And what keeps him from getting stale is that there's only a handful of times where he "steals the show". Most of the time, he's kind of waiting in the wings to deliver some impromptu remark about the influence of the deities on the current situation or something apropos of nothing, act all cool about it and then slink away to have the situation play out as normal. So he shows up, gets to be cool for a few lines and either exits the scene or plays quiet so as not to be obnoxious.

Because I do think his character could have easily gone very wrong, but there's a balance at work. His very essence requires him to be loud and eloquent, attention-grabbing in a very deliberate way, but his backstory (and yes I went straight for his Free Time events oh yes) reveals an awkwardness and shyness that must also be expressed to give him some dimension. Sonia is the only person who really takes his occult interests seriously, leading to Gundam actually feeling embarrassed and humble whenever he's honestly complemented by her. And it's great that this super level of kindness is the real weakness of Gundam Tanaka that gets him to double-take, because it somehow both reinforces AND subverts his cocky persona as master of the dark arts. Of course no one could actively challenge him to get him to back down; it takes someone to show that level of kindness and interest he didn't expect to catch him off-guard.

I think if I had to really pin down the appeal of the character, it's that he is probably the most quotable character of the series. "It is the name that will one day rule this world", "this too must be the will of causality" "INFINITY UNLIMITED FLAME". Whether you like the character or not, you don't forget these lines very easily because they have such a punch to them. I daresay he's more quotable than even the teddy bear villain; no small feat. And it definitely makes the character unforgettable if nothing else.

And, like...seriously, he actually has some of the highest distinctions of the series. He has arguably the best murder of the series, arguably the best execution of the series, easily the best pre-death speech of the series, one of the most eye-catching designs of the series, between his heterochroma, his lightning make-up/scar/whatever, his flowing purple scarf, his bandages, his earring and his shirt design. He seems like such an obvious favourite I wonder if he was an in-house pick as well. I figured between him and Ibuki, easily the two biggest charisma machines of the bunch, that if one of them died at the halfway mark the other would be able to go the distance. On some level, I'm surprised he didn't make it even further, but he had a hell of an exit. Someone on the writing team liked him for sure. And as for me...well, when it came time to play Fallout 4 about a month later, I gave my main character a scar across his left eye and named my mainstay guns Jum-P, San-D, Maga-Z and Cham-P.

In a weird way, you could say the exterior reaction to his character has backfired. His explicit backstory is that his old-timey warlockness is a put-on because he's very socially awkward and no one took him seriously, but much of the fanbase seemed to take to him instantly even with all the dark magic schtick, which is maybe a contradiction of how he was meant to be presented? :P As I said, dark horse favouritism.

I don't think I have anything more tangible to say about Gundam. But I just love him. When I grow up, I want to be just like him. I mean, I've already incorporated "the will of causality" into my modern lexicon. And I'm told it's really annoying.

He's pretty good. I found his shenanigans amusing, but I found myself wanting to know more about him and his backstory, so I was disappointed when no development like that was forthcoming. I was nonplussed by his death. His reasoning for doing what he did seemed overwritten and convoluted, and I'm still not sure that I totally understand it when there seemed to be superior options.

So yeah. Consistently fun and likable in the main plot, somewhat disappointing free time events, but his "big scene" didn't really pan out for me. Better than most.

I was nonplussed by his death. His reasoning for doing what he did seemed overwritten and convoluted, and I'm still not sure that I totally understand it when there seemed to be superior options.

Completely agree, and Gundham's my favorite character. I was disappointed when I realized he was the killer but his death just didn't do it for me

I don't care what people say on how Gundham's reasoning for not confessing is because he wanted the cast to fight and he didn't want them to give up on life. That's extremely convoluted and I have a hard time buying it

Bottom line is that Gundham took large preventative measures so he wouldn't be found out as the murderer (trying to establish an alibi, chaining the tower door, breaking the elevator, breaking the tower button) and he was VERY close to getting away with it. If the cast didn't find out he was the murderer, which was very likely, he would've killed all of them. And I don't forgive him for that

I wouldn't blame him if his motive was to not just lay down and die and fight for his own life, but I hate it when people act like he made some altruistic sacrifice for everyone

SAKURA sacrificed herself for the sake of everyone else. She left a note so the trial would end quickly, gave everyone else the hope to not give up on life (getting everyone to work together), and broke the door down so they could get valuable clues

If it takes an essay to explain why it makes sense it might just not make that much sense.

I got the impression he had both trains of thought going into the murder. Gundam's prideful enough to follow through with the "hero's sacrifice" thing, including having the fight with Nekomaru...but he's also self-centered enough that he would also kind of like...well, living.

That's what I got, that either outcome would have suited him fine.

I'm usually a stickler for the Japanese voices but holy shit Tanaka's English voice actor just took the role and ran with it, SDR2 overall actually has a great dub and Tanaka is definitely one of its highlights. Definitely one of my biggest worries going into the dub that was quickly resolved after I saw his introduction.

About the man himself, what else is there to say? He's a hilarious guy with a soft spot to him, in one of the cutest ships, and he carries freaking hamsters around wherever he goes!

…It's fucking Gundham. What else can I say that I haven't said numerous times around here? He's hammy, he's just fun to be around, it's clear from his FTEs that he doesn't expect people to take his persona seriously, but instead uses it to push people away. That's part of why he hits it off so well with Sonia.

By chapter 3 of DR 2, the motives Monokuma presents are no longer temptations but now just a matter of "who is gonna kill?" the motive of "kill or starve to death" is by far the most straightforward. But I feel a fair amount of both people who like and dislike Gundham for his decision during this trial are missing a portion of what makes this trial and Gundham as a character more complex. He does draw the majority of his base character from one of the more complex DR 1 characters in Celestia Ludenberg, after all. I'll definitely agree that he's not one of the core characters, but I wouldn't write him off as just a gag character or an uneventful one.

Unlike Celeste, Gundham doesn't create his evil overlord persona out of fear of being killed, but probably more to avoid having to be taken seriously or have people get close to him and to cope with rejection. Moments like him co-leading the group decisions with Hiyoko suggest that he's willing to step up and minimize any deaths. I think most people are in agreement that Gundham is a pretty introverted, socially awkward person that tries his best to push people away so they don't get close to him and as a way to cope with his loneliness. His last event in his FTEs makes that pretty clear. The fact that he describes himself as a union of an angel and a demon could imply that he's not on good terms with one of his parents, likely his father if he was willing to please his mother as shown in his FTEs.

Of course, the two biggest things about Gundham is that 1) He's a lonely guy who probably constructed his persona to cope with that and 2) He's a firm believer that you should never simply accept dying, that it's not enough to simply biologically function, and to always take purpose in what you do. There is the time where he gets pissed off at Hajime for suggesting he gives up on looking for his earring, which leads up to the chapter that put him on the map for a lot of people. Then comes the funhouse. So we're all starving and both Gundham and Nekomaru form a death pact, deciding to try and kill each other to satisfy the murder requirement and at least prevent everyone from starving. There's no reason everyone has to die, after all. Gundham ends up sending Nekomaru to the shadow realm.
"He could have run away…or even call for help. But he did not turn his back to me."

This line confirms it for Nekomaru. This isn't a matter of self-defense or murder justification. The two realize that they both die if they sit and do nothing, so they opt to fulfill a death pact instead. The funhouse motive ensures one death, so the death pact ensures that either Gundham or Nekomaru become that one person, and both of them were completely fine with that if it means everyone moves forward. They also do it in such a way that not one single person has to simply surrender their lives. They both die, but for them, they couldn't just die sitting around. They died fighting for their lives. The purpose of the class trial was for the rest of the group to do that too.

Now this is the portion where everyone gets a bit divided, as Gundham went through the trial and we figured out about this death pact. So from here on, I'm gonna go into the common criticisms and give my explanations behind them based on what I thought about our demon lord.

Why is the funhouse the ultimate weapon? Why is it the "ultimate" weapon if it can only kill one person?

The idea behind the "ultimate weapon" is to murder someone staying in the opposite house as you with your weapon of choice (keep in mind you can use the weapon then return it to the final dead room to make the investigation even more difficult), break the elevator, and then seal off the entrance to the final dead room with the chain and padlock after returning to your area. The building structure wouldn't even come into play like it did in the trial. You can just use the argument of "the elevator is broken, how would I get to the other side to kill?" Nobody else can enter the final dead room to know there's a secret passage and naturally, everyone will narrow down suspects to just the people on the other side. As long as you don't leave anything changed in the elevator (where Gundham and Nekomaru chose to have their battle), you succeed in the murder.

Recall this is how Chiaki ran the test of the building structure when she used her E-Handbook as a reference point to experiment with how the building is designed. The possibility that a test object in the center got moved ultimately gets refuted because of oil on the floor, but that's a more feasible contradiction with an object like a handbook. Someone could intentionally cut themselves and use their blood as a test or Nekomaru with his oil, but even then, it's highly unlikely someone would even think to go that far without knowing the secret of the funhouse. In other words, Tanaka did the one thing you're not supposed to do to successfully get away with the murder. He chose the elevator for the death pact fully aware that leaving evidence in it can lead to his getting caught. Monokuma handed everyone an instant win weapon because he was trying to speed along the killings for preventing the shutdown sequence.

But Gundham didn't confess. Why not? "He didn't want to give up" is a copout.

Part 1

Part 2

But he didn't have to kill Nekomaru though. If he really cared, why not kill Nagito or have Nagito commit suicide?

The reason why

In other words, Tanaka did the one thing you're not supposed to do to successfully get away with the murder.

This is 100% speculative

That isn't speculative. If you don't tamper anything in the central elevator room and use the ultimate weapon as intended (The deluxe rooms are soundproof so you can kill someone virtually undetected. You can fire a gunshot and the person right next to you won't hear it), use the secret passage, break the elevator and seal off the final dead room, you win.

It's incredibly obvious that leaving evidence in the elevator leads you to figure out the building structure. Someone only interested in saving themselves wouldn't take this route.

The point of the building's secret structure is so it can be used as a weapon. There's no point that the building would have an elevator if that wasn't what the Ultimate Weapon was supposed to be (if the structure of the building was what they originally had thought, there could just be a secret underground tunnel)

Gundham tried his hardest to hide the secret of the building structure by chaining the doors, he just got screwed over by the doorknob (you can't chain the door to the final dead room from the inside)

The building can be used as a weapon, yes.

The secret passage was clearly built as an alibi, not to mention the fact that you have access to countless weapons yourself. Nowhere does it say you're limited to just using the building itself or have to use it in that manner. If not, there'd be no point in including the other weapons. The means of killing isn't the slightest bit important in the context of the killing game. Securing an alibi and not having people figure out you're the killer is much more important, and thus the secret passage is as important as I'm making it out to be. The building's "point" is to secure an instant win and kill all but one person. Monokuma wanted to make sure they couldn't activate the shutdown and wanted the trial over quickly. That makes the most sense.

You get a handgun, you go to a deluxe room in the opposite house. Boom. Shoot them. Return to your house. Chain off the door from the outside and return to your side.

You don't have to chain the door to the final dead room from the inside. You chain the outside of the door door. You can't prove when it was sealed off and nobody would know there's a secret passage, so you can't map out a sequence of events to know what the killer did. You can just as easily argue the killer obtained the weapon by playing the life threatening game, retrieved the ultimate weapon, left the final dead room, and chained off the door from outside strawberry house before proceeding to carry out their murder plan. I'm not talking out of my ass here. It's pretty clear the funhouse was designed to have an instant win that Gundham actively chose to pass up.

It's not clear at all that the funhouse was designed to have an instant win that Gundham chose to pass up. The writers of DR aren't the masters of subtlety. If this were the case, it would be stated in-game

The secret passage was built as an alibi, obviously. However, my points was that if the building's structure wasn't the ultimate weapon, then it would just be a normal building that happened to have a secret passageway. Gundham used the weapon exactly as Monokuma intended him to and he left no evidence behind on his own volition. The ONLY evidence that shows Gundham wasn't trying to kill everyone is that he confessed quickly, but he was already kind of cornered considering the standard of proof the kids have is kind of low already

You're gonna do this with most things I say. Think what you will of it. I gave my case already.

[S]Gundham is surely a popular character, but in doing this I realized that he totally didn't do anything in Ch 2, huh.

Think he's a bit overrated and somewhat repetitive, if he had more moments where he wasn't his delusional overlord self and who he actually was I feel I'd like him more.

How dare you

uh oh...

[S] 
Just calling it how I see 'em.

Ohhhhhh Righty! My Fav Character time! I could easily just say That i find him super awesome but it's more then that. Alrighty, the best place to start. When we get introduced to Tanaka it becomes clear that out of all the DanganRonpa cast he had the most extremely personality. He's a self acclaimed lord of darkness who see's himself as a being above the likes of puny mortals. So one wonders, what could his Talent be? Is he Ultimate Genius? A Ultimate villain? The Super Duper Highschool Goth kid????? No! He's the Ultimate Breeder! He just loves Animals but instead of making him a kind hearted shy person they made him a over the type extreme character.

A over the top Character like Gundham could go really good or really really really bad! He could of very easily been the most annoying character in the game and if his talent would of been anything else he could of truly been. The fact that his talent is caring for animals makes him instantly more human so he's not just some crazy dude, he's just a guy who really loves animals and the way he acts all comes from how he was raised.

From his freetime events it's pretty clear that growing up Gundham didn't really have many human friends, he was most likely the typical shy loner kid who just felt uncomfortable around other people. I personally believe this comes from his home life. We all know that Gundham was pretty close to his mother so what about his father? Well I believe that this line explains quite a bit.

"I'm the offspring of an angel and a devil, a cursed being shunned and rejected by everything in this world!"

The way Gundham is, it becomes quite clear how he see's the whole spiritual thing. Due to him being all evil evil darkness it's very likely that he's Angels as good being, positive beings, safe beings. Due to his relationship with his mother its safe to Assume that she's the Angel which leads the demon role to his father. Why would Tanaka call his father a Demon? Perhaps his parents relationship wasn't too good of one. Perhaps his father was a bad husband and a bad father and ended up leaving his mother. Gundham stayed with his mother and saw his father as just a bad person.

Gundam was raised by a single mother who clearly cared a lot for him, the fact that she would cry if he didn't eat showed that she cared for his heath and wanted to be the best mother for him. Being a single mother is quite hard and sometimes they end up sheltering there child. Gundham most likely didn't get out too much as a child and therefore grew to distrust people.

""Monokuma and Monomi are...sort of shaped like animals... They are no good. Anything that can talk will eventually betray you. And most importantly...they aren't cute."

When one feels like they can't trust humans who do they turn to? Animals, from a young age he most likely just felt more comfortable around animals. Cute creatures that didn't hurt him, wouldn't judge him, would always listen and in a way always understand. He must of felt safe around them, his friends were animals. Now he was still a child and what would a sheltered child play? Pretend of course! Imagine a young Tanaka alone in the woods, he is a lord of darkness and the Animals were his army of sorts. The "Tanaka Empire" In time this was his persona, this would be how he would talk and interact with them.

As the years went on Gundham became pretty much a socially awkward person, he understood every animal except for humans. He interacts with humans the same way he would with Animals but instead of making them allies he puts them as enemies of sorts. Why is that? Well, we know how kids are. Tanaka was most likely bullied in grade school. The other kids thought he was weird and distant. He most likely felt like he didn't belong with humans so decides to stick with animals.

""Truly I am mankind's natural foe! Evil incarnate! A walking cataclysm! A shapeless insanity! GUNDHAM TANAKA!""

His interactions with people was most likely little before he entered Hope's Peak Academy. At Hope's Peak he was most likely still a outsider, he didn't belong, he acted like he didn't care but he really did. He wanted to belong no matter what, then comes Junko. Someone who was most likely amused by his antics and played along with him, someone who would become his first friend and the second human he could trust other than his mother. Sadly Junko was just using him and he didn't want to lose the only place he felt he belonged, he became Ultimate Despair.

Now to the Tanaka we know, he didn't know how to deal with people so when he came to the Island he acted like he normally would but as time went one and the killings happen Tanaka was placed in a situation he was never placed in before. He had to learn to trust people, sure he kept up the whole super villain persona but in time realized that he truly cared for all these people to the point where he risked his life to save them. I would explain that more but /u/TsundereKermit
 Does it so much better.

Tanaka is a fan favorite because he's so over the top but it works! Instead of annoying he comes off as cute, funny, dorky and just awesome :3 Sadly his over the type personality was the reason he didn't make it to the end of the game. Usually the more "normal" Characters survive. These are my thoughts and views on Tanaka and why I love him! :D

Gundham was probably one of the highlights of the second game for me at one point, but his whole character arc just left me feeling so unsatisfied. Kazuichi too - when they introduced him I thought "ah, well here is a guy who could be really useful". Nah, let's just shove them to the side in one of the most forced love triangles ever with the blandest girl on the island (Sonia too really suffers because of this - it's really not her fault). For comedy! Really?

Gundham proved he could have been a total badass if the developers could be bothered, but even in Chapter 4, I didn't suspect him at all because he was victim to some really lazy character development. I might have even liked the love triangle if they made some effort to make it believable/didn't force it down everyone's throat to distract us from the fact that three characters with a lot of potential had been reduced to bickering over each other. Komahina was so subtle yet believable and barely took up any of the narrative, allowing time to develop both characters really well. So yeah. It's frustrating. You like a character and they end up doing NOTHING for an entire game and then just dying because they're just there for comedy.

Also can someone tell me their theories in regards to why Gundham joined the Ultimate Despair? I'd like to hear them.

I don't think we have anything on any character's joining Ultimate Despair except for Mikan and Izuru, and that's including Nagito who we SAW as a Remnant in UDG. So, you got me.

But if I were to guess, most of the cast of DR2 felt the emotion of loneliness in some way, and it's real easy for lonely people to try and latch on to something to feel like they belong or like they have purpose. Would have been real easy for Junko to launch a cult from that ideal.

You see Hope's Peak Academy seems like a really great friendly place, based on everyone's interactions with each other in the first and second games. It makes me wonder how corrupt the academy actually was to push so many students to those extremes :(

[S]Well, more like Junko. I don't think the Academy was actually shown to be pushing students, most of it was the students own miserable lives where they were at a low point to be taken advantage of and Junko was there at the perfect time.

The worst case for mistreatment canonically is the Reserve Dept since they were looked down upon and were only seen as a source of revenue basically.

I really don't know why he did. He seems the kind of guy who wouldn't ever fall to despair and I remember seeing a fan theory where Gundam was one of the last to fall in despair, that he felt defeated because everyone else gave into Junko.

I think this theory is sort of true. I can imagine him being one of the last if not the last because he became lonely. He felt excluded and the person - Junko - who, from his view, cared about him wasn't there anymore. Gundham is a guy who ate his mother's terrible cooking so she didn't cry. He really doesn't want others to feel bad because he knows what it was like so it must have taken something really big to convince him to join up

Do you even need to ask

I always though Gundham was a fun guy. Even in the few occasions when he's making jabs at people he's usually calling them "normal" compared to himself. In spite of pretending to be the embodiment of evil, it's obvious he's actually a nice guy. He was also quite attentive, particularly to others. Just from Nekomaru's reaction to seeing him, he knew his challenge was accepted.

As far as I could tell, he covered everything in a layer of fantasy because his actual life was not very interesting. By making everything sound hammy and strange, interacting with him becomes much more interesting than if he was just the nice guy with cute pets.

Is it confirmed anywhere that Gundham did in fact use the Dark Devas to press the Nekomaru's button or does everyone just ASSUME he was lying about it to continue maintaining his image?

[S]Assume he was lying about it? What? The entire basis and final nail to confirm Gundham as the killer was that he did use the Dark Devas to push the button, nobody assumes he lied about it.

It's basically stated in the trial itself.

What I mean is

After they all say he used the Dark Devas to press the button, Gundham admits to the murder but claims he did not in fact use the Dark Devas to press the button. It's never actually confirmed which is true IIRC, but everyone acts as if it was definitely confirmed that Gundham was lying and did definitely use the hamsters in the crime. I was wondering if I was misremembering definitive confirmation.

Everyone saying that's how it happened isn't really great evidence. He could theoretically have pressed the button on his own (not in nearly as dramatic of fashion as he claimed, of course, it really only requires a misstep by Nekomaru who probably isn't instinctively thinking about his button at this point) and the kids infer things with no strong evidence all the time lol

"Not just myself, but you actually brought up how splendid my subordinates are...Hmph, I have no recourse but to admit it."

The line he says at the end of the trial implies he admits how he pulled it off. I don't feel he would have brought that up if it was incorrect, especially considering the fact that his greater goal here was having the group properly nail down the motive and see the whole point behind him not confessing during the trial. Having said that, every single bit of evidence used to implicate Gundham is conjecture. Being out of his room makes him suspicious, but it doesn't directly prove that he's the one that murdered Nekomaru.

Any other person in a Deluxe room could have just made it to their room and gotten lucky with Tanaka being out of his room. It's not as efficient, but someone in a standard or crummy room could have pulled off the murder as well.

They then say that the killer obtained tools from the octagon, but it doesn't explore the possibility of a person clearing it while another person gets something from that person. That one is admittedly more of a stretch, but their claim still doesn't directly prove it was Gundham. There's also the fact that Akane and Fuyuhiko both gave extremely important testimony during the trial with absolutely no evidence supporting it while the group just goes with it and Gundham didn't push against it even once during the trial.

Finally, the point about the hamsters can explain how he could pull off the murder, but there was no proof that that's actually what happened. Even the act of using your hamsters is harder than the game makes it out to be because it only takes a second for Nekomaru to brush them off and he knows Gundham is gonna go for his button since it's his only shot at winning. That also ignores the fact that Gundham isn't at full strength from being starved to death, the fact that he's at a ~100 lb weight disadvantage and also against the ultimate Team Manager who has shown to have been well versed in different fighting styles, and so on.

I don't think whether Gundham used his Hamsters or not makes a difference, since relying on his strength likely would have gotten killed against him. I think the more respectable thing is how shaky the evidence was against him and how quickly he just caved and was just "yeah, you're right" at the end despite how many opportunities he was given to really push through and save himself.

I want to believe he honestly defeated Nekomaeu with his own strength.

I don't personally have much preference one way or the other--both are interesting and plausible imo. I just don't like people acting like it was 100% confirmed that Gundham was lying when as far as I can remember it's deliberately left ambiguous.

He's honestly one of the most boring and annoying characters in DR2, I don't know why you all liked him, he literally says almost the same damn thing every time he get a chance to.

Yeah the Dark Devas hell bullshit is funny and all, but you know what's annoying? IF YOU REPEAT IT FOR THE WHOLE GAME. I mean I guess it's ok if you do it every now and then, but he says it every god damn time, and it fills up like 1-2 full chat boxes every time he says it. Like ok game I fucking get it, but you're beating some kind of a dead horse here.

Character Discussion #8 - Nagito Komaeda (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Nagito Komaeda

Talent: Lucky Student

Game: DR2 Goodbye Despair

Status: Comatose

Notable Roles:

Sets up the first murder to drive everyone to strive for a stronger hope, manipulating Byakuya Togami

Plan is interrupted and foiled due to Byakuya Togami's efforts in Ch 1

Is tied up for everyone's safety in Ch 2 by Nekomaru Nidai and Kazuichi Soda

Rings along all the relevant girls in Ch 2 for Hajime Hinata to speak with

Comes down with the Despair Disease in Ch 3, specifically the Lying Disease

Is personally vested in Ch 3's Trial due to the murder being done for despair, not hope

Completes the Final Dead Room on highest difficulty to discover secret of the Funhouse in Ch 4 as well as the true identity of everyone being a part of Ultimate Despair, leading to a reversal in attitude towards the survivors

Seeks to weed out the traitor in Ch 5 through a bomb feint, before setting forth a plan that would involve his murder through poison that would seemingly look like a suicide

Hajime's memory of him in Ch 0 is used to prove their past as Ultimate Despair

Discuss anything pertaining Nagito Komaeda, the Ultimate Lucky Student!

Character Order for Discussions

Nagito I'd say is one of the most interesting and definitely carefully designed characters in the series. He's essentially bizarro Makoto, yes. But one thing I found particularly interesting is part of why I think several people don't care for him. I think the first thing to understand is that, despite all the crazy mood swings he goes through, Nagito is a pretty static character—in fact, he's probably one of the most static characters in the game. That's odd, considering how all over the place he is, but when you look back, we're given a set of traits he embodies and rather than having those wildly change, they actually keep him pretty much the same throughout the whole game. Nagito even says in the end of chapter 4 that his way of thinking will never change. He's not like Fuyuhiko, who is given a set of characteristics and then having some of them actively change after a turning point. Nagito is the same person just reacting to wildly different scenarios, but the player wouldn't be able to realize this fact until the end of the game. Danganronpa 2 deliberately uses this and his generally shitty ability to communicate with others and uses it to misdirect the player. Had they shown any other ultimate despair at the start of chapter 6 aside from Nagito, that scene would have given away too much. They knew players would just write it off as Nagito being crazy as always. He and Mikan are carefully designed to throw people off the trail.

Nagito is also pretty much the only person that can outright say his plan to everyone (I'm going after the traitor) and still not have anyone fall for it. He knows there's a disconnect between him and everyone else, and he can exploit it too. So why all this craziness? On the surface, we know that Nagito is terminally ill, and with something like dementia, he's already going to have to deal with a lot. But the game doesn't really bank much on terminal illness for his behavior. First off, the guy has incredibly low self-esteem. Despite the fact that he's incredibly intelligent—arguably the most intelligent student on the island up there with maybe the ultimate imposter—he's very quick to write himself off as useless and worthless. He could succeed at pretty much any field, but genuinely believes that effort only will work for someone born worthy. I don't honestly think that Nagito's root mindset is that unrealistic. I think it's exaggerated for obvious reasons because it's fun, however. Anyone locked into things like systematic poverty or any kind of social or economic barrier has felt what Nagito has. Nagito is the ultimate lucky student and his past is full of major events that are beyond his control. He can have good things happen to him too, clearly. But the bigger thing is that the more these things affect him, the less he feels he has influence over the world. He feels he just has to take whatever life throws at him. No loved ones either, by the way.

Nagito is like the student met with hardship their whole lives and lucked out and got a big scholarship to a wealthy university. You are clearly blessed with good fortune, but when you get to that school, you're going to be met with lots of students in more stable environments financially and socially, and that disconnect is clearly going to gnaw at you very quickly. Nagito's luck is used as an extension of whatever kind of hardships there are. Not everyone at hope's peak is wealthy nor do they even come from stable environments, but Nagito sees that as them having the ability to overcome their trials and become better. Their hope shines even brighter, right? They're simply all better than him. For Nagito, this gets twisted to the point where the students stop becoming loved ones and classmates—they're game pieces for hope. That's how he can just say "oh well, she's dying. At least we can use her as fuel for hope."

Nagito is incredibly depressed too. Being willing to be harsh on yourself, throw yourself into dangerous situations, and needing contests to define your own worth isn't unheard of. His depression is largely what drives him to enter the final dead room. He went in because he didn't want the others risking his life, and he's constantly thinking of how he can be useful. In the trials, you may notice that Nagito goes around and--at the very least—gathers the more obscure evidence to make sure everyone is at least capable of figuring out the trial. For example, he gathers the gummies and footprints in trial 2. He makes sure Hajime gets the threatening letter but doesn't discover the too-easy-to-figure-out secret passage in trial 1. He acts like a second moderator despite participating in the trial. He realizes there's no trial to overcome if everyone doesn't have all the pieces needed, so he gathers them first and then sets everyone free as if he was doing an experiment. This is all with the exception of trial 3, where he clearly sides against ultimate despair, but because Hajime has evidence that only he can use, the trial progresses with Hajime talking and Nagito giving him another push whenever he gets stuck. He also went out of his way to protect Hajime in the beginning of the trial by proving he can't be the killer. It still goes back to seeing everyone as game pieces, but he stops acting as a moderator for this trial.

All of this is just a nice way to represent the mindset of people invested in talent, invested in just being strung along with only hope. Everyone heaps up and obsesses over hope's peak because it's an ideal. It's like obsessing over a certain career, a certain body type, or any kind of status symbol that promises acceptance and success. It's interesting to think that Nagito flew through the hardest trials in the series like they were nothing, that he would have easily been a survivor, and that he was so quick to throw that away. I imagine part of the reason he carried out such a horrifyingly painful suicide plan was a way to punish himself for becoming ultimate despair and not being good enough for hope.

Nagito has a disconnect with everyone. While he genuinely believes he is doing the right thing and helping everyone, he doesn't catch when he's being insensitive, so he's not trying to insult people most of the time. Additionally, one part I love about this game is when you see Nagito's message after trial 5. Where he tells everyone to praise him and call him the ultimate hope for his deeds. The students clearly see this as him going crazy and being the super hammy villain. However, from his perspective, his only goal was taking out the ultimate despair members, including himself. He wanted to finish what the future foundation started, so from an outsider's perspective without any context, being the guy that killed off ultimate despair really would have you down as a hero.

The only other big thing I can think of is that Nagito consistently gets one thing wrong in pretty much each trial. The motives. While he can usually deduce who the killer is (before the trial even begins most likely), Nagito pretty much always has to be corrected when he makes an assumption on why the killer committed their crime. In Mikan's, he misses the point that she acted out of love. With Peko's he missed the point that she's not an accomplice but is suggesting she is a tool only to be used for Fuyuhiko's purposes. With Gundham's he misses the entire point completely. He doesn't even bother with Teruteru's, only thinking about the hope Teruteru was apparently fighting for.

That's Nagito. He's a representative of the outside world's view of chasing an ideal (being talented, earning success, having a certain body type, being in a relationship, etc) as a means of having self worth brought on by misfortune despite everything he does have. There's a little Nagito in us all, I feel.

On a side note, the best moment to establish Nagito is definitely in trial 1 when you face him in rebuttal showdown. No, that's wrong.

Holy shit that was great. Curious have you played Ultra Despair Girls? I would love for to hear your thoughts on Nagito's portrayal in that game.

Also I would like to ask you, do you think Nagito truly, genuinely succumbed to despair and gave up on hope when he became an Ultimate Despair? I'm having a hard time fathoming how someone so twisted and obsessed with hope could turn his back on it.

I don't think he truly gave up on hope. He says in his FTEs that hope and despair are not opposites. He sees despair as a means to hope the way Junko sees hope as a means of despair.

Junko created hope, not because she supports or believes in it, but because the higher people build up their hopes, the more disappointment they'll experience. Nagito believes the opposite. The more hardship you go through, the more hope you'll gain through overcoming it. That's why he was cool with becoming ultimate despair, which he gradually slipped into not identifying as the opposite of hope. Thus, by creating huge amounts of despair and letting it grow, burning it down to the roots will result in more hope.

I don't think he turned his back on his hope, but instead believes so much in it that it doesn't matter what sides everyone takes since hope will win in the end.

You've just made me realize that I have misunderstood Nagito's character this whole time.

I see. If what I said helped see something new, then I'm glad. That's what these posts are all about--they give us more appreciation for such a great series.

If you caught my stupid little video I made last week, you have a head start on what I think about Nagito. Honestly, my opinion of him has been turning around in the months since I played DR2; there are likeable things about him, he has an element of nuance. But whatever nuance he has is swallowed up by all the hopeity hope-isms he keeps spouting.

That's a shame, because his introduction is absolutely fantastic. "But he looks and acts kind of like Makoto from the first game, who you hate!" Well, that's just it. It's a direct role inversion. You don't play as the Lucky Student this time. Instead, he's the first character you physically see. So you already feel like a fish out of water. If Nagito is the Lucky Student, the Makoto of the game, is Hajime, whose talent is unknown, the Kyoko? Something is definitely not right here. Like, on top of the killer bear thing.

Even as he's leading you around the island, introducing you to everyone, you get the feeling something is not right with Nagito. He immediately contrasts greatly to the rest of the cast, both in his visual design and in his personality. He's very quick to put himself down for not having much in the way of talent, whereas everyone else is secure in that, and though he appears very kind, there's some persistent skeleton in the closet following him around which is making him act rather mopey. There's something subversively unnerving about him that adds an element of eerieness to the outright paranoia of the killing game. Apparently his initial design was based on the shinigami, the Japanese personification of death, and now that it's been pointed out to me...uh, yeah.

Then you get to the midway point of the first trial, you hear that awesome cackle, and his character goes downhill fast. At this point, Nagito reveals that he's chasing hope, and he believes the current situation is great because it's hope's offset against the deepest despair that will make it shine ever brighter...or something. Look, I'm not going to dance around this. I think this is a dumb angle. The "hope vs. despair" dichotomy is the most anime-ish trope Danganronpa is saddled with, and is probably my least favourite persistent aspect of the entire series. Why? Because you can't simply talk about any old situation in those two terms and those terms only.

Well, DR2 has a character that does just that, and he very quickly wears out his welcome. Nagito is very clearly detached from the plane of reality the rest of the characters reside in, and while there's a case to be made about he's meant to be obviously distant from everyone else, there's just no real point to latch onto Nagito from when every little thing from then on is just a matter of blooming the vague, abstract idea of "hope" to him. There's not an ounce of pragmatism to the character, and because of that, there's no realism to him, and it makes me wonder if his diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia is more an easy explanation for his behaviour than a way to give him a tragic backstory.

Because he has a suuuuuper tragic backstory. You get the impression that he must have gone though a trauma conga line if his mental state is so fractured from that point, and if you make the effort to play through his Island Mode, you will get the whole nine yards. You know. It starts off with his dog being run over, continues on to giving him a terminal disease, and ends with him professing he had a death wish at one point. It generates sympathy for the character, and not exactly in a tacky way. He's doing the best he can with the outlook he's been given by what fate has done unto him, and Hajime expresses even past Chapter 1 that there is something to be sorry for in Nagito, despite his...tendencies.

Sadly, his character is mostly static from that point on until Chapter 4, including when he is tied up in the room where Twogami died, which I think is a shame. He has many points where he and Hajime are the only people in whatever location they're at, but he doesn't show much more dimension than during the trials where he just shouts "HOPE HOPE HOPE" over and over. I guess there's something about Nagito's attachment to Hajime's leadership and his wildcard element, the latter of which pays off beautifully.

Playing as Nagito in Chapter 4 adds more to the game than you'd think. For one, it shows the guy has his own agenda and agency, because he takes it upon himself to enter the Living Dead Room looking for answers, and you get a clear look into his thought processes, notably why he acts how he acts. The player solving the puzzle is accompanied by Nagito's approach to it. He's cold, but not detached from proceedings. He's simply so involved there's no space for Monomi to really approach and help out, especially when he's mad enough to not realise that Russian Roulette is generally played with only one bullet in the clip. But for playing on maximum difficulty, he gets the ultimate prize. We don't know what it is, but it turns out the key to the entire premise of the killing game. And once Nagito realise what he's been fighting for this whole time, he changes.

He starts off by saying very bluntly that Hajime has no Ultimate talent; he is a Reserve student, and as Nagito believes, much like the Hope's Peak administrative body, that Ultimates represent the hope for the future, his opinion of Hajime drops like a rock when he finds out he has no latent abilities. And I love how scathing Nagito becomes to Hajime the very second he finds this out, and how he rubs it in at every opportunity while Hajime is undergoing an existential crisis, because it reinforces both characters wonderfully, and Nagito, true to form, makes this plot point hit hard despite no one else in the cast caring.

I like this move a lot because it strips away the pretence. Whatever layers of sympathy he had are taken away by the time he's taunting Akane over Nekomaru and getting the entire crew to go on a wild goose chase over a bomb. When he realises what it's all worth, he goes on this nihilistic rampage and enacts a very convoluted, but perfectly in-character, plan to kill himself and pin the blame on the Future Foundation representative through use of loopholes in the killing game and his own luck that it would be Chiaki to throw the poison that kills him. And I like that his intention can be taken in both ways. If he was successful in making Chiaki go through to win the game, it would eliminate the Remnants of Despair. But when the class figured it out, they were plunged into the deepest despair possible, because one of their friends had done something almost unimaginable, but so despicable, and they had to send yet another friend to their death while she had to smile the whole way through. And after all, it's only from the deepest despair that hope can shine the brightest. So either way, I think Nagito gets his wish, and I can appreciate a ridiculous gambit that works even if the outcome didn't seem intended, because it highlights how devious the enactor of that scheme can really be.

So I do like quite a few aspects of Nagito's character, but the main thrust of his writing just isn't subtle enough. It's not even close. I keep going back and forth on which of the two main games I prefer, but Nagito alone is probably enough to swing my preference to the first one. It's not just that his mannerisms are unbelievable, but that the weight of his presence was so manufactured. The writers really wanted Nagito to be the standout star of the game, and he's just too transparent. I think it says something that he's the one Remnant that pops up in Another Episode, and while his terminology is different, his personality is basically the same, just non-stop riddles and euphemisms. Fucking come on, he's meant to be part of a group that had a large hand in destroying the world!

Speaking of hands, why did they go to lengths to try and play coy about the fact that he is Nagito? He only appears as "Servant" during the game, and he's wearing a mitten on his left hand, because obviously, it is Junko's. But why? To protect everyone who hadn't played the second one? I feel like there's still too much given away in AE to really protect the sanctity of DR2's plot. If you play AE, then play 2 and see the Servant staring at you when you start the game, it'll probably give away in some capacity that this is not a real school trip.

Wonderful post, completely agree (except for preferring DR1, it's not even close for me)

So I already made two comments before about Nagito before so Im just going to say why I like him this time mostly because I noticed I forgot to reply to /u/guiles-theme
... .

So Nagito. Ah yes, Nagito. You either love him or hate him from what I've seen. There is almost no in between for him. For me I love him. He's a nicely written example of how to write a mentally ill character. He's crazy enough that when you say he's mentally ill you believe it, but he also acts like a person enough that he's not a total sick character stereo type.

Now it might just be because I aim to be a doctor and I myself am a chronically ill person, but I love the fact that Nagito shows enough of the traits of his dissorder, BvFTD, that you can figure it out with some research and that it's also a REAL disorder rather than some made up one that the character only has for sympathy sake. I also like the fact that despite the fact that his character basically revolves around his disorder his disorder doesn't overtake his character. By that I mean that Nagito is memorable for the shit he does rather than "oh hey it's the one that's sick and is going to die in about 3 years'. Instead you remember him for trying to be the first murder, fucking killing himself, and just generally being a snarky little shit. Oh, and the fact that he's a snarky little shit is also refreshing. He's not some sick guy that has a heart of gold, he's a sick guy that doesn't give a shit and manipulates you if he has to.

What I find most writers seem to forget when writing a sick person is to A) actually do research and not just add it to a character to make them more sad and B) make the character a person. Actually have the disease affect them rather than just having the ONE symptom of coughing up blood. As you could probably tell from the end of the paragraph above, I also hate it when ALL of the sick characters are sweet little angels. That's not how it is all the time. Most of the time having a sickness makes you feel bitter and angry. It may not always show, but it does. People that don't have illnesses, especially doctors, that say "you shouldn't let your illness rule your life" are full of sappy crap. Some people have to schedule their whole life around their illness BECAUSE they can't control it, but are aware enough that they can work around it. Then there are people like Nagito that are aware they are sick, but can't do much about it because their personality is being altered because of it.

I'll admit at the start of the game I just hanged out with him because I thought he was a cute little cinnamon bun. After he showed how he really is I did get a bit freaked out, but I decided to continue with his hope route and, boy, am I glad I did. As I got to know Nagito at first I thought he was just a stereotypical, yet nicely done, crazy character, but when he made the off handed joke about being seriously sick I sort of...felt really sad. It reminded me of myself a bit. I've made jokes like that too where I've wanted to tell someone what was happening with me, but I didn't want to get any sad looks or be treated differently. I wish he would have told Hajime everything, but I can understand why he didn't. He didn't want to get his sad looks from someone he was getting close to.

In the end his illness doesn't excuse the attempt he made of Twogami's life or the fact that the reason the killings started this time was his fault. He's shown that, while his perception and mind are altered, he can still make choices of his own and some of those choices are just down right shitty.

Sorry that this was a little very sappy. Nagito's just my favorite because I relate to him a lot. Well, other than all the death and luck. Sorry if this wasn't all that coherent. Writing isn't my strong point.

Reposting what I said from another thread:

Nagito is just stuck in a cycle of good and bad luck, so while he does experience great fortune, bad shit still happens to him all the time. He wants his die because of this but he wants his death to mean something so he wants to die for hope. I actually think this is an extremely interesting idea for a "lucky student" on paper

That's about all the good I can say on Nagito's character. I really dislike him and don't think he's all that well-written (and nobody say the whole "Well the writers WANTED you to hate him which means he's well-written!!!")

I guess I'll say a little more good about him. It was clever how he was set up as the "obvious first killer" and then ended up sticking around. It's cool to have a wild card around during the entire game

However, it's clear the writers didn't know what to do with him until Chapter 5. He literally just screams "hope" or "despair" every time you see him and given that this shoved down your throat "theme" is my least favorite part of the series, you can see why the character would get on my nerves

It's clear that the writers had trouble finding something for him to do because he has a different significant role every chapter. First chapter is obvious, second chapter he's tied up (which isn't "significant", but it keeps him out of the plot), third chapter he's one of the three sick people, and fourth he's playable

But there's one big, critical problem I have with Nagito's character: he has no reason for anything he does. Someone might respond "it's all for hope!" and that's my problem. The writers could literally have Nagito do any contradictory or detrimental action and say he was doing it for hope to keep his character consistent, but it just ends up with a shitty character

"Teruteru wants to help the one he loves? He's doing it for hope! I must assist him in the murder! Mikan is trying to help the one she loves! Well, she was infected with a disease with the name "despair" in the title, therefore she's doing it for despair! I must stop her!" Not the best example but you get the idea. Helping the killer in any case would've been a horrible idea in his "all in the name of hope" escapades because he'd literally kill all of the ultimates. If he truly wanted to see which hope would win, he'd remain silent in every trial and not participate at all. He's always a big factor in finding the killer

A perfect example is from UDG, which is my least favorite of the series. He saves Monaca, the ultimate incarnation of despair, from dying. He does this because he wants to see an even stronger hope rise up to defeat her.....even though Komaru just defeated her. The writers literally needed to have someone save Monaca right there so they just had Nagito do it and say he did it for hope

That is frankly shit writing and a perfect example of why I hate his character--he barely has one despite being the second most important one in the game. He's just a slave to the plot, forced to dance on the puppet strings of the writing

Yes we can throw in the "mentally ill" card but that only takes us so far and is a bit of a cop-out. Is he mentally ill? Undoubtedly. But as you said, his actions and intentions don't line up at all

Though I did like his turn against Hajime in Chapter 4 and enjoyed playing as him

Nagito is one of my favorite characters. I really like how brillant, manipulative and twisted he is. People usually dislike him because he end causing the death of nanami but why don't you view his characterization? He is one of the most immersive characters in the series, also as people thinks nagito is one of the villains, i might think he is a anti-hero. First, he decided to do something after knowing that the students in the jabberwock island are the remnants of despair. It was his selfish way to do the things but his motives are clearly understandable giving the situation he was in. Also, just like i end understanding Mikan and now she is one of my favorite characters, how about we understand Nagito? He clearly have a story of good and bad luck. Not to mention, he didn't had a good relationship with his parents and neither friends. So all those stuff that happeend with him end making he think he was useless and worthless. Not to mention he is sick and have health problems. He is a good character. When you find out more things about him, his past and his motives, you cannot help but to sympathize with him.

Personally, I'm not all that fond of him. A lot of the comments here are discussing his character in general, but I'd like to talk more about how he functions as an element in the story itself.

He's the story's wild card, and he's implemented pretty well. The poster has already made a list of his more notable aspects in the story, but I'll go into a little more detail. But before that, I should also say that this story, as a sequel, does a fantastic job of being what it is! DR2 takes what was previously established and pushes it further. And for a mystery game, that's pretty difficult. It took what we knew, used it, and twisted it into something else, but still resembles the original enough to be called a Dangan Ronpa story.

Nagito was something of the game's - the sequel's - personification. Who is this character? Why does he look like Naegi? Hang on, is he actually Naegi? He keeps talking about hope! What happened to you, Naegi?! You've gone batshit fucking crazy! I hope it wasn't just me having those thoughts, but they translate almost exactly from how we also feel in this story. Monokuma?! What's he doing here?! Wait, but isn't Junko dead? What's happening? Why are we on an island? Why is another killing game happening? Wait, Togami?! What the fuck?! You got fat! Holy shit, the talking rabbit just turned a chicken into a cow!

[S] 
That was one of the goals behind the sequel though, wasn't it? Invert everything and play with expectations? That was one of the reasons Byakuya was brought back iirc, stated by the devs to draw in fans of the previous game and make them think what is Byakuya doing here?

Though I thought there'd be more between Nagito and Makoto, imagine them actually in the same scene.

[S]I like Nagito, I like the uncertainty and element of surprise he always brought, and the cast itself was aware of this. When everyone thought they figured out the secrets behind the murder in Ch 5, Hajime continued forward off the sole basis that since it was freaking Nagito, it couldn't be that simple.

So I'm gonna go into another aspect of Nagito since I think everyone will be up in arms regarding his characterization and personality, but Nagito has one of the best character designs imo. I just love his look in official art with the hoodie that sort of pixellates and trails off, his shirt, the chain, in comparison his actually sprite work is a step down but I still adore it.

I adore his visual design. His costume practically mirrors that of Makoto, but his sprawling white hair is actually a giveaway to his nature, but I actually think it's one that sneaks under the radar. Because...well, let me explain.

Danganronpa is a Japanese franchise, but it also takes a lot of cues from Western convention, certainly more than, say...Shin Megami Tensei. Maybe this is just because I just replayed Persona 4, but that game takes a lot of influence from Japanese mythology and sprinkles it throughout the entire game. If Nagito had appeared in that, I'd have pegged him as the TV Killer because of his hair alone. The ultimate final boss of Persona 4 has white hair, and Persona 4 spoilers

Danganronpa cribs from a lot more influences, so the more homegrown nods tend to sneak in. Many people miss that Ibuki's design is based on the oni, and I completely missed that Nagito's design is based on the shinigami until it was pointed out to me, at which point it seemed so obvious to me.

I always thought it was odd how competent he is. He's a normal, talentless dude... who knows how to wire a truck to bombs to a laptop to a timer, but actually it was fireworks.

[S]Doesn't it make sense? Belief of him being normal is just his own assessment of his self worth since he has such a low opinion of himself, when in fact he is extremely intelligent. However, this intelligence doesn't directly translate into any talent, he's just smart but he doesn't excel extremely in a specific role.

However the one talent he does exceed in its category is his extraordinary luck, hence his placement.

I think it would have worked if they stopped even once to say, "wait how can Nagito even do this?", even just as a joke. They didn't, so it sticks out.

It's almost ironic that he got in for luck rather than for an actual talent...

I don't know if it's ironic so much as it doesn't make sense.

The duality of him is probably his most interesting point. He loves hope, but works to bring despair. He says he has no talent, and thus no value, but is fairly competent at many things and ends up being one of the main players in many trials.

But the biggest thing is his luck, huge unlucky events interspersed with good luck. For whatever reason Nagito seems to think it's some kind of equivalent exchange, but what if it's not? When he died, it could be interpreted as bad luck since things didn't work out the way Nagito wanted... Or it could be because of good luck that he failed and everything turned out for the better. He simply wasn't aware that they were in a simulation and the Ultimate Despair was about to hijack their bodies, and that the "traitor" was an AI who would be unable to graduate.

Maybe it's always been that way, from Nagito's perspective things seem like they flip between good and bad luck, but due to circumstances he wasn't aware of the "negative" events are also beneficial. Since we only hear about his life from his perspective, we would never find out those aspects, but it could be an interesting angle to examine.

Probably my favourite character in the whole series, aside from Ibuki of course. Was actually creeped out with how his hair was designed and coloured, and then I thought hey this guy is nice at least, then the first trial happened.

He provides alot of mysteries and suspense, the most intelligent yet crazy guy in the game. He is fucking unique, I like crazy characters, Toko is fucking crazy but she is quite predictable, she resembles Jinx (League of Legends) alot and I wasn't that surprised. Nagito on the other hand, is fucking one of a kind, like I can't express how unpredictably enjoyed I am whenever he does some weird shit.

Character Discussion #9 - Kurokuma (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Kurokuma

Talent: N/A

Game: Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Adviser for the Warriors of Hope

One half of AI Junko

Discuss anything pertaining Kurokuma, the Adviser for the Warriors of Hope!

Character Order for Discussions

This character is almost like a representation for one of my biggest gripes of Another Episode/Ultra Despair Girls: How it handles its characters.

A lot of characters that were hyped up in promos for this spin off have either little to no screen time, development, or character. Arguably the same could be said for the new characters that are part of the main cast, since most of their development (in the case of the Warriors of Hope) are all loaded into their final showdown, with the exception of two (Not really counting Monaca). Now, I know you're all thinking 'What are you complaining about? It's not like this is the first time the rug has been pulled from under us, look at Togami!' It's just lame as all hell when this happens to so many characters, Asahina's brother, Hagakure's mom and Fujisaki's dad which I'm forever salty about. Shirokuma had some decent screentime at least in comparison. So Kurokuma was shown along with Shirokuma and the opposite duality theme between the two was very clear, and with one being with the adults and the other being with the kids I assumed they'd have a bigger role. Shirokuma sorta did, Kurokuma lolnope.

I loved this promo art and am sad it wasn't really a thing. I know I shouldn't be using promo art as evidence but damnit look at this group all together! Especially love Shirokuma here.

So about Kurokuma. Yeah he sorta sucks, didn't enjoy his presence at all. The most interesting thing about him is that he's half of AI Junko and he gets to get rekt by my man Izuru Kamakura, so there's that. So glad Komaeda wasn't the only SHSL Despair dude to show up, and it tied nicely into Goodbye Despair what with Kamakura having AI Junko now.

The black bear, right? Talked with the most ridiculous Midwest accent since Labrys in Persona 4 Arena? I mean...he had a few funny jokes, but...did he even do anything?

Actually, I'll say this for the both of them; their visual design was great. They're each one complete colour instead of being divided into two, they have coverings for their "false" eye. Whatever, just a nice inversion of the accepted Monokuma aesthetic.

[S]Yeah the all black one, and same, he hardly actually did anything lol

At least his sprites were funny too? Had that ridiculous cigar.

I don't imagine this character will generate too much discussion.

So after the events of DR, Monokuma decided to settle down a bit. He went back to chill for a bit, went back in the dating world, and decided to marry Fran Drescher.

They settled down, moved out to a wealthy white suburb, and had a child.

That child is Kurokuma.

That's the only explanation I can think of for such a forgettable, annoying character. He just made rap jokes, had a laugh, and sounded like a stereotypical old Jewish woman that had been smoking too much. His personality was basically a white kid in the suburbs that listened to Lil Wayne and Drake and now decided that he's a badass.

I just didn't find him memorable or that likable, to be honest.

I really think Kurokuma was the more redundant of the pair of Junko's AIs.

I mean, sure, the Warriors of Hope needed to be guided when Monoca couldn't convince them to get "defeated" by Komaru and Toko, but that almost never happened. So, Kurokuma literally spent the whole game griping about stupid things in a terrible Boston accent, while Monoca manipulated the Warriors of Hope with very few problems. Shirokuma on the other hand, pretty much engineered the issues that the adults had by: Putting them all in one place to be horribly attacked, Completely convincing the adults' leader that he was a special and important ally, and making Komaru and Toko go off on pointless missions so that he could continue to influence the adults' reactions and blame the girls for everyone's problems.

So, yeah, Kurokuma you may be a little bit funny, but, you really seemed useless by the end.

The little hills thing?? Why?? Monaca is??? 12???

MONACA!! WON'T!! TOLERATE!! THIS!! BULLSHIT!!

[S]Oops I'm a day late.

I don't think it'd have much an impact regardless, since Kurokuma overall felt like he had such a tiny role in the plot proper. His design is pretty funny though, maybe if he was a tad more relevant like Shirokuma.

I'm always surprised how fast people respond to these discussion threads, this one had 7 comments on the first day despite the minor role of the character...

[S] 
I'm surprised too, I often post these in the middle of night and people still respond in a bit, guess there're a lot of night time lurkers like me!

And yeah, this thread's already got more comments than poor Monomi. Looks like almost everyone's banding together on how lame Kurokuma is.

He's a weirdo. I think he's supposed to be half of Monokuma, so it shouldn't be too surprising. He would be the half that boasts a lot, and encourages murder without actually doing anything, as opposed to Shirokuma who has a more reasonable self-image and discourages killing, but takes matters into his own hands when things go south. Ultimately Kurokuma talks a big game but can't even speak without permission, making it hard for him TO have an impact on the story.

It seems like Junko was trying to create some kind of backstory for Monokuma with the two bears, but later decided to rewrite it later like all the monokuma fanfics she made.

Also, I just wanted to add: Kurokuma has the most ridiculous design ever.

Still haven't beaten Ultra Despair Girls but Kurokuma does absolutely nothing for me. He's honestly barely a character to the point I forget he even exists. At least Shirokuma actually does stuff, Kurokuma on the other hand just...makes jokes. Albeit every once in a while something he says can be funny, being completely forgettable is one of the biggest offenses a character can be for me.

Seriously does Kurokuma do ANYTHING?!

Yes of course Kurokuma was so irrelevant I mean he's only the Bigger Bad of this game and the one who gave Monaka the idea of operation: Junko mk2. sarcasm

I see some people complain about the voice, so it must be the dubbed one, since Kurokuma's JPN voice is the same as Junko's.

The thing is, if Kurokuma is a schemer, it still makes him a little redundant. Monaka still got most of her ideas from when Junko visited the Warriors personally, and it's not like she really needed whatever inspiration Kurokuma provided.

Conpare that to Shirokuma, who shows up multiple times, performs actions to propel the story and has a character arc. It's not a great character arc, but it's there.

I just think the character is pointless. The game would be the same without him.

who is kurokuma some variation of monokuma?

Character Discussion #2 - Mondo Owada (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Mondo Owada

Talent: Biker Gang Leader

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Knocks Makoto Naegi out initially

Guards the crime scene with Sakura Ogami in Ch 1

Forms a bond of friendship with Kiyotaka Ishimaru after initial conflict in Ch 2

Is the culprit of Chapter 2, found guilty and executed

Turned into butter

Execution: The Cage of Death
Discuss anything pertaining Mondo Owada, the Ultimate Biker Gang Leader!

Character Order for Discussions

I like Mondo if only because I'm a bit soft toward characters with the bros for life archetype I have kind of the same mindset.

At the end of DR1, we all learn that everyone lost their school memories and they've all known each other and were all quite close during their time at Hope's Peak. Consider the backgrounds of a young boy in a pretty stable household, but constantly bullied to the point of drastically warping his kind personality, a young boy from a financially and socially ruined family working himself to the bone for his desire to restore his family's name and effectively isolating himself from everyone in the process , and a young boy raised in an environment of crime where he was always an inferior to his only real parental figure.

That's what you get with Fujisaki, Ishimaru, and Oowada, and the time at Hope's Peak is exactly what these three young boys needed in their lives to become men. The three each carry exactly the qualities the others were looking for.

Mondo in particular lacks direction and believes himself incapable of accomplishing feats like completing college, has trouble talking to women and socializing in general, and carries a rather traditional view of men and women. He's not a bad guy at all, but he's a product of his environment, as are the other two.

Between Chihiro's issues with bullying for being a weak boy and Ishimaru's similar determination, he's getting a much greater perspective of people who, at first glance, but are nothing him, but in truth are enduring the same struggles he is. It's no surprise these three go beyond just close friends. They likely consider each other close family, brothers after all.

The scene with Ishimaru and Oowada where they face off in the sauna is commonly theorized to be hinting at the game's ending and was them gradually regaining some of their memories of each other. In a single day, Ishimaru and Oowada get quite buddy buddy, to the point of disturbing anyone else.

But when you consider how much each has changed their lives, and how much each of the three brothers gave to make the other two feel more "whole," it shouldn't be surprising.

When you consider that, remember that losing their memories means we've effectively seen the cast revert to their insecure selves from when they started at Hope's Peak. Mondo is anxious and aggresive, Fujisaki is self-destructive and insecure, and Ishimaru is oblivious to interacting with others and bullheaded.

Judging from the fact that Fujisaki is still quite frail and still not in the strongest of shape in the game, we can infer that when he first met Mondo at Hope's Peak, that he likely wanted to train in a similar way to get strong like Mondo, but over time simply became more confident in himself, seeing that he didn't keep to training.

But with their memories gone, Fujisaki effectively lost his confidence, Oowada his direction, and Ishimaru his socialization. That still wasn't enough to stop them from having it creep back up, as two of the three brothers were able to recover some of their old selves.

When looking at it that way, it makes the second case even more powerful. Oowada killed his own brother because he wasn't able to control himself. During his FTEs, he becomes good friends with Makoto, but still never shared anything about Daiya and what happened with his gang. That seems to be something he shared with his two brothers, Fujisaki and Ishimaru, during their original time at Hope's Peak. Had he gained a bit more, I believe he would have confided in them during the killing game. I wouldn't put confiding even that kind of heavy secret past the three if they really were that close at Hope's Peak.

It's no wonder Mondo carries even more guilt for murdering Chihiro. No wonder Ishimaru pushes so hard to defend him, and in chapter 3, why he's just a broken shell of a person without either of his brothers alive. He does this with some of his memories salvaged, knowing he didn't work hard enough to have either of his brothers saved.

That brings me to the last point about trial 2. Mondo's actions. All of Mondo's efforts were done to hide Fujisaki's secret, not to try and get away with the murder. I wouldn't be surprised if he had confessed to the murder if not for that reason. Granted, he does push a little bit after the secret is out and he's been noted the killer, but you gotta have some gameplay for the player I guess.

But remember that he chose to pass up falsifying even simple things and while most people would be focused on trying to cover themselves, Mondo goes out of his way to protect Chihiro.

You think you hated Byakuya? Imagine how you'd feel if someone desecrated your brother's corpse like that. I personally saw Mondo's shock as genuine, but not "Oh God, Chihiro's dead," but more "who the fuck would do this to Chihiro" and the trial mostly of him wanting to find out who was responsible.

Suddenly, Byakuya got 90% douchier for rubbing salt in the wounds of these three. Mondo, he really is a Pieca shit.

That's Mondo for ya. He's not my all time favorite character, but damn do I understand where he's coming from regarding brotherhood. It truly is a powerful, lifechanging thing what a close friend can do for you.

TL;DR Not my all time favorite, but I do like Mondo, a bit more than the average fan. Could he have been better? Sure. But I liked him for what he was.

[S]I do agree with a majority of what you said, but something is curious to me. You lightly touched on it I think

two of the three brothers were able to recover some of their old selves.

But is it just that Mondo bonds with both Chihiro and Taka, that they're assumed to also have a brotherly bond as well?

I would think so, yeah. When Taka is broken and depressed in chapter 3, I took it that his guilt wasn't just with Mondo's death, but not looking out for Chihiro either. I figured because of the whole memory thing, Mondo and Taka only regained memories of each other since that competition triggered some of the things they've done before, but they didn't fully remember anything with Chihiro since he wasn't there.

Also, the fact that Chihiro was so quick to trust in Mondo and that Mondo was willing to go along with helping Chihiro and not even have the idea of making fun of him cross his mind leads me to believe something similar happened at Hope's Peak and that the three all developed a brotherly bond with each other.

I actually liked Mondo a lot. Though he was a biker gang leader and murdered someone, he was kinda morally upright, but stupid.

I'm just bummed that the creators didn't use his death as a slingshot for Ishimaru's (who died in the next case) character development.

Made a pretty funny cameo with his older bro in this game, with the added bonus of getting to rough 'em up!

Otherwise he didn't really stick out to me, though one of his high points in my memory was in the fan translation with all his ridiculous variations of bro with Ishimaru, the best being 'Broseidon'.

Of course, could be my Ishimaru bias speaking...

Had nice corn hair too, I guess?

In terms of that game, I have so many questions.

The most prominent in my mind being, "Why is that woman dressed as an eclair?"

I thought he was a pretty cool guy overall. Yes, he was indirectly responsible for his brother's death, and he does lash out violently when he gets freaked out, but he's not a bad person. He helped guard the crime scenes, even the one for the murder he committed.

His belief in honor seems to hang over him, Mondo wants to be what he believed his brother was and what he thinks he can't be. And it works, he's not the ultimate biker gang leader for nothing. In his efforts to emulate his brother he manages to lead his gang to be the top dog in Japan.

His biggest problem, of course, is that he's too passive. He didn't kill his brother, and had he not been saved he would likely have died himself. He wasn't even in his right mind when he killed Chihiro, though that one is a little harder to forgive since it was still with his hand. However, apparently it wasn't always a problem, he did issue the challenge of a race against his brother and even if his brother took leadership, he did help with running the gang even before he took over.

The exception to this is Ishimaru. When he's arguing with Ishumaru, he shows some initiative by issuing the challenge of a nonviolent competition, much like he did with his brother. Owada asks Naegi to be the mediator for their competition. He takes even ups the ante in his challenge by leaving his clothes on in the sauna.

It seems that their friendship brings out a side of Mondo that he hasn't showed since his brother died. It's a shame he died before he could show any more development.

Edit: just remembered that Owada and Ishumaru call each other "bro"... So, yeah...

I wanted to like Mondo a lot, I really did. He just... wasn't all that appealing. I mean, sure, he had his whole backstory with him and Daiya, and his friendship with Ishimaru, but other than that, there wasn't all that much. His character sort of flip flops from wanting to help Chihiro to being uncontrollably angry enough to kill him, and he even goes on to not play a major part in HIS OWN TRIAL. Not only that, but his whole character and motivation was only shown at the end of his trial, unlike someone like Celes or Sakura who had a lot of development before their deaths, Mondo... didn't really have that. The best thing he really contributed to the story was causing Ishimaru to get out of his stink, because it was pretty amusing to see him try and talk like Mondo. It just stinks, because I feel like Mondo could have been one of my favorites if he was used well, but instead he's actually my least favorite of the cast from the first game.

I just wished we could have seen more of his friendship with Ishimaru. Ishimaru was also a character I liked a lot, so I was hoping he would be one of the survivors. And Mondo's hairstyle... oh god.

[S] 
He had a pretty ridiculous hairdo, can't match up Hiro's though shame.

Tbh I feel that even when he mans up and accepts his crime and guilt, it doesn't excuse the fact that the reason he committed the murder was so weak in my opinion. Just couldn't get behind his reasoning for murder. He really wasn't that interesting either, a lot of the interesting parts about him were backloaded near the end when he was about to die so it didn't matter.

He was okay. His introduction as the easily irritable gang leader who flattens Makoto just after the big reveal right at the beginning was certainly effective at capturing attention, albeit perhaps not our interest. From then he acted like a typical buffoon gang leader, and how easily he was aggravated by Celeste was especially annoying. His rivalry with Taka was kind of funny, but his sudden friendship was honestly kind of lame.

I did enjoy his major bit of backstory right at the end of case 2. It makes sense, it fits with his character that it happened in the first place and that he had to cover it up, and it effectively changes the context of the character. That said, it being a catalyst for the murder of Chihiro was odd. Chihiro was able to look past having to resort to wearing girl's clothes to not be picked on, whereas Mondo was mad he couldn't also look past his weakness of...not blaming himself for his brother's death. There's a bit of a disconnect is what I'm saying, and that he would go so far as to murder in anger is pretty unbelievable.

He wasn't actively annoying or anything, but ultimately, written out of the story in Chapter 2? Yep, sounds about right.

I thought he was jealous because Chihiro could admit his/her faults, and he was still too cowardly to admit that he killed his brother. He wanted to tell the others, but couldn't. But it wasn't just jealousy. The same way Chihiro admired Mondo for his outer strength, I think Mondo admired Chihiro for his inner strength. Having had such a tough time and still being able to do something about it.

Mondo probably feels he's had an easier time than Chihiro and he's still afraid. And he is impulsive, and aggressive, and still a coward, so rather than admit he was afraid, he lashed out. Usually he'd use his fist, but the dumbbell was in his hands and he needed to release his anger...

He didn't want to kill Chihiro. He just did what he always did. Hurt people. But this time it didn't just hurt.

One of my favourites, if only because of the potential there was for friendships and bromances had he not went and killed Chihiro.

He was coo, I guess. I just kind of despise him because of my poor bae Chihiro.

Character Discussion #9 - Kurokuma (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Kurokuma

Talent: N/A

Game: Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Adviser for the Warriors of Hope

One half of AI Junko

Discuss anything pertaining Kurokuma, the Adviser for the Warriors of Hope!

Character Order for Discussions

This character is almost like a representation for one of my biggest gripes of Another Episode/Ultra Despair Girls: How it handles its characters.

A lot of characters that were hyped up in promos for this spin off have either little to no screen time, development, or character. Arguably the same could be said for the new characters that are part of the main cast, since most of their development (in the case of the Warriors of Hope) are all loaded into their final showdown, with the exception of two (Not really counting Monaca). Now, I know you're all thinking 'What are you complaining about? It's not like this is the first time the rug has been pulled from under us, look at Togami!' It's just lame as all hell when this happens to so many characters, Asahina's brother, Hagakure's mom and Fujisaki's dad which I'm forever salty about. Shirokuma had some decent screentime at least in comparison. So Kurokuma was shown along with Shirokuma and the opposite duality theme between the two was very clear, and with one being with the adults and the other being with the kids I assumed they'd have a bigger role. Shirokuma sorta did, Kurokuma lolnope.

I loved this promo art and am sad it wasn't really a thing. I know I shouldn't be using promo art as evidence but damnit look at this group all together! Especially love Shirokuma here.

So about Kurokuma. Yeah he sorta sucks, didn't enjoy his presence at all. The most interesting thing about him is that he's half of AI Junko and he gets to get rekt by my man Izuru Kamakura, so there's that. So glad Komaeda wasn't the only SHSL Despair dude to show up, and it tied nicely into Goodbye Despair what with Kamakura having AI Junko now.

The black bear, right? Talked with the most ridiculous Midwest accent since Labrys in Persona 4 Arena? I mean...he had a few funny jokes, but...did he even do anything?

Actually, I'll say this for the both of them; their visual design was great. They're each one complete colour instead of being divided into two, they have coverings for their "false" eye. Whatever, just a nice inversion of the accepted Monokuma aesthetic.

[S]Yeah the all black one, and same, he hardly actually did anything lol

At least his sprites were funny too? Had that ridiculous cigar.

I don't imagine this character will generate too much discussion.

So after the events of DR, Monokuma decided to settle down a bit. He went back to chill for a bit, went back in the dating world, and decided to marry Fran Drescher.

They settled down, moved out to a wealthy white suburb, and had a child.

That child is Kurokuma.

That's the only explanation I can think of for such a forgettable, annoying character. He just made rap jokes, had a laugh, and sounded like a stereotypical old Jewish woman that had been smoking too much. His personality was basically a white kid in the suburbs that listened to Lil Wayne and Drake and now decided that he's a badass.

I just didn't find him memorable or that likable, to be honest.

I really think Kurokuma was the more redundant of the pair of Junko's AIs.

I mean, sure, the Warriors of Hope needed to be guided when Monoca couldn't convince them to get "defeated" by Komaru and Toko, but that almost never happened. So, Kurokuma literally spent the whole game griping about stupid things in a terrible Boston accent, while Monoca manipulated the Warriors of Hope with very few problems. Shirokuma on the other hand, pretty much engineered the issues that the adults had by: Putting them all in one place to be horribly attacked, Completely convincing the adults' leader that he was a special and important ally, and making Komaru and Toko go off on pointless missions so that he could continue to influence the adults' reactions and blame the girls for everyone's problems.

So, yeah, Kurokuma you may be a little bit funny, but, you really seemed useless by the end.

The little hills thing?? Why?? Monaca is??? 12???

MONACA!! WON'T!! TOLERATE!! THIS!! BULLSHIT!!

[S]Oops I'm a day late.

I don't think it'd have much an impact regardless, since Kurokuma overall felt like he had such a tiny role in the plot proper. His design is pretty funny though, maybe if he was a tad more relevant like Shirokuma.

I'm always surprised how fast people respond to these discussion threads, this one had 7 comments on the first day despite the minor role of the character...

[S] 
I'm surprised too, I often post these in the middle of night and people still respond in a bit, guess there're a lot of night time lurkers like me!

And yeah, this thread's already got more comments than poor Monomi. Looks like almost everyone's banding together on how lame Kurokuma is.

He's a weirdo. I think he's supposed to be half of Monokuma, so it shouldn't be too surprising. He would be the half that boasts a lot, and encourages murder without actually doing anything, as opposed to Shirokuma who has a more reasonable self-image and discourages killing, but takes matters into his own hands when things go south. Ultimately Kurokuma talks a big game but can't even speak without permission, making it hard for him TO have an impact on the story.

It seems like Junko was trying to create some kind of backstory for Monokuma with the two bears, but later decided to rewrite it later like all the monokuma fanfics she made.

Also, I just wanted to add: Kurokuma has the most ridiculous design ever.

Still haven't beaten Ultra Despair Girls but Kurokuma does absolutely nothing for me. He's honestly barely a character to the point I forget he even exists. At least Shirokuma actually does stuff, Kurokuma on the other hand just...makes jokes. Albeit every once in a while something he says can be funny, being completely forgettable is one of the biggest offenses a character can be for me.

Seriously does Kurokuma do ANYTHING?!

Yes of course Kurokuma was so irrelevant I mean he's only the Bigger Bad of this game and the one who gave Monaka the idea of operation: Junko mk2. sarcasm

I see some people complain about the voice, so it must be the dubbed one, since Kurokuma's JPN voice is the same as Junko's.

The thing is, if Kurokuma is a schemer, it still makes him a little redundant. Monaka still got most of her ideas from when Junko visited the Warriors personally, and it's not like she really needed whatever inspiration Kurokuma provided.

Conpare that to Shirokuma, who shows up multiple times, performs actions to propel the story and has a character arc. It's not a great character arc, but it's there.

I just think the character is pointless. The game would be the same without him.

who is kurokuma some variation of monokuma?

Character Discussion #10 - Byakuya Togami (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Byakuya Togami

Talent: Affluent Progeny

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc, Goodbye Despair, Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Generally hostile towards the group, source of mistrust and doubt

Antagonizes everyone in Ch 2 by referring to Mutual Killings as a game for him to beat

Witnesses murder of Chihiro Fujisaki and manipulates the crime scene

Knows about Toko Fukawa's Alter Ego before everyone else

Implants the idea of a traitor in everyone's head in Ch 3

Along with everyone but Kyoko Kirigiri and Makoto Naegi doubts Sakura Ogami when involvement as mole is revealed in Ch 4

Gets Rekt Unable to discern true culprit in Ch 4 due to an inability to consider people's feelings

Throws suspicions towards Kyoko in Ch 5

Escapes Hope's Peak to join Future Fondation post first game

Enters the virtual world of Danganronpa 2 in order to defeat Junko Enoshima again in Ch 6 of DR 2

Saves Komaru Naegi in UDG before being captured and imprisoned by the Warriors of Hope

Discuss anything pertaining Byakuya Togami, the Ultimate Affluent Progeny!

Character Order for Discussions

Ask a fan of Danganronpa who they think the real pointgetters of the series are…The smarter ones in the trials.

You'd likely hear some responses like Kyoko, Nagito, Chiaki, Fuyuhiko, and one I find that comes up a little too often…Byakuya.

I don't think Byakuya is one of the smarter students in the series. Don't get me wrong, he's no Hagakure by any means, and he's definitely logical and able to take up leadership roles when the time calls for it. I'm even of the opinion that intelligence isn't all too important when looking over Danganronpa characters. Some of the finest characters we've had in the series don't actually contribute that much to the trials, after all.

But with Byakuya, I think it's important to call this fact out. In trial 1, he spends most of the time suspecting Makoto, which is obvious, but he fails to consider other possibilities and jumps on the "Makoto did it" train like everyone else. Granted, he does present reasons why Makoto can still feasibly be the killer, but he never really considers the possibility of other suspects. When he's touted for his intelligence, recall that in trial 2, he went into it knowing who the killer was already. It's a completely different game of constructing lies versus figuring out mysteries when you're entering the class trial as a killer. At most, I give him credit for framing Toko so that Genocider whatever you wanna call her would be the prime suspect since she'd likely kill him. It was a good idea to deal with that before she decided to act on her crush.

In trial 3, Makoto immediately assumes "Hagakure is the killer" isn't something he can assume before he even begins investigating. Byakuya's exchange with Makoto at the beginning of the investigation shows that he thought Hagakure was the killer, but once he got a (pretty large) leading hint from Makoto, he changes his mind. I took it as him not being willing to admit he didn't know at first and tried to make it look like his "returning the favor" wasn't really just "Makoto pushed me in the right direction." (That's also a shot at a few overzealous Hajime fans too quick to throw Makoto under the bus, but that's a talk for another day :P)

Anyway, trial 4 comes and Byakuya, while able to push through most of the holes, is still flat out wrong in who the killer is. Trial 5 comes, and he acts as kind of a moderator during the trial, but most of the trial progresses more from Makoto and Kyoko having to duel it out. Hell, I feel you could even argue the "tell them, Naegi" lines he has sometimes is him not knowing the answer and him trying to pass the buck on to Makoto.

Everything about Byakuya, from him talking down to everyone, to the multiple times he outright tells someone "go ahead and kill me if you want" like he does to an upset Asahina in chapter 4, to him condescending to others whenever he gets the chance is more him just putting on a front and trying to come off as a genius master manipulator. His intentions are a bit different from Celeste, who acts similarly, but I still get that impression from Byakuya.

His free time events have him mention that he made a ton of money through daytrading, and while it is a big accomplishment, he mentions how he casually did it as a hobby and it just happened. You know that kid you went to school with that gets a good grade on the big test? You know how he would just say "yeah, I didn't really study for it." That's what Byakuya is in an exaggerated form and expanded into a character. He's smart, but even then I wouldn't quite say as smart as say Makoto or Kyoko. I also think he tries to downplay how much effort he puts into things to make it look like he's so awesome to be able to casually get through things. It goes well with him constantly referring to his family trial as a "battle."

He downplays effort involved in his work quite a bit, but his later FTE with him telling Makoto that he has "no idea" how hard it could be told me that he dropped the façade for a change and spares no detail in expressing how hard it was for him. This isn't like his suspicious day trading story or any instance where he talks down to someone during a trial for making a mistake.

Last, I think it's important to mention how much of a foil he is to one of the other survivors, Asahina. One noteworthy point about Byakuya is that he pays closer attention to the wording of the rules more than pretty much anyone else there, and he's usually the one to catch on to the ways you can exploit the rules. He asked about the ruling on accomplices, the wording on what counts as a "student" in trial 2, meaning it's fair game to use a dead student's handbook, and so on. He's very much a "trust in the rules and cover only yourself and nobody else" approach.

Asahina on the other hand is a "we're in this situation and can get out of it if we act cautiously and work together to figure out how to get out of here." She's respectful of everyone and their suggestions, even if she doesn't personally like that person. For example, she notes how she doesn't appreciate Celeste's attitude, but Hina is one of the few students that genuinely respects her night time rule suggestion of not wandering around after dark. She didn't care for Yamada and how pervy he was, but she still was brought to tears by his death. She was annoyed by Fukawa pushing everyone away and being rude, but she still went out of her way to take care of her when she passed out in trial 2. Both of them are also the only ones in the first game to intentionally frame themselves for a crime they didn't commit.

Byakuya and Hina are foils of each other, and it's a dynamic I not only enjoy, but really appreciated come trial 4 when we learn that Sakura committed suicide, Hina attempted to frame herself (and successfully fooled Byakuya), and Byakuya was flat out wrong. (By the way, I will defend to the death the opinion that shooting down Byakuya here is the single most satisfying moment in all of DR 1)

That's Byakuya to me. That kid that's genuinely smart, but tries to play it off like he doesn't put in as much effort for it as he actually does.

[S]I've never really thought about it from that angle before, huh, but I like that alternate view of his character. It would also give another layer to just how much Byakuya values his family name, feeling that he has to show off and give that imposing air of 'it was nothing' as fitting for his family, or as one would expect from the heir to such a grand family.

(By the way, I will defend to the death the opinion that shooting down Byakuya here is the single most satisfying moment in all of DR 1)

Amen, amen.

At most, I give him credit for framing Toko so that Genocider whatever you wanna call her would be the prime suspect since she'd likely kill him. It was a good idea to deal with that before she decided to act on her crush.

Afraid to say I'm a bit lost on this point. How does framing Toko be a way of 'dealing' with Genocide? I don't think he could've predicted that Genocide would start crushing on him due to his framing, and it isn't like Toko was gonna be punished since it was Mondo that did it.

No problem. I should clarify. Genocider mentions that she only kills adorable boys she loves. Byakuya knows Toko has a huge crush on him now, so he's probably afraid of her eventually caving and killing him, not necessarily in chapter 2, but just at any point during the killing game. Even if the group eventually finds the profile to learn this fact and immediately suspect Toko, from Byakuya's perspective, he'd still be dead and doesn't want to take that chance. She wasn't very subtle in her crush on him in chapter 2, especially when she took the time to reach out to him about her thoughts.

By framing her and revealing her early on in chapter 2, he prevents that possibility from coming up because now she'd be the immediate suspect and even if someone performed a copycat killing, it'd defeat the purpose since everyone has access to the information.

It's another example of him acting purely in defense of himself, which, in a killing game is a good idea. It's still incredibly dickish toward Toko, but it's Byakuya. :P

Can I just say that one of my favourite scenes involving Togami is this, which is a pretty small scene in the grand scale of schemes but one of my absolute favourites?

I mean it's just Togami being Togami and that's what it seems like the scene amounts to, putting everyone down and being condescending, and then he fucking books it out of that room away from Genocider, the last thing I'd imagine Togami ever doing in front of everyone else. Just the thought of Togami being all cool as usual, then everyone becomes slightly confused as he suddenly starts increasing his pace instead of casually walking out, before flat out booking it is such a silly scene in my head I can't help but love it.

I love that scene along with the one in chapter 5 right after Toko gets blown up.

Hina: Oh, she survived! :D Byakuya: Oh, she survived... :|

In the months that have passed since I've played DR1, I think I realise that I actually really like Byakuya. A lot. As a character, obviously, not as a person. He's kind of a walking trope, yes, but he has such an edge to him that elevates him and gives Danganronpa a much-needed sense of paranoia that the experience would not have been the same if he wasn't there at all, much less if he died.

Truthfully, his very introduction where he gives his name is not inspiring in the least. "Okay, here's my name, and the fact I'm now telling you to go away cements me as the jerkass." Nothing fresh about that at all. Which is a little aggravating because it makes me realise how much I hate how the characters are literally lined up in the opening room to introduce themselves one at a time; it completely undermines their own senses of identity. I hate that intro so much.

But then the killing game starts, and Byakuya immediately sets himself apart. After weighing up the likelihood of the situation, he takes the game pretty frankly. While everyone else says they should start investigating in groups, Byakuya intends to go alone because he simply cannot trust anyone. Because there's every chance someone WILL take the game at face value and kill someone to leave, and how can he trust people he has never met?

The only other person that treats the killing game as a game, and devises real strategies for their success over the long term, is Celeste, and even she offers the suggestion that they simply live out their lives in Hope's Peak to stop the killings. And knowing the talent of Celeste, we should have known that was a big lie, but I love that those two take the game dead serious, pun intended. But Celeste treats it like a social game, where beguiling and faking out the other players is the way to go. Byakuya seems to treat it more as a sport, with strict rules, and he looks at it very systematically, poking for loopholes and so on.

And this is good, because it reminds the player that there is a framework in play that led them to this situation, and if someone's taking it seriously moving forward, that makes them a very dangerous opponent. Byakuya messing around with the crime scene in Chapter 2 is great not only from a gameplay standpoint, simply making the case more interesting to solve, but also from a character perspective. Of course Byakuya would not just report the body for the sake of getting the case solved as soon as possible for everyone's safety. He saw an opportunity to gauge the difficulty going forward (how well Naegi would solve the case), and he took it. Not only does this highlight the deviousness and, dare I say, intelligence of Byakuya, it just makes him a great asshole.

He then says, in no uncertain terms, that he intends to kill someone to win the game, and I like this A LOT. A lot of the tension of Danganronpa comes from sudden gut punches, mostly from finding a random dead body, and in these cases, the fear comes from what you can't see coming. But in Byakuya, you CAN see it coming, you just don't know when. And there's something very unnerving about commiserating with someone who's owned up to having no moral qualms about killing. Except for Jack, I guess, but that and his relationship with Toko are for next week.

To all of the people who say, "I wish Togami would have died instead of X", I hate to break it to you, but he would not have; he's too intelligent, too patient and too distant to put himself in harm's way. The only other people on his level in the game are Celeste and Kyoko, but Celeste made a nigh-literal gambit that failed to succeed, and Kyoko...has a heart. Togami, on the flipside, is the most attuned to the game's rules and his surroundings. Which would be to a fault.

Byakuya is generally reliable in the trials, and a great help in the investigations themselves (which also heightens the sense of fractured trust you have in his reliability), but it is in Chapter 4 where his methods required desperate re-assessment. His distance almost becomes his downfall. As Kyoko says, he is unable to solve the mystery behind Sakura's murder because he doesn't account for the human element. He's so attached to the rules of the game, and his gauge on how everyone follows them, that he fails to see the real motive buried within simple human chemistry. At the end of the trial, he renounces the game, or at least his intent to kill, because he sees how weak the mastermind can be.

But he's still much more aware of the rules than everyone else. When Mukuro's body is found, Kyoko is his prime suspect; it's not personal, it's just the raw manner of her not having a real alibi, again showing how fixated on the game he really is that he can't see when there's foul play (though Kyoko makes it really hard for herself too). Byakuya is a man with intelligence, drive and focus, but it's his lack of empathy and imagination that almost does him in on several occasions. This is pretty clearly derived from his past as the heir to a massive company. Everything is business to him, and while he knows the machinations of any situation, he gauges everything so much he never possibly accounts for blindsides. The first half of the game is spent painting him as someone to be truly feared, while the second half deconstructs his mindset and how useful it really is.

By the time the game is over, he has at least reassessed his goals, though he doesn't seem to demonstrate much care for factors outside of those goals, refusing to join in the general celebration and focusing on what happens next. It's not a great ending for him, just feels a little lightweight, but I still think that he is the greatest heel of the Hope's Peak student body.

And then you get to the next few games, and it's like watching Hogan's awful 2003 run.

I can accept that he'd found Future Foundation because he's a man who enjoys his long-term goals of creating big companies with massive influences, but to be so involved as to personally rescue Komaru from Towa City, getting himself captured in the process? Not so much. And it only gets worse in the endings of AE and GD. In AE, he says he owes Komaru a favour for bailing him out of his cell, when he did no such thing for Makoto who arguably did so much more for him over the course of the first game. This is the guy who said he had every intention of killing someone to escape Hope's Peak. I don't buy he suddenly has an emotional core and that he has a grasp on unwritten social customs like "favours". It's so much worse at the end of GD, where although he eggs Makoto on to leave the island after waking the five remaining students up, he seems to have a real investment and desire in seeing the Remnants wake up. His line about miracles is complete ass garbage. Byakuya would not believe in such an abstract concept. Including the imposter!

It would be one thing if he was doing all of this for some greater personal purpose. Like maybe his deal with rescuing Komaru was a personal favour to Makoto. But I never sat well with his sudden turn as a person emotionally invested in proceedings. He's a cold tactician, even before the killing game. He sees everything as having an outcome and decides whether those outcomes are worth the action. Because he was going to own a giant business! He becomes so much more flat and uninteresting when you just make him a kind of cold but still well-meaning part of the three-man squad, and his run in DR1, as much as I love it, was already kind of on thin ice in terms of how tropey it was. Please, sideline him for The End of Hope's Peak, he clearly has nothing more to add if this is how he's acting from here on out.

An excellent post! Not that I agree with everything...

No worries. If I expect disagreement, it's probably in the idea that he's really that fearful. I think the vibes he gives off are enough to carry the game, but it is true he doesn't follow up on his threats and never actually kills anyone, which could be considered "no payoff" to some.

[S]I really like that the first two big response offer conflicting opinions of Byakuya's intelligence, it's quite interesting to see the reasoning.

AND YES how they did away with that character introduction style and put you in charge of finding the students while they're exploring the island in DR2 was a massive improvement to introducing the characters for me.

Honestly though Byakuya in UDG sort of became a joke or a running gag for Toko. Perhaps in Danganronpa 2 he's chilled out after getting his memory back and having some time to let Makoto's hope rub off on him? Unlikely but a possibility.

[S]All I remember is that dude was an ass but an entertaining one at that, the sheer degree of his condescending tone made Ch 4 feel so great for his comeuppance.

Also didn't remember enough to perplex me on his actual goals of what he was gonna do regarding his constant narration of him going to kill someone.

A very divisive and controversial figure in the series (as witnessed here), in DR1 his role was mainly to be a foil to the rest of the group. Straight away, he is skeptical of the characters' intent and was proven right as Sayaka Maizono was murdered.

Constantly comparing the game to a game of wits and a battle atop the hill, he made several smart remarks throughout the game where he correctly stated that each person doesn't think the same way as you do. However, his tough stance on interpersonal relationships and emotions came back to bite him in Chapter 4.

Asahina is his foil in a way; she gauges off raw emotions and instinct, while Togami is more reasoned shown by the fact that he was the point man in most of the cases. However, in Chapter 5, he failed to even consider the fact that Junko broke the rules in the Class Trial, even as she cut the trial short and Naegi's constant protests.

His lust for power is befitting his character and seen as he constantly orders Fukawa/Genocider to do his bidding. The 'pickaxe' incident with Genocider is a microcosm of how things didn't necessarily go his way in the game.

Overall, he is the archetypal antagonist-gone-good, but he is still a stubborn person and sticks to his own personal values.

When I first met all the characters in DR I was thinking to myself how I'm going to enjoy when this asshole bites it. Needless to say he didn't, and over the course of the game he proved to be the funny kind of asshole making me enjoy him a lot more. Also liked the fact he was the one character in the game who during the FTE's would not become your friend no matter what, made him seem more realistic in my opinion. Not much to say that hasn't been said really.

While he did end up becoming a gag character of sorts for Toko, Togami was one of the best parts of DR1. How he pretty much fits as the one who opposes everyone and how in his own dickish ways teaches us a valuable lesson that just because we don't personally see certain aspects like secrets, ambitions etc as important doesn't mean everyone else will feel the same way we do.

Hence all the multiple students killing each other off of Monokuma's incentives which Togami predicted and warned people as naive as Makoto and Aoi to stop looking at from their own personal point of view.

[S] 
That's true, but it's also important to note that Byakuya wasn't infallible, as proven in Ch 4. Despite his preachings, he was unable to listen to his own advice and assumed everyone else would view the world like he did, of benefits and negatives, not counting in the human factor.

Byakuya seems like he's really bad at gauging people.

He overestimates himself, thinking he'll easily be able to convince everyone he's not the killer in the second case if Makoto didn't. He underestimates his classmates, thinking it was impossible that Sakura killed herself because there was no personal gain for her.

However, it seems he's getting better. He still overestimates his odds against the monokuma bots in AE which gets him captured, but his decision to give a hacking gun to Komaru (as opposed to keeping it in case he found a more "worthy" person) led to the liberation of Towa city. In DR2 he willingly follows Makoto into the simulation despite the risk, showing a bit more trust in his friends than he ever did in the first game, and possibly hinting at a less pretentious self image under his jerky facade.

His English voice actor does an absolutely spectacular job and it really does big favors for a character who could have been very flat without such good work.

Odd question; is the contest between the Togami offspring literally "open combat" as he calls it? Or was that just him speaking figuratively and the contest was something less insane.

That likely would have just been an informal contest of who can finance best, who can lead best, as it always goes with these conglomerates.

The top two posts make some pretty good commentary on Togami's character, which makes me rather glad since a good majority of the fandom only seems to see him as a way to make bad money/lemon jokes.

Honestly though I'm pretty disappointed by the quality of the novel he supposedly stars in. "Supposedly" meaning that it's focused more on the authors ocs than any actual Dangan Ronpa character people bought the book to read about. If it somehow manages to get a second volume I hope DR Togami actually is able to place more focus on the person that's actually in the title.

I think the DR novella circle has actually been really spotty. Apparently they had to push the last Kirigiri book back because it contradicted a plot detail that appeared in Another Episode. But simply not featuring the title character much is yikes.

[S] 
I can't even find existence of the Danganronpa novel about Byakuya in the wiki, but hearing that it isn't that good makes me think I'm not missing out on much, huh.

Shame about that, I wonder what would've been contradicted? The backstory to the Monokuma units? Kyoko played no role in UDG.

Throughout the Detective Kirigiri books, Kyoko is searching for her grandfather, who appears as a member of the hit list in Another Episode. This implies he is alive, which contradicts the projected ending of the third book where it was meant to be revealed he was dead for many years.

Well that actually got pretty easily solved, spoiler

[S] 
Is that what actually happens? There a translation to all the Detective Kirigiri books floating around?

[S] 
Huh, that's interesting. I'll have to see if I can find translations online now my curiosity is piqued, since afaik there isn't an official english version.

Honestly I get a little intimidated by the huge walls of text always being at the top...

Honestly I don't like Togami. Everyone in the fandom treats him as the best character but he's literally just a jerk who relies on Naegi in the trials.

He also could've potentially gotten everyone killed numerous times. Don't see why he's so loved.

[S]Byakuya's actually a pretty controversial character, I think you'd be more likely to find people not liking him than thinking he's the best character.

He's entertaining to a degree though, and certainly provides that antagonistic edge within the group, outside of Monokuma.

Yeah he's entertaining, and the antagonistic edge is interesting, but I just can't bring myself to like him

However there are interpretations of him I like such as in a few fanfics

He makes me die a little inside everytime I see him. Like, okay, he could've been an entertaining douche, but in my opinion, what he did to Chihiro's body in chapter 2 was inexcusable to me.

I wanted someone, anyone, to murder him, to set him on fire, to crush every single bone in his body. But they never did.

Well, Aoi's slap is one of the marquee moments of the beginning of chapter 5. And we can assume he went down swinging to the Warriors of Hope if that helps. :D

Don't forget that line they took the time to give her a voice clip for and used again during the trial.

"YOU should have been the one to die!"

the game doesn't try to hide the fact that byakuya is your standard antagonist who later turns into a prominent support for the protagonists. while i think there's a lot of cool stuff about him, ultimately that is all byakuya amounts to - breaking the fourth wall and telling the player "yeah, we know that this guy's a trope but play along with it" doesn't make his character more intriguing.

he loses a LOT of steam after his introduction and imo the team dropped the ball on him pretty hard because he could have been so much more. instead they went for the archetype everyone was expecting, partly because it makes a spiteful tongue-in-cheek play at how danganronpa and the dev team see themselves, but ultimately byakuya is a missed opportunity all around.

This is a little late, and I'm a bit tired so I probably won't end up saying everything I wanted to say, but I couldn't resist posting my thoughts so here we go.

Before we begin, there's a fanfic from Togami's perspective called Calculated that I highly recommend. I feel like it gives really good insight into his character.

Ah, yes, Byakuya Togami. The character that's either so awful you hate him, or so awful you love him. And somehow, I ended up in the latter category.

He's not really an original character archetype; many jokes have been made about him being Makoto's stereotypical anime rival. In Chapter 1, he doesn't really do much, which I interpret as him wanting to be certain how serious Monokuma is about mutual killing before getting his hands dirty.

Hell, for a while I was convinced I'd hate him like many others did. His speech about treating the whole thing as a game in Chapter 2 did nothing convince me otherwise. However, that started changing over the course of Chapter 2's trial. I didn't really question him leading the investigation, since if he wasn't the killer it'd be in his best interest to help us out anyways, and he gave Makoto a lot of evidence which Makoto likely wouldn't have found or considered on his own (most of it was a framejob, but still). During the trial, however, as suspicion moves away from Jill, it is instead shifted onto Byakuya. Of course, this still doesn't add up, partially because Makoto is condemning him with evidence Byakuya let him have, partially because Byakuya isn't really acting like he's been caught, and partially because it'd be weird to have someone like him killed so early on. But it does beg the question: if he didn't kill Chihiro, just what the fuck does he think he's doing? Of course, soon after, the truth was revealed: he did it to test who'd be most likely to catch him when he did commit a murder. But, interestingly, he also did it because, once again, he sees the whole thing as a game. What fun would it be if he just went and told everyone Mondo's the killer? Furthermore, he considers the murders an inevitability instead of a worst-case scenario, and he doesn't really mourn anyones' deaths, preferring to skip straight to the investigation.

In some ways, it seemed, he reflected the thoughts of the player. After all, didn't we already consider it a foregone conclusion that the students were going to kill each other? Were you really sad when Sayaka and 'Junko' and Leon and Chihiro all died? Perhaps you were, but it had nowhere near the emotional impact of someone you actually know dying. And I don't know about you, but I certainly wouldn't want a trial where we know the answer right away. It'd be a waste of a trial. Lastly, while you probably wouldn't look forward to killing anyone, figuring out how to get away with it would be a fun little thought experiment.

Of course, as time went on, these parallels weakened, and he took a less prominent role in the story. He's the first to suggest the presence of a mole, and the fact that he was both correct about this and wrong about them stealing Alter Ego (and also failed to understand or consider whether or not the mole was a willing accomplice) is pretty befitting of his character. Chapter 3's trial is somewhat interesting, as it's the first one where he's genuinely helping investigate, if in his own needlessly competitive way.

A lot of people have talked about how satisfying it was for him to get upstaged in Chapter 4's trial, so I'm not going to talk about that much. I will, however, focus on his decision to 'quit' Monokuma's game at the end of that trial. It's fascinating, because it's all up to interpretation if he meant what he said, or if he really was moved by Sakura's suicide and refuses to admit it, or if he basically gave up upon realizing Kyoko and Makoto can figure out pretty much anything (of course, he could murder the both of them, but who else would pull off a tryhard move like that?), or if he saw weak points in the mastermind's plan and decided that working with the group was genuinely the more rational strategy at that point. It all depends on whether you consider him an actual sociopath, or just someone who represses emotions because, if his upbringing told him anything, they were simply a liability.

You see, most anime rivals either stay assholes forever, or turn into good guys at some point. Byakuya, however, never really stops being an asshole. He's just a cooperative asshole now. He still refuses to make friends, as you'll learn if you complete his free time events, and never seems to genuinely respect anyone aside from his own reflection. He only ever starts to soften up in later games, which I feel makes some sense.

Obviously I'll save the more in-depth discussion for when we actually get to them, but I find it entertaining that the 2 biggest hints that Twogami was a different person were that A. he actually likes junk food and B. he isn't that much of an asshole. Being an asshole is such an integral part of Byakuya's character that we're rightfully suspicious when he isn't being one.

So yeah, I guess that about wraps up my thoughts.

I think that first missing year is when Togami actually learned how to be a better person (of course, mind erasing doesnt work)

The Ultimate Imposter pretending to be him kinda hints at him improving as a person. He does seem to be kind of a jerk, but a nice jerk that cares about everyone. And remember, the Ultimate Imposter is an Imposter to a T.. They are perfect at it.

This means either two things. Togami actually improved as a person following his classes at Hopes Peak (when the Imposter last heard of him. I dont believe he would have acted out a previous personality, no matter how slight ) or that the Imposter learned to be himself (which is a discussion of its own.)

I never liked Byakuya, I make jokes about how his talent should have been ultimate jerk.

Character Discussion #11 - Toko Fukawa (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

[Toko Fukawa]

Talent: Writing Prodigy

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc, Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Falls in love with Byakuya Togami, confides secret

Secret that she has an alter ego known as Genocide Jack/Jill who is a serial killer

Framed in 2nd chapter

Routinely switches between Toko Fukawa and Genocide personalities

As Genocide attacks Aoi Asahina and Sakura Ogami in Ch 4

Genocide was unaffected by memory wipe, a fact vital to the finale's conclusion

Teams up with Komaru Naegi in UDG and forms a friendship with her

Discuss anything pertaining Toko Fukawa, the Ultimate Writing Prodigy!

Character Order for Discussions

This might be super long because I'm talking about two characters, so my apologies.

Toko is a character I have gone back and forth on a lot. I think I like her, but she is most certainly not without faults. Her whole schtick of being so nervous she interprets everything as an insult, to the point where she has some deep-seeded emotional scars and you'd think she'd have the awareness and intelligence to fight it but she doesn't, is definitely played out. But I'm not going to pretend that doesn't strike a chord with me at least a little. Not much else to talk about in regards to her behaviour in DR1, simply because she isn't very active, with the exception of her interactions with a certain someone.

See, I went into DR expecting the worst of the whole "Ultimate" concept. Either it'd be irrelevant to each character, it'd be contradictory, or the writing would lean so hard on them the characters would be walking gimmicks. Thankfully, I was proven wrong for the most part. But for the outliers, Hifumi is a joke, and the joke is centered around him having a lame power, and Toko is a romance novelist...pining after someone actively disinterested in her. You would think if anyone could see there is no believable chemistry in Toko and Togami as a pair, as everyone else does, it'd be the person whose job it is to write love stories.

But I've thought about this, and maybe this is really intentional. Maybe the fact that the best romance novelist is pining for a relationship that could only be unhealthy is meant to be meta-commentary on the reflection of romance novels on the realities of human relationship. Because let's face it: what's the general image of romance literature? Highly glamourised, even dream-like, portrayals of project relationships that often ignore unfortunate implications. Twilight and 50 Shades are the obvious ones, but this is the case when it comes to a huge share of the market.

Although we have very few details on So Lingers The Ocean, even the title seems to say it all, that it dresses up a relationship in very glossy, overly poetic terms, when the realities of love is that people don't, in fact, talk in gratuitous metaphors about the depths of their love or whatever. Because most of us know that love is an abstract term and we prefer to talk about what we mean to our partners in much more pragmatic terms. I mean, I'm not much of a paramour, but I have at least a little experience, I swear. :)

Which is why it might make sense for Toko to pine after Byakuya, even with every bit of antipathy he shows to her. In her eyes, Byakuya has ascended beyond perfection, because his prowess and his list of accomplishments cannot be overstated, and she believes that his abrasive nature belies a real show of attention to her, as well as giving him yet more layers. Like I said, she kind of likes a project. And in showing the ridiculousness and cluelessness of Toko despite her profession, this highlights how romance novels are so often fallacious, and even dangerous, in their portrayals of love.

...At the same time, I feel like I'm trying to find excuses for why this angle is a thing. If there's no meta-commentary here, then it makes her desires a complete contradiction of her Ultimate talent, which is so much worse than it simply having little to no bearing on a character. At the very least, it's an angle that is kind of annoying and makes less sense as it goes on.

Which brings us to UDG. I'm not going to say that her oft crabby mood, a clear inversion of Komaru's endless optimism, is an original angle, but in hearing more of her backstory, and in the rather passive way she delivers it, it does make her feel more well-rounded. In this game, she's not really a nervous wreck, she's well in control of her emotions. But she's put up a wall, in both intentional and non-intentional forms, because she simply cannot trust anyone except for those who really prove it. Because after being locked in a closet and having a highly dysfunctional family, her general level of trust is just so much lower. And it's not until someone truly believes in her that she opens up to them.

Unpopular opinion: that scene at the temple in Chapter 4 is the best in the series. Or at least the one that hits me the most emotionally, because it's just a maelstrom of feelings from every party involved (except fucking Nagito), and it's at that point that where the relationship between Toko and Komaru truly ascends to that level where there's an inseparable connection between the two and it would be impossible to see one without the other.

And after finding a friend and truly discovering the worth that another person can place in you, thus giving her true insight into who likes you and who doesn't...she still loves Byakuya. Sigh. I didn't expect this to get resolved immediately, and truthfully I think it was great that she sided with staying with Komaru rather than leaving with Byakuya, because it demonstrates that she really does like Komaru more if only on a subconscious level, but if she didn't see the flaws in their projected relationship before, why doesn't she see them now? This is why I said Tokomaru is my only ship; because it would be much more emotionally satisfying if, after a tragic life of being let down by everyone she's ever known and having a skewed view on love, she got with someone who understood her, put stock in her, relied on her in some fashion and who she adored spending time with despite whatever bumps along the road they ran into, and the final scene with them falling and hugging each other before shooting the final boss is...well, really cute despite not being all that original.

But if it turns out they're just platonic fire-forged friends, fine. I can live with that. But her relationship with Byakuya makes less and less sense the more the series goes on, and if it had actually been resolved at the end of UDG, I think the plot would have been a lot stronger for it. Mind you, if the two appear in DR3, I feel like I'll get my wish. I can't see the two making cameos and the relationship stagnating in a state of one-sided lust, I imagine there'll be some throwaway joke of Toko calling it off. Who knows? Maybe I'll even get Tokomaru as a bonus. That would make me happy because honestly, even with as little as we know about it, I'm not all that optimistic about the anime being good? I'll take whatever quality I can get.

Oh, right, and then there's Jack. Now, being spoiled on the first game by the box-art of UDG aside, I'm also divided on their place in the story. My po-faced side wonders why the rest of the gang didn't immediately lock up Toko after finding out she's host to a serial killer in Trial 2. I know Jack says she only kills by her modus operandi, and that doing so would be really stupid in a game about not being caught...but she's still a killer in a killing game, and I just would not take that risk and commiserate with Jack at all. Not to mention the moral questions that would come from talking to an open killer. Also...okay, I have a journalism degree, so know what I'm about to say is reeeeaaaalllyy personal. But seriously, why is the fact that she uses scissors to crucify her victims kept a secret from the media? The only reason there'd be a cover-up is because someone has something to hide, or something to gain, so I just have to wonder what the police are doing keeping that information from everyone else. Are they in cahoots with some scissors manufacturing company and they don't want to scare people away from buying scissors? This makes no sense at all.

On the other hand...she is serious fun to be around. Her boundless energy combined with her demented malice gives her a seriously twisted vibe, which I could not get enough of. She probably has the most funny jokes in number, and considering how slow much of the game is, all of her appearances give DR1 a nice shot in the arm. She's no Monokuma, obviously, but I could not stop spending time with her. Literally, I was using my FTEs on her even though I'm not sure it actually does anything.

In terms of her role in UDG...it's mentioned that Toko is kept out of full Future Foundation membership because of Jack, and although she's calmed down and hasn't killed anyone in the interim, she still presents a risk. One, she presented a risk back at Hope's Peak, you dummies. Two, with the secret of her identity out (not that I'm sure how it could have been as well-hidden as it was anyway), it'd be very stupid of her to kill someone now. Three, but then again, if she could just...stop, why didn't she do it before? Why was she killing before if she can stop now? Blahhhh.

Aside from all that, and the fact that her connection to Toko's memories and personality seem to change whenever the writers find it convenient for the story, I still like her. She makes a great counter-balance to Toko's complete stone face, and is the only real source of black comedy in Monokuma's absence. She has such a glee to everything she does that her energy is infectious, and although she's basically a cheat button, she's the better character to play as. Again, her role in the temple scene is so great because she showcases all of her baggage leading up to that moment. The snapshot of Jack aiming her scissors at Komaru's throat and Komaru just standing there is the one visual moment I'll take away from the game.

I guess I wouldn't be typing close to 2000 words about a fictional character I didn't like, so that settles my view on Toko once and for all. You gotta accept some leaps in logic for both personae, but it's worth it.

I also would not be ordering cosplay gear for someone I didn't like, so

My guess is that the police would keep things like the scissors secret to help with their investigation. Any copycat killers wouldn't use the scissors, and so they can easily discern the fakes from the real Genocide Jack. It's already hard enough to find her, so it's the little things that can help with the investigation I think.

What's the secret to becoming a good writer? Have a shitty childhood.

Toko is a character I don't care for too much, but I understand how and why others would like her.

Danganronpa 1 shows that she has the biggest tragedy nobody focused on. She's one of two people that we know of who had an incredibly difficult to deal with secret (they never explicitly say hers, but it's pretty safe to assume "you're a Serial Killer" is the secret) and decided to share it with someone. This part gets really overshadowed by the threeway bromance of Mondo, Chihiro, and Ishimaru being crushed to bits. It's even sadder if you observe her free time events, where she mentions she wrote to a boy she liked, only to have him humiliate her and post it up in response. Byakuya's move was incredibly selfish and completely disregarded her feelings, but this isn't the first time it has even happened to her.

Of course, the person she told it to decided to exploit it and cover his own ass since he knew it could result in him getting killed. From there, Toko goes the same route Kazuichi does and is the butt of a lot of jokes and mostly just back and forth for Byakuya abuse as sort of the Stimpy to Byakuya's Ren.

Then came DR: AE. We get to see Fukawa as the the Squidward to Komaru's Spongebob, complete with Squidward's sexual obsession with Byakuya Togami.

So the first few chapters we get plenty of interaction with Fukawa and Komaru. Komaru wants to get out the city, and find her family, while Toko wants to rescue master. I understand this may be nitpicky, but I just have a bit of trouble accepting the premise of "let me sneak off to save my douchey but awesome boyfriend but not really boyfriend because we're in love even though it's completely one sided and he's a total dick to me all the time."

I understand this is anime, meaning tsundere characters all love each other deep down, but the Byakuya x Toko relationship is an incredibly unhealthy one to me. I don't see it as "aww…deep down he loves her" despite some endearing lines every now and then. It's not the same as Sonia and Kazuichi in my opinion. In The Sonia/Kaz situation, Sonia just seemed more annoyed by his constant advances after a while, which is a pretty justified response. Byakuya on the other hand seems to play off his true feelings (he does to a lesser degree with Makoto in-game and at the end of DR2), but it's still hard to look past considering he would tell Fukawa to simply stop breathing, among other things.

I would hope that Fukawa could build a level of self-worth (even in-game or between the events of DR 1 and AE) of being able to see what a shit Byakuya still is, but it's instead expanded to her entire base motivation for the story. That or we at least see more of how Byakuya has helped her out, since she mentions in the spinoff that he helped her with her serial Killer/DID issue. I'm here because of a one-sided crush. Ignore what an incredibly unhealthy relationship this is and we begin Despair Girls. Even the "Toko's fantasies" don't gradually shift or anything, and at the end, we just accept that she gets her princess in the castle, except the princess is a distant, unhealthy dick. To me, accepting it as cool is no different than saying Hiyoko bullying Mikan is fine because "But deep down, Mikan likes the attention!" Doesn't change the situation. Doesn't change how incredibly unhealthy it is or how questionable the premise is to begin with.

So a while later, we get Fukawa and Komaru both sharing fears and anxieties pretty frequently. Toko gives Komaru constant shit for her victimizing and her "I'm just a normal girl" attitude…even though Komaru is just a normal girl that has only survived because she happened to get a gun from future foundation that happens to be designed exactly to combat Monokuma robots. Komaru decides to be more assertive and she whines. Komaru caves and she whines.

Throw in a bunch of "Toko hates manga and is a book snob" jokes (which we already knew from her arguing with Yamada in DR 1, only they stretched it into the same thing with various book titles) and we eventually get the twist that Fukawa was planning to trade Komaru for master all along.

For some reason, she thought it was a good idea to cut a deal with a known member of ultimate despair, then use and endanger the life of a family member of a well-respected member of future foundation to save her douche one sided relationship guy who actually doesn't help her onscreen. I don't know how that wouldn't cause problems down the road, but hey, she decided to kill a guy and heroically sacrifice her interests for both parties she cares about at least. She definitely wouldn't become part of Future Foundation if they knew she traded a civilian (one of their respected member's sister no less) for someone after interfering in the first place, so the big point of "oh, she was ready to kill Nagito and sacrifice her interests to save both Byakuya and Komaru" just seems a little forced.

There are a lot of moments where I thought Fukawa gave some genuinely kind, supportive, insightful to Komaru, like the "do you just want to give up and not see your family anymore" line after Yuta's death, but it still feels incredibly disingenuous when you learn "oh yeah, I only wanted you coming along so I can use you later." But AE dictates that four chapters of whining, complaining, and occasional support is all it takes to forge a friendship, because friends overlook that whole "I was gonna use you as a trade for a hostage" thing. Water under the bridge. (or all over the bridge in Yuta's case…)

Now, have we had rough, jaded characters still a bit clumsy in how they say things but still had good intentions? Sure. We've had Fuyuhiko, one of my personal favorite characters play that role. But Fuyuhiko's sequence of events showed he was willing to go much further to make an honest effort to change his attitude. We've even had a character redeem themselves for betrayal with Sakura, but even then her situation is making it clear that she cares.

I felt the combination of the Byakuya premise and a lot of the dialogue that leads up to Toko's decision to kill Komaeda in an effort to save both Byakuya, along with her constantly calling a bunch of unarmed adults cowards to detract from the sacrifice point. I can completely understand her being hostile toward Haiji (and even then, she couldn't know most of the stuff that makes him a piece of shit until late in the game, so her early hostility to him for being pathetic isn't justified in my book), but it gets tiring having the invincible serial killer constantly talking down to all the unarmed, injured adults for not resisting, defending themselves with nothing, or being victims…of being targeted by killer robots.

But instead, we take it a step further and have Komaru draw her confidence over time from Fukawa to the point where she can stand on her own and tell everyone to stop being a victim, still ignoring the fact that she's armed with future foundation technology and her friend is invincible (in-game, but in universe is explicitly said to be more of a combat threat than Komaru, according to Nagito) but sure, let's be victims.

All I could really take from the game is that shitty, unhealthy relationships are the best you can accept, because at least you aren't codependent on Junko like the warriors of Hope.

Now am I saying Fukawa is worthless or that my way is the absolute way? Not in the slightest. They've still expanded on Toko's character quite a bit from DR 1 and seeing her act as a pillar of a support to someone who is close to the girl she used to be is a very nice touch. That said, I have kind of the same feeling of Kyoko where I don't like her that much for the majority of the game, then I kind of like her in the last chapter.

So I understand why others like Fukawa. To me, I couldn't really stomach most of it. I knew there was gonna be some twist with Haiji being in on something and being a piece of shit somehow, but even then, I still agreed more with a good amount of his mindset early on (early on is the key word) if only just this phrase:

"Rushing forward at full speed with no hope of success isn't courage. It's stupidity. Well? Do you have a plan? Do you know of some way to get out of here? Do you know how to remove a wristband?"

By the way, Fukawa responds to this by saying that future foundation can help them. In other words, she told the town to stop being victims and just wait to be saved by a group she knows isn't going to come because of the hostage situation with Byakuya.

I agree that giving up isn't a solution, but it gets tiring having Toko just constantly bitch down to everyone and everything in game. We got Hiyoko from her, after all. Fukawa in AE felt like "Hiyoko lite the game" so I wasn't able to really capture the same appeal as her fanbase does now.

Am I asking that Fukawa be a bubbly, perfect in every way supporter? No. She's been through a lot of shit and that's just not the person she is. I myself am pretty rough and cynical, so I understand that position of still being a supporter to someone while grappling with your own cynicism. Having said that, Fukawa comes off as disingenuous at a number of times for me.

Annnnd this is the part where I run and sacrifice several humans in the name of kindly ask Gundham to cover me with a protective spell.

Well, Komaru definitely has an instant kneejerk reaction of "what the fuck? My best friend is betraying me", so it's not like she doesn't question Toko's altruism at all.

That's true, but they just gloss over it because Toko is her friend, as she says.

I don't feel like that's something minor though. This person was planning to trade you as a hostage and already said she's just been using you for that end the whole time. That's not something small that you just forget your friend did and laugh about later. She questions it, but I think it's a little too uncharacteristically understanding.

Uncharacteristic for most people, maybe, but Komaru spends much of her time in relentless naivete. Not even necessarily optimism, because she scares easy, but she expects the best of everyone. She always struggles with the Warriors of Hope doing what they do, because they're just kids and kids aren't meant to do that. She encourages Yui to go for that swim, because she doesn't have the exposure and savviness to realize that the wristbands are bombs.

She consistently wants to believe in everyone and that everything will turn out okay, even the times she can't, which I imagine is why she's so quick to reconcile with Toko after she stabs Nagito's knees.

Again, I agree, but that's why I don't care for the entire premise of UDG. They tell unarmed people to quit being victims and fight back, they stress this idea of codependency but don't differentiate it in any way when they try to contrast it with Junko's relationship with the Warriors of Hope, and it feels like a game that's just missing a few things, but has all the necessary pieces together. I just thing it has a few major problems with its premise that show mostly in what causes me to dislike Toko a great deal.

[S]I don't like her. She sort of rounds out the cast by providing some comic relief with herself and a hate pedestal for Byakuya, I just didn't like her. It sort of hurts for me to see such a self depreciating character and it felt like one of those cliches I'd expect to see elsewhere that everytime Byakuya insulted her and you expect her to be despondent, she in fact is overjoyed. It annoys me, I don't like her attitude towards everyone else and her fantasies in UDG got old fast for me.

I never really liked shoujo manga anyways, the artstyle is too stylized for my taste.

I'm sure all the points I've mentioned above are positives to many others that enjoy her character as a source of amusement and relating to her abysmal self confidence, I understand that. It just doesn't click for me.

I wasn't a big fan of her in DR1 to be completely honest, in fact she was my second most disliked character before I saw her free time events. Jill added a few layers to her but again, not that big of a fan because it feels out of the blue. "Here's a really socially awkward character whoops she also happens to have MPD and is a serial killer."

But in Another Episode, I absolutely loved her. You could see the character development on her and how the first game affected her. Her and Komaru's friendship is one of my favorites in the games and I loved seeing her grow on me through the extra conversations and the story. Whenever "This is the Path We Follow" played and the two had an emotional scene I saw a redeemed character and grew to appreciate her.

Can I just say u/Lowlander_2
 and u/TsundereKermit
 I actively look forward to your character writeups every week, they're so in depth and just so fun to read-especially when your opinions are different to my own.

As for my thoughts on Toko-I don't really have much to say. I'm trying to keep myself from forming an opinion on her untill I eventually finish UDG. At the moment though, I don't particularly like or dislike her, she kind of just falls into my "neutral" bin with the likes of Peko and Ishimaru. Though I am getting a little tired of the whole "Prince Byakuya" shtick-that's probably just my own fault for taking so long to finish the game.

Thanks, I could talk about this series for hours lol

First fave character, remains to be so :') I don't wanna write up a wall of text due to time restraints but a TL;DR?

She is such an intricate character, however all the while leaving certain details of her interesting life up to interpretation (as with most characters, however I find Fukawa just that much more mysterious due to her circumstances)

Her being "obsessed" with Togami is overplayed in the fandom (as with any fandom and their tendency to overhype character traits). I could see the pair working in a sort of symbiotic relationship, but I doubt it harbours any romantic love.

Don't like Syo as much honestly, but I really wish some fans would recognize that they're two different characters. Honestly even RP groups should give the two characters to seperate RP'ers (if requirements are to only take on one character, for example). Actually on an unrelated note soooo hard to get her IC in RP due to her just. General attitude towards everyone. Every Touko RP'er has to go through SERIOUS character development if they want to remain IC and have their Fukawa interact with others on a constant basis lmao.

Not sure where I stand with Komaru and Fukawa with UDG. Enjoy that she got character development, really enjoy that she found someone else she considers a "friend" (although I never know why she didn't make reference to her and Makoto's free time event where she does call him her friend. Do FTE's not happen canonically? Shrug.). Don't enjoy how she basically didn't devolve to "y'know what byakuya treated me like shit maybe I actually don't like him". But. Fanservice is always a thing so that spiel is never going to go away unfortunately.

Anyways, my two cents.

I didn't really like her in the first game, given that she attacked sweet Aoi. Seriously, there was nothing to her: she's a girl who couldn't take a shower, hopelessly in love with an asswipe (sorry Togami fans) and seemingly good for nothing.

She was nothing but dead weight, counting aside her contributions in the final chapter. But hey, if I had a say in the story, I would keep Leon or Taka alive instead of her.

But hey, my impressions of her changed in DR:AE.

I do think that her meeting Komaru phenomenally developed her character, from a self-depreciating and socially-inept nutcase to someone who finally learns the true meaning for friendship.

She started pulling her weight around AE and started showing the true extent of her abilities, particularly her expertise in literature - something not shown in the first game. I'm a freelance writer by profession and I have a soft spot for writer-characters.

That said, I began to fully know who she is and started to actually like her, barring her split personality aside.

Anyway, there's a large room for character development for her, and it's interesting to see how it all unfolds in the anime.

I always liked her, even in DR1. She was one of the freakiest, most perverted characters--either personality--and I was all over it. She and Jack/Jill/Syo had some of my favorite lines collectively, like "mouth down south," "Big Mac," and that crack about the Fenrir tattoo being a submissive "bitch" mark. But of course, I loved her even more in UDG when she actually made more of an effort to get over herself and her fear and her lack of confidence and push forward regardless. She cracked me up even more in that game too (Oink! Oink!), but it was really heartwarming to see both her making a friend and her reaction to someone calling her a friend. I liked that she didn't warm up to Komaru right away, as sweet as she is, yet still tried to help her along (even if for her own reasons), but her being able to make and keep a friend shows she really has changed. Plus, playing as GJ is just so much fun. I wish there were an extended mode built around that.

But Toko also drew me to her because of her talent. I also love to write, yet I'm not all that into romance, but hey if she can write something that makes fishermen sexy, more power to her. Though I do admire her dedication as well as her skill. One conversation she had with Komaru talked about how she makes herself write every day; another has her talking about drawing from imagination and emotion rather than experience, putting aside the misused "write what you know" spiel; another has her discuss dreams and goals with Komaru, and in what I thought was one of the sweeter moments between them, Komaru was convinced she'd tease her for wanting to be a manga artist--but Toko simply replies that she'd never make fun of someone for having a dream, and even implies (as Toko does) that she'd read hers. Strictly from a professional point of view, I'm glad to see someone as dedicated and willing to put ass-in-chair as Toko enjoy success; I'd be annoyed if she were presented as the type of progidy who just rolled out of bed whenever, typed some words, and went on about how easy it is. I can't speak about the actual quality of her work, but I'm glad she's showing that it takes effort. And from an attitudinal perspective, two things. First, I feel like she's using her writing to express herself, all the things that's harder for her to say out loud regarding her true passions and romantic feelings; stuff like those fantasies in UDG that, if she does say out loud, she usually pretends others are thinking it or cushions it with jokes. I can totally sympathize with it being much easier to express things with written rather than spoken words, especially if there's an added layer of distance in that people aren't typically reading your writing with you right there. But second, more important than that, is how she, as an artist, believes in herself and encourages Komaru to do the same. Again, this is Toko we're talking about, but I found it telling that she said she'd think about reading a manga by Komaru when she spent the rest of the game trashing the genre and teasing Komaru for reading it--but not making it. She of all characters would know how much work it is to actually create something and have it published, so I loved that bit of respect from artist to artist. And that, as well as her gutso about chasing her dreams, plus her being real about the daily grind it takes, makes her one of the most inspiring characters in the series to me.

Toko is best girl

Although honestly? Can we please talk about that whole "switched at birth" ordeal with no mother wanting to test if their baby was the one that died. That backstory seems so elaborate and I often imagine I've dreamt reading about it.

To say she's kind of a jerk would be an understatement. She is judgemental of both people's physique and reading preferences. She automatically makes assumptions about people's sexual personage, often inaccurately assuming Asahina's not sleeping with anything that moves. But I still think she's a good character. Sometimes we need a character who's a bit over the edge to have everyone else more in perspective.

Genocide jack on the other hand is even more insufferable. Everything that makes Toko unlikable without the shyness that keeps her from messing with others. She kills guys she likes for kicks, and fights what's probably the most awkward boss fight in AE (stripping an insane little girl to her skivvies). While Toko hides from the others generally, Jack is just plainly not helpful, filling the air with her personality while ignoring the fact that everyone has forgotten their years as friends.

However, Genocide's existence makes some weirdness with Toko more understandable. If she and Byakuya had something going before the memory wipe, her seeming obsession with him makes a bit more sense since Genocider wouldn't have forgotten.

All I can say is, early happy birthday Touko Fukawa.

(Slipping into this discussion right quick at the last minute)

I haven't played UDG yet, so my opinion on Toko really isn't 100% complete, but here's what I have to say about her based off DR1.

It's weird, and I'm not sure why this is, but I found her forgettable. Which is weird to say of a character who's literally a serial killer. Even at the end of the game when there were only six characters left, she'd pop up and I'd find myself thinking, "Oh right, she's here still."

She also never really seemed to actually be useful in any of the trials, until Jill corroborated that the outside world Junko showed them was reality. To me, it seemed like she had been put in the game and survived up until that point just to serve that function and for Jill to be comic relief, which I'm a little salty about because some of my favorite characters died along the way.

But I wouldn't say I dislike her as a character. Some of the Jill moments were funny, and I did really enjoy the scenes where she was only allowed to speak if Byakuya told her she could.

To be completely honest, I think two unfortunate things severely skewed my perception of Toko negatively; the first is that I couldn't stand listening to her voice, both as Toko and as Jill. I'm the kind of person that always needs to play video games with the music on, but by midway through the game I had to start shutting it off if Toko was in a scene for too long. The other thing is much more shallow and really has nothing to do with her as a character, but ever since a bad experience as a little kid I've been horribly, horribly afraid of anything remotely having to do with or resembling snakes, and for that reason, the Jill art really skeeved me out.

So I wouldn't say I liked or disliked Toko as a character, she's someone I felt perfectly neutral towards.

I just finished with Toko's gift thingy. Makoto said her story was really dark, and she said she had experience with it...

Character Discussion #12 - Celestia Ludenberg (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Gambler

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Suggests Night Time rule at start of game, along with imploring everyone to learn to adapt to their new environment

Notes Sayaka Maizono was killed in Makoto Naegi's room, creating suspicion

Catches Chihiro Fujisaki before he goes to exercise with Mondo Owada

Plots a double murder scheme alongside Hifumi Yamada centered around her theft of Alter Ego, resulting in the deaths of Kiyotaka Ishimaru and Hifumi Yamada

Execution: The Burning of the Versailles Witch

Discuss anything pertaining Celestia Ludenberg, the Ultimate Gambler!

Character Order for Discussions

It's easy to just call Taeko Yasuhiro a selfish, greedy bitch that killed two people for money and for a selfish dream of being in a European castle, but I'd argue the money had little to nothing to do with her motive.

Taeko is a simple girl from the rural Utsunomiya that enjoys Gyoza, escapist Lolita fashion, and likely reading Manga while snuggled up with her picky cat. Sounds pretty typical for someone, but for Taeko, she's incredibly bland and a dime a dozen. Her FTEs show she's pretty much referencing Liar Game and Akagi, so we know she didn't actually do those things. But hey, she's the ultimate Gambler, right?

Problem is, she explains in her first event how her talent works. She pretty much wins games almost automatically. That's not to say she's not strategic or anything, but she gets good luck. What's more, this good luck is restricted to games, so it's an even more situational ultimate lucky student. The FTE transitions suggest that not even Makoto's ultimate luck is enough to overcome her playing, so it's good, but it's restricted to a very tiny world, and meanwhile, Taeko still sees herself as incredibly bland.

Enter Celeste.

Celestia Ludenberg is supposed to be a master manipulator who can control you without you even realizing it. She's knowledgeable in game theory (by the way, Zero sum games and the prisoner's Dilemma are both introductory topics of game theory--the "hello world" of the subject), completely ruthless and emotionless, and a master at her craft.

That's the impression Taeko wants to give anyway. She didn't think highly of herself prior to coming to Hope's peak and Taeko is scared to death of being killed. The first two murders weren't intentional on the killer's part, and Celeste is well aware that she's an easy target since she's not physically strong enough to really fight off most of the others. The first killer was a professional athlete and managed to overcome a surprise attack when he was the target of someone else's murder plan. The second killer is taller than most of the cast and quite muscular to add to it. It's not like Sakura, who pretty much nobody would try to kill. So now Celeste fulfills two things for Taeko. She makes her more interesting in Taeko's eyes, and she's also Taeko's way of creating a deterrent for killers.

Her Eurosomething accent that sounds like a mix of several different cultures, her improbable backstory of being European Royalty but still Japanese, her drill hair later being revealed to be a pair of extensions, and her dropping knowledge about game theory are all done to build up this persona, as a way to supplement Taeko. She wants control, and the killing game is the last place she'll find it.

Since she knows she's an easy kill, so she tries to come off as a master of manipulation who can actively control people around her despite her talent being so limited.

Enter the night time rule.

Celeste proposes one of the smartest suggestions in the series. "Let's not wander around at night." Simple, but effective. When she proposes it, she also throws in the line that she's participated in killing games before, so while Taeko is quite intelligent and immediately sees how to prevent disaster, she has Celeste deliver it to everyone as an extra way to say "hey, I'm a master of deception and have done this kind of thing before. Stay away from me unless you want to get killed." Hiyoko in DR2 does a similar defense mechanism with her attitude. It's a way to try and scare off potential killers.

The night time rule is meant as a way to illustrate Taeko trying to actively control people around her. It's not a rule being enforced, but more and more, nobody seems to give a shit about it. Hina is pretty much the only one (who didn't get killed) who really felt bad about breaking the rule. Every time someone breaks it, Celeste brings it up in conversation and goes off whatever the main subject of the conversation was, and in the case of Chihiro, said that he deserved what happened to him. She wants to be in control, but more and more she's seeing that's not happening if nobody is listening to her rule. Meanwhile, Taeko's anxiety is growing more and more and her Celeste personality isn't quite helping as much as she'd hope.

She tries to control Yamada individually in chapter 2, but even that doesn't work because he interprets her differently from being off in his own fantasy and viewing the world through his fantasy filter. He doesn't see her frustration building up, which in turn makes her even more frustrated. It's not that Celeste is short tempered, it's that all of her anxieties are starting to bubble over.

Then comes Chapter 3.

By this point, Celeste has had it. Ishimaru has started to recover and is reliant on his bro Alter Ego to comfort him after having lost both his brothers, and Yamada now has Princess Alter Ego to fulfill his fantasy identities. The twist of the trial isn't that Celeste killed, it's that she constructed a coping personality along with the others. The despair disease in DR 2 is still a pretty lame motive, but it's clear that it came from this major personality based arc in Chapter 3 of DR 1.

She begins by getting an accomplice. This can't be a murder that Taeko would do though. It has to be a murder fitting for Celeste. Celeste would manipulate the relationships Ishimaru and Yamada had to her advantage. Celeste would kill off her own accomplice. Celeste would get said accomplice by manipulating Yamada's hero fantasy and suggest she was raped by Ishimaru to give him a villain and a princess to rescue. Celeste would use the exact same photo trick she used in her murder plan on her own accomplice (on a side note, I still fanboy a little each time I remember this part). Celeste would dismiss the idea of relying on alter ego in the first place. Celeste would do it all just to get her "dream of having a European Castle."

Gundham's murder is inverted in that, when explaining it, he drops his persona to explain he and Nekomaru acted out of necessity to prevent everyone from starving and not surrender their lives to Monokuma. He then tries to play it off that he's too dark and evil to ever do something like that. Nobody believes him when he tries to throw his persona back up. Celeste does the same thing here and tries to toss this up to her persona and say "oh, I did it for the money. Look at how evil and emotionless I am."

Seeing that she reveals her true self at the end of the trial and then goes back into her persona the way Gundham does with his evil overlord persona, Celeste wants to be seen as a cruel, heartless bitch as she goes out. After all, she wants to die as Celeste, since she couldn't live as Celeste. She wanted it for being unique and for keeping people at bay.

Surprisingly enough, despite constructing an overly complicated murder plan, very little went unlucky on Celeste's part, which is likely due to her talent. Most of the flaws that came were results of human error on Yamada's part, such as:

Putting too much blood on his glasses and leaving the cloth in an obvious place.
Referring to the robot he shouldn't know anything about Justice Robo when the blueprints with the same name are in Hagakure's room.
Running the trolley that Justice Robo can't actually use through blood and proving it was used in the room.
Not properly snatching the letter from Ishimaru's body and hiding it on his person.
Pretty much everything about Justice Robo's Design.
Her only forms of bad luck come with Hina not feeling well and one of the victims saying her name Yasuhiro. She manages to salvage both instances, and only creating a small window of time for Hagakure to have supposedly carried one of the bodies with the Hina problem. She is generally quite resourceful, since she saved the group earlier by stringing together a lie to ease Monokuma's suspicions, and she also gets Hina to inadvertently reveal that she was hiding something from the group just by talking it out.

Her biggest error is obviously her slip of the tongue, which happens right after she killed Yamada. Had she inspected and forced Yamada to remake the robot, she probably would have had more success with this plan. Despite all the uncertainties that could have occurred, very few actually did happen that Celeste didn't catch and deal with.

She chose this overly complex method because she wants to create a game of manipulation and win it. She doesn't just want something to escape, it has to be a murder Celeste would do.

But it doesn't work, shit happens, and everything is falling apart. Her breakdown is awesome.

At the end of the trial, she tries to hold up her Celeste persona one more time with little success, throwing out that she did it for fulfilling her European Castle dream to come off as the coldhearted bitch Celeste. But even then the others can start to see through it. Her execution is one for Celeste…until the firetruck comes along.

Celeste was just as dependent upon a persona to cope with her situation as the others, which led to the death of three people. She's also like Gundham in that the bits that fully explain her motive get sprinkled around through various parts of the game.

Props to Celeste. You are easily one of the most interesting characters in the series.

Last thing I could bring up is an ability she seems to share with Gundham. Neither one of them seemed to ever give a shit about investigating anything and never really said to do much. However, when it came to the class trials, even though they didn't speak much, they'd seem to have an excellent grasp on calling out contradictions when the time came. My friend jokes that "Ultimate University Student" should be their talent for not doing any of the prep/homework involved, but still being able to contribute during the class discussions. :P

Ahem. Pardonnez moi.

I always thought her FTE's referenced another duo from what I've heard, never completed them myself. But if they do reference Liar Game then that just made her even better for me, it's definitely up there as one of my favourite manga to read!

This may be a silly question to ask but if her true motive wasn't the money than was it purely to get out of their situation or was it a different reason?

I thought it was more just a combination of fear and a chance to feed deeper into her "Celeste" persona (since the allure of being able to be the one to "win" over everyone, risk your life, and outwit everyone would solidify your position as an ultimate gambling master like she's making herself out to be).

Oh okay, thanks. I've always wondered that so it's satisfying to have an answer!

It's up to interpretation, so that's just one perspective.

My second favorite character in the series, behind only Kirigiri. What I originally liked about her was the Gothic Lolita fashion, and really cool name. Throughout the first few trials, she was shown as one of the very few intelligent characters in DR1 (With really only Togami and Kirigiri as competition) I also really liked her shtick as this obvious Liar, who is probably making up a lot of what she says, but are there hints of truth to what she was saying? So you're sitting there wondering how much truth there is to this Celestia Ludenberg, and you just want to find more out. She had a similar setup to Kirigiri, and since I was sure she'd survive, I was hoping the same for Celes. Obviously, I was wrong.

I was pretty disappointed with Celes' murder/trail. It was probably the easiest one in the game. How could you introduce a character you've setup as intelligent, is the Ultimate Gambler, and should be one of the best at getting away with murder have the easiest case? I felt it was a bit disrespectful to the character. For someone who should have the Ultimate Poker Face, she blew it pretty quickly during the trial. It is possible this happened because she felt bad for doing what she did (I doubt it, but maybe?) at least explain it better. You can't introduce someone who is cunning, smart, and a top tier liar, only for them to become bad in those fields when they murder someone. Oh well, I liked her execution, and the line about Marie Antoinette was pretty funny.

Outside of the trail, I find her decently easy to relate to. I mean, we all want to say we'd never commit such a fowl act like murder. But lets be real, if you were offered enough money to achieve your dream, as well as get out of a place you hate, wouldn't you be willing to go that far? Of course, I'd like to think I'd never do something like that, but if my knowledge on History/Psychology means anything, I can't say for certain I wouldn't do it. So yeah, while she might be "heartless" and empathetic, I think she is one of the more human characters in the series, if you know what I mean.

I can only agree with you that Celeste has the easiest case up to a certain extent.

Thing is, Celeste's case is easy to us players because we've seen this kind of plot in other murder mysteries before. The mastermind secretly misdirects his/her "friends" on wild goose chases to fabricate his/her own alibi. Using some sort of pre-existing sequence, be it numbered items, song verses or movie scenes to disguise the order of death in "real life". These are all cliches that we can see through easily because we have seen it before.

If you would recall, Celeste is the only person who planned out her murder plot. For. For. For. Even.

With that plot, she was able to successfully lure in an accomplice when there are usually no advantages to being an accomplice. She was able to openly stand outside in broad daylight, while killing 2 guys right underneath everybody's noses. She was even able to take into account the Body Discovery Announcement to further solidify her ultimately false alibi. That has to be pretty mind-blowing for the cast of DR1, cliched and simple as it may be for us, the audience/player.

I agree with all your points EXCEPT for the bit about her case being the easiest. Sure, as the "Ultimate Gambler," she should've been able to hold her front longer than that before breaking down to name-calling and the sort, but that doesn't mean that the actual case itself confused the heck outta me. I will say that I already knew who was going kill who due to a certain asshole friend of mine spoiling it for me, but I still played through it just to get on with the story. Up until the pretty obvious points of her distracting the rest of the group while Hifumi cleaned up the murder surrounding Kiyotaka, I was thoroughly confused as to how Celes was going to be the blackened in that particular case. I think it kind of shows how strong the case was if I wasn't able to figure out how she did it regardless of me knowing who the murderer(s) were beforehand.

The weakest case, in my opinion, was the very first one. It was kind of full of gimmes (writing the killer's name on the wall, throwing a spherical object to turn on something a long distance away, etc) and, other than the shock factor of losing what would seem to be a very important character that early on in the game, it didn't really have anything special going for it.

The weakest case, in my opinion, was the very first one.
It's a tutorial case. >_> It has a responsibility to be easy.

Of course, but even so I'd like for a mystery game to not just practically jump out and give me the damn answer right away. Even if it IS a tutorial there's not really much of an excuse to just practically GIVE you the answer outright through all of those clues.

But, I suppose if we're talking outside of a game's supposed responsibilities in holding the player's hand, then yes, I would agree that Celes' case is the easiest in that regard.

Some of that would be through translation issues though, I'd say. 11037 in English would go over your head to someone who doesn't know English.

That's why a fair number of murder mysteries use a made up language to do things like dying messages. Localizing issues come into play when you get those kinds of clues.

Having said that, it's still pretty easy, I agree.

I dunno. I feel like the second game's first case did a much better job at starting the player off easy while not making the culprit too obvious.

Celeste is definitely among my favorite characters of the series. By proposing the nighttime rule at the beginning of the game, making her talent as a liar and manipulator perfectly clear right off the bat, and having a logical and active voice in the first class trial, she establishes herself as - despite her obvious lack of a physical advantage - a force to be reckoned with and not an easy target.

Her final message to the group, where she talks about how if you lie about something consistently and convincingly enough you can even fool your subconscious, really resonated with me. It gives a player a glimpse at Taeko Yasuhiro, and how Celeste hated the "un-special" Takeo so much that she lied her own identity away.

Like others have said, I too was disappointed with her trial. Her plan relied heavily on pandemonium and confusion, so perhaps it would have worked better had she executed it when there were more students still in the game. I was suspicious of her from the start of the case, since she was the only one who had seen Robo Justice, the one taking charge of who was separating and where they were going, and just generally seemed to be the one causing most of the confusion. Additionally, Celeste was the only person left in the game at that point who I couldn't see actually making it to the end alive. For someone who was supposed to be beyond gifted at lying and manipulation, she showed her hand way too quickly in the trial by getting defensive every time Makoto tried to exonerate Hiro and by just being unabashedly stubborn.

Overall, I really love Celeste as a character. The times she smiled sweetly while assassinating Makoto's personality made me laugh.

This has nothing to do with anything really, but her voice acting is definitely my favorite in the entire series. I could listen to Celeste talk for days.

[S]She has a nice design.

That's the nicest thing I can say to such a heartless character, bleh. For the Ultimate Gambler she sure sucked as well in her own trial.

Really, she should've folded when Hifumi left the nurse's office and just let him get executed for killing Ishimaru... Or, you know, at least come up with a better plan to start with...

Celeste is...it's hard to put into words, but it's like her character was doomed from the start. What I imagine went down is that the team was drafting ideas for characters who would become blackened and who the player would have to divine as a murderer. Knowing what you know about the game within the game, who do you make? An Ultimate Lawyer, someone who understands the court set-up the most? Eh, might be too close to Ace Attorney? Ultimate Assassin or Thief, someone already used to getting away with crimes? Might be a bit ridiculous. Ultimate Gambler? Now we're cooking.

But this is one of those weird instances where being so genre savvy can wrap back around into making something so obvious for the player. I pegged Celeste as a murderer immediately, because why else would they include a character whose talent is fooling people if not to make them have a go at it in the context of the killing game? She was designed to be a tough opponent, but that she was designed to be an opponent at all kind of dooms her potential.

Of course, it could be argued that DR1 Chapter 3 is among the easiest of the trials for simply not being well structured and obviously pitting Celeste as the only real suspect, but for the way they were trying to write it, I think only two things could have fixed it: either getting Celeste to kill earlier or simply increasing the total amount of students. Chapter 3 actually involves a lot of people, because Celeste's talent is playing the field and misleading everyone. That's why she kills two people and frames one; she tries to muddy the field by getting everyone involved. The problem is by the start of Chapter 3, a third of the student body is dead, and that increases to half by the end of it, so she doesn't actually have as much room as she arguably needs to to pull off her gambit, and the only way to reliably improve this would have been to throw more patsies into the mix.

But starting off with as many students as Danganronpa did already felt gutsy, and increasing that number might have made the intro even more of an ice cream headache. And if Celeste had killed earlier, perhaps it would have cheapened her gambit over the long-term. The appeal of Celeste waiting to kill until the halfway mark is that it gives the impression she's going for the Guinness World Record for world's longest poker face, and it gives her the depth of real strategy. But poker becomes way harder when there are less people to fake out. When the blinds go up in value, it weighs on your nerve just staying in the game, and it's much easier for people to pick up on you when there's fewer people to beguile.

So either way I look at how the case could have been improved to maximise Celeste's potential, there are still problems. Which is a shame. I do like her, and I think she lends a nice seriousness to the game and all its possible outcomes. If she were in the sequel instead, I may have liked her more. The island would have given her much more room to experiment with her gambit.

Hey, wait a minute! How did Hifumi know her real name?

Hey, wait a minute! How did Hifumi know her real name?

The reason why is

I wasn't sure if you were asking for real or just more rhetorically, but I figured I'd give an answer either way.

What doesn't make sense, though, is why Hifumi would make it needlessly more complicated for everyone, like just calling her Ludenberg or something. My guess is that Hifumi didn't know Celestia's real name, but because he was still in love with her, he still tried to frame Hiro.

Thanks, that makes sense.

Love this bitch. Easily one of the best characters in the game. Cunning, ruthless and manipulative while dancing around with a smile on her face and polite air around her.

I died in the inside when she got executed. Her plan was kinda questionable but the cunning she used was just good. But her blowout as Taeko at the class trial was beautiful

Celeste is queen. Taeko is queen.

All hail Celeste!

I fell in love with her character instantly, and there has never been another character that I have liked more. She is intelligent, cunning, regal, and all around stunning and amazing. She can read people like a book, and her ability to be as manipulative as she is highly impressive.

I love her difference in personalities between Celeste and Taeko and find that she in one of the deepest and most intricately complex characters in the game, unlike 1 dimensional Aoi "Hey did you know I like donuts and friendship" Asahina, and Brain-dead Hagakure, who both somehow manage to survive.

Love her personality, love her attire, love her character, and I relate to her in multiple ways.

All hail Celeste! Long live the Queen, in this life or the next.

Easily my favorite character in the first game. Yes, she's a cold hearted bitch who would sell her own mother, but I guess that's what drew me to her. I found her to be more interesting than any other character in the first game, and it helped that she was one of the smarter ones as well. It's a shame that despite her talent, the third trial ended up being so disappointing. At least I had fun watching her completely lose it :P

She's pretty interesting in my opinion. She credits herself as being the ultimate liar, yet her lying doesn't seem to be that good.

Her first lie was her name, which is also her longest lasting one partially because it's an easy thing to fake, who really cares what she chooses to be called? The only reason it even comes up is because Hifumi gets his memory back before he dies. However, her other lies are less believable.

She claims everyone should just learn to live in the school. She's right, things would have been much less tragic if they hadn't started killing each other, but nobody, especially not her, seemed like they would be happy with staying there (She doesn't even say she wants to stay, just that they "should" give up on the outside). She lies the most in her actual murder, but most players figure out she's the killer before the trial even starts.

And it all makes sense, because she's NOT the ultimate liar. She's the ultimate gambler. While she can hold up a facade for a short time, but she's no good at keeping it up over the long haul. She claims she can lie to herself, but even that doesn't seem to be true. She's lying about her own skills, and can't even get herself to believe it.

Like so many characters in Dangan ronpa, she would've been very interesting to see more of.

Love her except for in her trial. Very cunning and intelligent although I wish she was part of sdr2

I just always wonder how her relationship with her cat must have been like. Although, I would assume they are both almost the same, personality wise.

Probably my favorite character in the first game (with Sakura being a close 2nd). I love her how ultimate skill is essentially lying, as that is very useful in a survival situation. Although, she doesn't seem to show it in the 3rd trial with her piss-poor preference while trying to frame Hagakure.

Celeste is another one of those characters I connect with. She tries to remain calm and collected, and works to project this icy, "I don't care about you or anybody" demeanor. But when she's pressed, she bursts into fits of anger and instantly resorts to name calling. also dat loli doe

One of the more memorable characters in DR1, I honestly think she's pretty creepy, especially the sprite where she leans closer to you. With all that pale make up and super long hair, I was honestly just waiting for her to make a super creepy face ( a la Nagito's screen in the first trial in DR2).

Character Discussion #13 - Sonia Nevermind (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Princess

Game: Goodbye Despair

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Organizes Girl Meet Up at Beach in Ch 2

Brings up the idea of a Serial Killer during Ch 2 Investigation, further interjecting once a verdict has been reached regarding the Serial Killer

Initial Suspect of Ch 3 due to Fuyuhiko Kuzuryuu

Bonds with Gundham Tanaka before/throughout Chapter 4, investigating with him

Discovers the 'bombs' are actually fireworks in Ch 5

Refuses to believe Chiaki Nanami is the traitor

Escapes the Virtual Reality to live on Jabberwock Island at the game's conclusion

Discuss anything pertaining Sonia Nevermind, the Ultimate Princess!

Character Order for Discussions

This long-ass post is about a girl. Probably my favourite in Danganronpa 2. Sonia is not the most ingenious member of school, but she has so many layers to her character that all feed into each other and breed yet more layers. So much so you'd be forgiven for thinking her character is constantly in bloom.

Okay, so she's a princess from a fictional European nation attending the most prestigious school in Japan. She has a hell of a lot of class to portray if she wants to make Novoselic look good, so there's a pressure to her presentation the other characters don't have to bear, even in the killing game. And she does so quite well, I like that she has the pride of national honour but the dignity and understanding to realise that her homeland is actually quite small and unknown, so she's an effective emissary.

And it carries over into her character too. She's regal, prim and proper, but not uptight, so on a surface level, she's just great to be around for the entire game. But she also has this youthful naivete about her on account of being a fish out of water. Even in casual dialogue, you find out that Novoselic both fosters some weird customs and is sheltered from others the rest of the characters take for granted. The leading TV show of the country is a shonen action anime, but some fauna that is second nature (well...nature nature) to us just doesn't exist in Novoselic for whatever reason.

Why is this so cool? It makes her inquisitive, always learning, and most importantly, always wanting to learn. She's such an eager character, both to share with us her own experiences and to learn everyone else's, that she is infectiously attuned to the surroundings, even if some things initially elude her. There's a deliberate attempt on her part at showing a great deal of social grace, such is her title, but when she falters, it doesn't make her look incompetent, it merely highlights how she comes from a different place than the rest of the cast.

But it's also this exposure to the world that leads to some moments of great comedy. Sonia is somewhat of a prude, but she's also a sheltered teenage girl, so she's done things she's not exactly proud to let slip for fear of reprisal. So when Gundam says he needs the blood of a virgin for a spell, Sonia says "I'm afraid my blood will not do, then", and when it's revealed at the end that everything was taped to Future Foundation, she says hurriedly that she did some unsavoury things on those cameras, which Byakuya corroborates with a lot of disgust. These are my two favourite jokes in the entire game, because they're sex jokes that are just understated enough.

But getting back to Sonia, how does she stack up in the actual mystery? She demonstrates a lot of compassion for her fellow classmates, always expressing sorrow when she comes across a body, almost always expressing some measure of disgust for the killer and always expressing shock at the following execution. Her lack of supreme confidence is probably what gives Twogami the leadership role at the start of the game, but her position means she has a lot to live up to when the chips are down, and she has some great moments of boosting morale with some awesome speeches. Particularly one where the whole crew is on the cusp of despair, and she doesn't speak over them, but confides with them on their own level, saying something to the effect of "I don't fear death, but I don't intend to die easily either."

She's not made of stone. Her attachment to Gundam (by the by, it actually makes lots of sense for Sonia to be the only one legitimately taken aback by his supposed sorcery, so there's a hell of a lot of chemistry here) causes her to truly strain and buckle when it's discovered he has blood on his hands, even if it's for debatably good reasons. She is very emotional, but this is all done to showcase her attachment to her classmates and her belief in them; it's not weakness, it's a trait, and this is emphasised every step of the way. That's why she rises to the challenge, especially in the end. She has a drive for success, not just for herself, but because she believes in others. That's really respectable. And something worth noting is that while she has a great degree of naivete, she is never presented as unintelligent. Every mistake she makes in regards to logic is simply because of her upbringing somewhere else. In fact, she comes off as quite intuitive once things are going down. Something that I felt was very, very deliberate was that she has by far the most Consent moments during the Non-Stop Debates across every case, because she approaches every case with a critical but open mind, befitting of her character. Just because she's not attuned to the overall setting does not mean she never understands what is right in front of her.

I feel like I'm doing a terrible job at explaining what makes her so great (though I'd rather not be all apologies about it), but every facet of her character feels natural and feeds into another. Her naïvete and sheltered outlook makes her curious, and it's this curiosity that makes her invested in her surroundings, and it's this investment that feeds into her attachment for her classmates. It's this attachment that causes her emotions to feel real in the moment, and it's the aftermath of these big emotional moments that give her the drive to succeed, and it's this confidence that drives her outlook.

She's just a naturally woven character built from the ground up in a very intelligent way where nothing about her character seems contradictory. I would argue she's one of the few characters where her Ultimate talent is not only consistent with her character but necessary; take away her regal status and you lose something in the process. But everything justifies everything, everything begets everything.

If I had something in the way of an issue with her, something to make me say "hey, wait, I got a new complaint", it would be a handful of the background details on her home country. Wait...every citizen in Novoselic has to take some measure of combat vehicle training? Well, I hope you're ready for a friendly visit from the UN!

This is more for confirmation but what are those unsavory things she did in camera?

Masturbate.

Yup.

It's never explicitly said. Given the game's humor and the wording I'd assume something sexual.

I'm gonna say banging Gundham.

I feel like a fair number of people see Sonia as something of a generic "nice" girl that happened to survive until the end of the game or see her as the girl who was just there to be invested in Gundham when he died. She still happens to be one of my favorite characters, both as an individual and also why she got so close to Gundham.

I can kinda see more why Sonia would end up falling into ultimate despair though. A lot of her character framework comes from a blend of Sayaka Maizono, Byakuya Togami, Aoi Asahina, and Yasuhiro Hagakure, making for a strange blend, but judging from her popularity, it works pretty well. She totally got her Ultimate Murder Suspect talent from Hagakure, because she's suspicious or does something suspicious in pretty much every chapter. Not only that, a fair number of players suspect her to be the traitor or the mastermind, and many people feel she just seems too nice, ready to go crazy or strike at any minute. But nope!

She's got some really unorthodox tastes and hobbies, from Serial killers, J-Dramas, horror films, freemasonry, the occult, you name it. At the same time, she has to be a political figure, so PR is a huge deal. She mentioned she's been kidnapped before and has no choice but to remain stoic. She mentions at the start of the game that she's never gotten to be close to people her age because of her duties as an ultimate Princess. Additionally, as a political head, she has the obvious stressful responsibilities to handle, as well as constantly maintaining PR. She notes that she would gladly serve her people, though.

In other words, she has to constantly mask her feelings, and even when she gets the rare chance to express her interests or her true self, they are so unorthodox that I wouldn't be surprised by her not being well accepted and she'd get written of as a really weird girl. Additionally, you have people who rely on her. You've got people who don't rely on her that can't see past the "princess" side of her. She genuinely cares for her people, which is why she is willing to surrender a great deal of her identity, but it still takes a massive toll on her.

It's no surprise that Tanaka is the student in the group she gets so close with. He's got plenty of unorthodox interests of his own, and instead masks his personality through his evil overlord self, so Sonia is likely able to see right through it while most of the others just write it off as him being a weird guy. She's looking at him from the outside and probably sees that he's just acting that way to push others away. She's in the opposite boat in that she's very well accepted, but only a very specific part of her personality is what's accepted, so she never has the opportunity to express to the others what she feels very strongly about, so while most of the other cast just distances themselves from Gundham, Sonia is one of the few to not only draw closer, but completely catch him off guard.

I felt that was the purpose of having Kazuichi constantly go on his "Miss Sonia" bit. It's the same reason we Hiyoko bully Mikan. It helps to convince us of just what that character goes through. I noticed when Kazuichi would talk about what things he actually likes about her, it seems he likes the idea of Sonia more than Sonia herself. He would say things that he's always wanted to go out with a blonde, or point out how intelligent she is, or something really generic. I didn't really get the impression that he knew her that well or could accurately describe her personality. With Sonia and Gundham, you could immediately tell they had mutual interests and that they had specific traits or beliefs the other one respected. I don't think the SoniaXGundham thing they put in felt contrived in the slightest for that reason.

Her care expands with the whole group. She takes the time to look for a gift for Fuyuhiko when he's recovering in chapter 3, according to the transitions for her free time events. She gets pissed with Nagito for Insulting Byakuya and Gundham. She's one of the few students that will regularly stand up for Mikan, even calling out Gundham himself at one point in trial 3.

But for all her caring, there is still a constant gap between Sonia and the rest of the world, one that grows more and more as she surrenders more of herself and having to do more for her people or for her group. Take a few examples from her free time events:

"It seems not many people understand this feeling of mine...and because of that, I feel quite lonely. Sometimes I feel like I could just cry...However...expanding my knowledge like this is the duty of every member of the royal family.

And

"My life belongs to my country and my people. If I were to die, it would be for no other reason than the sake of my country and my people."

Sonia doesn't have a problem with risking her life, like how she was casually gonna go check the final dead room for investigative purposes, but she takes things much harder when it involves having to sacrifice units in her group or having to turn against them, making this killing game a horrible place for her. The only times she makes ridiculously wrong assertions in trials is when the correct answer involves her having to turn against her friends. There is an extra student and serial killer on the island (Trial 2). Monokuma moved the pillar (Trial 4). I am the killer because I brought up the idea of the fire grenades, so please vote me. I meet the same suspect criteria as Chiaki, so suspect me along with her (Trial 5).

All of the answers she throws out in these scenarios are quite ridiculous and might even seem a bit out of character for how generally sharp she is in the trials, but it makes complete sense when the alternative is "one of your friends did it." She's been accustomed to having to sacrifice her own identity for the good of her group, so it stings a lot more when she's not able to do that to solve the problem. It's no surprise Junko was able to exploit that and get her as Ultimate Despair. Convince Sonia to sacrifice herself over the others and you'll break her in a second.

When I first finished chapter 1 of DR 2 and saw that the game was mirroring elements of the first game but ultimately going in different directions with the end results, I was absolutely convinced that Nekomaru was going to be the chapter 4 victim, but if I hadn't thought him, Sonia would have been my next guess. The only reason I wouldn't see her committing suicide to save everyone else is because killing herself would throw her own kingdom into turmoil and cause a great deal of problems with handling things from there, so she doesn't just have the killing school trip to worry about, but the fate and status of her people as well.

The climax moment for her would have to be cases 4 and 5. Case 4 has her in absolute wreck. In pretty much every trial, most notably trials 3, 4, and 5, Sonia is able to do fine and help with solving the mystery with next to no problem, but it's not until the killer is outed where she starts to fall apart, because Sonia is arguably the character who gets hit hardest with the reality of having to condemn your close friends. She is almost always the one to speak up to want to hear the killer's rebuttal. She does it with Mikan, she urges Gundham to fight back when the suspicion is on him, and when Chiaki tells everyone that she believes herself to be the killer and urges a suicide vote, Sonia steps in herself and tries to argue against it, acting as the final rebuttal showdown opponent, in fact. (Side note: that "I do not want to hear that" line is my favorite part of trial 5 and easily my favorite rebuttal showdown along with Gundham's RS in chapter 4)

In the case of Gundham, she and Akane's reactions showed just how much the two of them had been moved by Nekomaru and Gundham's actions, and she notes in chapter 5 how much she respects the two for upholding their convictions and fighting to move everyone forward, but still not just hand over their lives. Sonia takes a bit of every student with her. Her biggest dilemma in the final chapter is having to lose what she gained with all of her classmates and not wanting to forget any of them. A pretty good example is in chapter 5 in a rare moment where Sonia gets pretty angry and leaves on her own when she refuses to give up on the plan to search for the castle password even though it's unlikely and maybe impossible to find. She was that moved by Nekomaru and Gundham, and each student taught Sonia something she carries with her, and she refuses to leave that behind as she accepts her past self and renounces her ultimate despair status at the end of DR 2.

On a side note, I like to think she decided to return to her kingdom and atone for her change in behavior, possibly erected a statue of Nekomaru and Gundham for their funhouse sacrifice, and probably got the technological front to acquire the software needed to get Chiaki back in everyone's lives. Hell, she probably set up something in her kingdom in honor of all of her classmates if they all get out of being cared for in the VR machines. Sonia is one of my favorite DR 2 characters just for humor and for personality. I can see how she'd be taken as just the generic nice girl that made it until the end, but I welcome her character and got more than that out of her playing through the game.

That's Sonia for ya. There's also that part about the dirty jo--

You know what. I think I did a good synopsis of her already. Nevermind.

Which dirty joke

Alas, even the Princess cannot avoid the nature of Danganronpa humour!

A jazzy cool cat with legs that just won't quit.

[S]Her Rosie the Riveter 'We Can Do It'-esque sprite is amongst my favorite sprites series wide, it always represents when she's pumped or determined to do something and that just gets me pumped as well, Sonia just has that charm to her!

Sonia is a very cool gal, indubitably.

Here. Something about sonia that i can't stop laughing about it:

http://imgur.com/5na0oGu
Sonia is a ok character for me. She is carismatic, sometimes funny and can be very caring(except for souda) but i still find her less interesting compared to nagito, mukuro and mikan probably because she is somehow generic in terms of personality. Yet, she have a more interesting personality than makoto in some aspects.

Personally one of the most undeserving people to have survived. I mean what did she do the entirety of the game? Nothing really important, I mean she had the thing with Gundham but that helped develop him and Kazuichi more, rather than her. Both my brother and I don't understand why she's so popular she was just kinda there the entire game. Also her FTE's aren't even that great and left me with more questions than answers. You can over analyze her and say how deep she is, and that's fine it won't change my opinion of her though of an extremely bland character who should've died off. Also maybe it's more prevalent in the Japanese voice acting, but she didn't really swear all that much in my opinion, I can only name like two instances and even then they didn't leave an impact on me.

I think you've totally missed the point and appeal of her character, but since you said nothing will change your opinion I will leave you to it.

But saying the analysis of her depth is overanalysis is a cheap way to discredit her as a character.

It's all opinions my friend, for me she lacked in every department of character thus was unappealing to me. I personally didn't find much depth to her thus I view others as being over analytical of her character, but others are welcome to disagree. After all these threads are meant to spark discussion

Different strokes for different folks I guess!

I think her role in the group dynamic made her at the very least a lot better of a surviving character than Hagakure. Hagakure has his own brand of humour, but the actual character it's attached to is one I will hate eternally.

Also, if memory serves I do think they tuned down her swearing a bit. It was more frequent from what I recall while following fan translations, but in the localized game proper I can only really think of Ch 5 for where she swears.

And the bonus cooking scene if you count Hella. I swear they also removed a lot of her 'Hella' counts too, it feels so sparse in the localization.

Eh. She was alright. Was pretty funny with her crude humor and terrible slang but other times she came off as boring.

So it's a mix for me.

I really like Sonia and I always have a hard time explaining why I gravitate towards her character, which is what I think the game intended. She gives off some sort of subconscious likability, which obviously is embodied in the way the men on the island interact with her (cough Kazuichi cough).

At first glance, since she's an "Ultimate Princess," I thought her personality would be like what Hiyoko's is - a brat, essentially. But she's always trying to learn and grow and hear more about unfamiliar cultures. She's definitely naïve, but naïvite doesn't go hand-in-hand with stupidity. Sonia's intelligence really shines in Chapter 5, when she uncovers that the bombs are actually fireworks, as well as in Chapter 2, when she reveals how many languages she's fluent in.

She functions as the Hina of SDR2, always maintaining that the students are all friends, and firmly believing that the best way to find a way off the island is to work together.

I have a soft spot for Sonia because, as a student of sociology and criminology, my heart leapt when she told Hajime about her love for serial killers. I can admit that I'm one of those people who spends hours on wikipedia reading about murderers for some reason, so it really made me smile to see that a DR character is also that way.

And of course, Sonia x Gundham is adorable.

I find her an interesting parallel to Byakuya. They are both students whose "talent" is something they are born into, not something a person really does. There is a lot more than that to them, but since this isn't about Byakuya I'll focus on Sonia.

Sonia acts a bit out there, accentuating her foreign-ness. Yet she still offers help where she can, demonstrating a fascination with serial killers and weaponry (even if the prior ends up being a red herring at least she's trying).

Even the other characters all love her, Hajime remarks about her royal beauty and says he doesn't deserve her attention (also possibly an early insight into his self esteem issues). Kazuichi goes so far as an obsession with her. It's little surprise she's one of the last people alive, she seems like the last person anyone would want to kill (at least, without an incentive similar to the one that killed Mahiru).

Speaking of Kazuichi's obsession, his stalking is portrayed a bit differently than the comedic stalkery of Toko with Togami. She's expressly against it but doesn't actively push him away so much as occasionally call him her stalker. It could suggest she is a less pushy person, which she is, or it could indicate she has had stalkers before and knows sending them away doesn't do any good.

one of the only characters in the entire franchise i actively dislike. she's up there with hiyoko and yamada

Character Discussion #14 - Monokuma (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: N/A

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc, Goodbye Despair, Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Active

Notable Roles:

It's Monokuma.
Discuss anything pertaining your one and only Headmaster, Monokuma!

Character Order for Discussions

If you ever want to make Danganronpa about 5 times funnier, just remember that Junko is the one saying every part of Monokuma's dialogue.

He's a sexy son of a gun
All jokes aside, he is such a funny character. You can't not love him. I even forget that he is killing people. The fact that he is Junko (my fav character) makes it even better. He's one of the best designed characters in the series.

this is the only way i can describe monokuma
bonus: http://i.imgur.com/tOzQhU1.jpg

XD. All I can think of with that picture is the mastermind strutting around saying that in the Monokuma room.

It seems like Junko wanted to make a coherent character for him but kept changing her mind...

She wanted Monokuma to be honest (probably to give more despair by showing anyone could be convinced to kill), but found that she couldn't get everything done without a little deceit. She wanted to give him a backstory, but couldn't decide on one so she threw everything she thought of into it. She keeps insisting he's a real bear despite the fact that she knows almost nothing about bears.

One place Monokuma succeeds though is in staying comedic despite the rather dark theme. While the students are killing each other off Monokuma doesn't miss a step on joking around.

Presumably that's because Monokuma was finally established as an entertainer. For the same reason that Sakura gets away with directly fighting Monokuma when Mukuro got impaled for stepping on him. Nobody was watching so it wouldn't have been much of a spectacle (the fact that there probably wasn't a trap set up and that Sakura might have survived whatever trap the bear used aside). The students get as much time as they need for most of the trials (except trial 5 for DR1), only calling for voting when they seem to have debated and reached an actual conclusion instead of just making them jump to a conclusion... All for the sake of giving the audience (and the player, if we're going for meta as well) a "good" show...

He presents us with the Monokuma Files.

But are we not the true Monokuma-philes?

You can't hate Monokuma you just can't. If you do, something is wrong with you

Agreed, when people do hate him, I wonder why they would even play a game like DR?

It's clear he's just a stand-in for the villain and someone to have on the cover of the games to illustrate a significant character without spoiling the games, but I still love this sick little bastard. He has his own backstory apparently including plenty of non sequitur humor (seriously, there's a point where he was rapping, followed by a trick where you make yourself float away by putting your hands beneath your thighs, which apparently will cause a reform in traffic laws).

He's a sneaky bastard making absolutely sure to word everything he says carefully, which is what I love about him. Monokuma very rarely if ever lies. He just crafts everything he says very carefully, so while he's very silly and pretty much a troll, that part of him and the fact that you know the one behind him is the mastermind always gives an air of fear because you know how much more intelligent he actually is.

In chapter 4, he delivers on everything he promises--ship parts, a treat, your school profiles, future foundation information...he just neglected to mention that it'd involve being starved to death, being forced to play Russian Roulette with 5 bullets in a 6 chamber gun to get to the information, and that the ship parts are actually toy ship parts, but hey, details!

Not really much I can say about the character, seeing that he's just a static, random guy clearly meant to be a stand-in, but his presence is very welcome. Not only that, but he takes the time to put together punishments that are just there to irritate the killers in their last few moments of living all because "why the hell not? Squeeze out some extra despair."

Monokuma is the SHSL troll. I'm sure of it.

On a side note, since we're coming up on a few of the WoH and other characters most of us really wouldn't have anything to say much on, do you think we could do two characters a week at some point just to get to the more interesting ones? For example, I really don't think anyone is going to have anything notable to say about Masaru.

[S]Yeah, I was thinking of doing 2 characters a week upon some of the smaller characters but didn't get any feedback when I first suggested it, so I just went with Kurokuma at the time by his lonesome.

Probably will switch to two characters unless there's some major objection, only problem is deciding if I do them at the same time (there might be some other news to sticky so can't double) since I don't wanna give one more attention than the other, or post one then the second one halfway through the week.

I see your point, yeah. I think doing two a week with one done halfway through the week would be good. The people that post most consistently would be quick to jump in anyway, so perhaps double up with these guys?

Haiji and Masaru
Jataro and Nagisa
I think Shirokuma won't be getting much attention either, but we've got an odd number of people. Maybe throw him together with Teruteru? Monaca will probably garner enough responses to hold up on her own for a week, and Kotoko definitely would be able to get attention if not just for that scene.

[S]I think Shirokuma won't be getting much attention either, but we've got an odd number of people. Maybe throw him together with Teruteru?

Looking at it now I probably will bump him up, feels bad to shaft an actual class mate though. Meanwhile Kurokuma lucked out and got an entire week to himself. I looked back and I'm still surprised he got more discussion than Mondo and Monomi, rip.

Sub might be exhausted out with all the controversy from that scene right now, but I agree it's gonna dominate the comments when the time comes.

All fair and reasonable points there. Thanks for being the one to direct all this, by the way. You're doing great.

[S]No problem, though I feel I should be thanking you, the others that post consistently at such lengths and the community here for keeping this a thing. Seriously, you guys rock and give me some great things to read about my favorite franchise, so thanks!

I'm glad that I'm doing a satisfactory job!

[S]Anyone have a sense just for what the heck half the Monokuma theatres are? I just rationalized it as some levity in between portions of the game, a lot of them just seem really random or forces me to go out of my way to get such as the Morse Code edition of Monokuma theatre.

I like Monokuma himself, whimsical comic relief that can turn the serious dial up a notch when needed. I've seen some people say his character was flanderized in the sequel by upping his silliness and Monomi's inclusion but I think they just gave him more moments to be silly, he was just as silly in the first game.

Plus, he didn't care as much in the 2nd game since it was just to draw Future Foundation in, as opposed to the whole world seeing the Trigger Happy Havoc broadcast.

Conceptually, I think the Theatres are there to establish his presence yet more. Even in the days of Free Time Events, you can't escape him. Thematically, some of the ones in the first game were just foreshadowing, but I think most were just to let him give his perspective on many facets of the world and little more.

"You think you can escape? Not even in your dreams!"

I wonder if his nonsensical stories are actually what the protagonist would be dreaming if their minds weren't being weighed down by killing school life...

At least a few of them give direct hints to the story or later twists, particularly in the first game. The two that immediately spring to mind would be one in chapter one where Monokuma tells a story about not being able to avoid staring at pretty girls, ending off with staring in the mirror, which is the first hint we get that he's being controlled by a girl. And then later, right before the second killing, he gives a speech in one of the theaters about the difference between crimes of passion and calculated intent, even prodding you to read between the lines.

I remember one that also hints he was being controlled by a girl, where he mentioned his vitals.

This is really generic but I love Monokuma. He's just so funny playing off serious things as jokes! I know he's actually Junko and I absolutely adore her too but Monokuma is just.... So random in every way possible. He can get pretty annoying though, sometimes. But that was probably his voice actor...

Ahh, now we're getting into the really good characters. And I went in not wanting to like Monokuma! Gee, a teddy bear that makes light-hearted humour and is the mascot of an otherwise fairly serious game. Never seen that before. But Monokuma is insanely good. Maybe my standards for villains have been seriously lowered in the past few years (Gorram Caius Ballad...), but the balance between light-hearted humour, black comedy, comic relief, villainy and dread is down to a T in the first two games.

You hate Monokuma. He's devious, he's placed these innocent children in a killing game both for his own amusement and to spread the dread the kids feel amongst anyone else who might be watching from outside. Nothing about his motives are the slightest bit sympathetic. He's pure evil and completely impossible to relate to, and what makes him scary is that his nature is impossible to comprehend. He insists he's not a teddy bear...but then what?

And yet he's easy to love. He's quick with a joke, and his trolling manner might not make him affable for the characters, but they do make him affable for the player. So you have a character who you can only hate and yet you have no choice but to love, and this induced ambivalence creates another sense of unnerving within the player. You shouldn't like Monokuma, because he's a dick, but his jokes are sharp, he's affable and, with a few deliberate exceptions, never overstays his welcome.

I think his theme song perfectly encapsulates him. When you hear those first few organ chords, the minor scale portrays a general feeling of "uh oh", but then you hear these loud drums crash and bang before moving into light ska. It's kind of dischordant, but is tons of wacky fun to hear. And yet when those weird tribal voices kick in, with a hint of reverb, it reinforces how the bear's nature is unknowable. Same as the voices, what exactly is this thing I'm talking to?

I think his greatest asset as a villain is his propensity to play with exact wording. His school rules are tightly written to include loopholes the kids won't always catch on to instantly; things like "no stealing or borrowing IDs but loaning is okay". It truly sets up Monokuma as the big bad force ruling the school. If you follow the rules, you'll be okay, so he's never unfair in the strictest sense, but that he can bend them to his will upon conception means he makes it really hard for everyone involved. He's not unfair, he's not a cheater, but oh, is he tyrannical. The best bit of the first game is when he does cheat in Chapter 5. Because then you know you've got him on the ropes and it's oh so gratifying.

Of course, it speaks wonders of the incredible balance at play in his character that not every incarnation gets it right. The anime portrayed him poorly, swapping out his kinda dulcet "puhuhuhu" for a Three Stooges "nyuck nyuck nyuck" and going overboard on the jokes without enough direct intervention on his part to make him an actual villain. And in Another Episode...well, he wasn't in that. Not really. You fought robots that looked like him and spouted one-liners, but Monokuma the villain wasn't in this.

And I guess there's the obvious point that Monokuma isn't the villain, and also sort of isn't real; all of this is Junko. But I prefer Monokuma working in her stead as a foil, because it gives her more reason to play a character within this fictional world, giving the both of them more definition. When Asahina temporarily plays Monokuma, you know he's acting out of character, but when Junko re-assumes control, it's as if he never left.

Yeah I love this guy. I like his voice, whether in Japanese or English, because you don't expect high pitch squeals out of a murderous teddy bear. I like his design, with a clean split of a white, typical look of an anthropomorphised teddy bear and a black, red lightning bolt eyed monstrosity. All of this dissonance highlights the discord that gives Monokuma their unnerving flavour, and of all the choices I would have made to the series in hindsight to make it more serious, I wouldn't have Monokuma any other way.

Roleplaying him is fun.

Something i'm sure that i will see on people's comments about the next character discussions:

Mikan: she sucks. She killed ibuki blah blah blah least favorite character blah blah blah fanservice girl.

Chiaki: omg omg best character blah blah blah fuck nagito for killed her blah blah blah waifu.

Junko: omg i hate her blah blah blah killed mukuro and most of the favorite characters blah blah blah generic villain

Makoto: generic main character blah blah blah

Hajime: best protag, i can identify with him blah blah blah love his cynical way blah blah blah

Just wait. XD

About monokuma...well...what we can say...it's monokuma.

mikan is well received, though.

If you want a preview, I'll give you what I'll think on each one:

Mikan: One of the coolest and most carefully designed characters (arguably at the level of Nagito) that got an amazing concept, but poorer delivery.

Chiaki: not at my number one, but I like her for a different reason than most. She's not best girl for me.

Junko: Crazy as hell and just as insightful to go with it.

Makoto: Generic, but underrated.

Hajime: Not bad, but really overrated. Lots of fans are a little too quick to overlook certain points of the game when comparing him to Makoto.

That's the TL;DR of what I'd end up saying about these guys.

Most of the characters end being a bit underrated by the simple fact that they killed someone's favorite character ¬¬ i read tons of hate comments on mikan for killing ibuki and i was like "really? you hate her because she killed ibuki?" i really wanted to say that: "oh cmon guys, how about we evaluate her for more than just killing ibuki?" (but seriously, people really hate hiyoko. Most of the hate comments on mikan is because she killed ibuki but then they end not hating her too much because she killed hiyoko too XD)

I find the same problem with nagito aswell. And i don't even need to say the why isn't it? cough chiaki nanami cough (i kinda find nagito way more well-written than mikan in some aspects)

Also i wanted to understand why people prefer monokuma over junko XD he is basically junko

Yeah, it makes even less sense since the only reason she even committed the murder was because she made the choice to treat all of her diseased friends. I could see someone not liking say...Celeste for killing if they liked Ishimaru or Hifumi, but Mikan was just as much a victim of that case as Ibuki and Hiyoko, I felt.

Celes: killed ishimaru and hifumi mainly for money. (People like her)

Mikan: killed ibuki and hiyoko for being affected by the despair disease while trying to take care of her sickened friends. (People hate her)

Wut?

It seems like a common issue of overlooking parts of a character to make them fit a niche, or just make them taking a very cursory look at them. It's just a lot more noticeable in Danganronpa than other series because the characters are all so complicated and ignoring even a part of their backstory completely changes how you see them.

Some fans behave like this for example, in the series One Piece lots of fans hate Akainu because he killed a character a lot of people liked, when he's just performing his job. Personally I think its a stupid reason to hate a character just cause of that.

Regarding why DR fans generally prefer Monokuma over Junko (some even hate Junko but like Monokuma) despite being the same person. I've had this discussion with quite a few of these people and most of them have said, they find Junko too 'erratic, insane, psychotic' compared to Monokuma who's more 'sinister and creepy'. To which I point out that Monokuma is just one of Junko's personalities and is part of her character. If any of you here have read Togami novel spin-off, Junko appears there and acts just like Mukuro did in her disguise of Junko. Showing she's a master of disguise.

I haven't finished DR2 yet (just finished chapter 2), but I don't like Mikan cause... She's way too submissive. It's like, yeah, she probably got bullied, but I hate the way that she could stop so much of the hate she gets by Hiyoko or the others by saying something, anything in her defence. It hurts to watch how pained she is, and if I wanted to tell a fictional character anything, I'd tell her to just say something...

I really like Junko. She's completely nuts, and like the polar opposite of Nagito. They basically believe in the same philosophy, but are on different sides of it. They both believe that hope begets greater despair and despair begets greater hope which is pretty true if you think about it.

And I like Makoto, but Hajime is way too cynical for me. Mainly from the prologue. Sure, his suspicions were confirmed to be true, but he acted more like the characters in DR1 after they met Monokuma... It's just... He doesn't seem to know how to have fun...

How did this thread end up being practically nothing to do with Monokuma?...

OMG THANKS! THANKS THAT THERE STILL SOME PERSONS AROUND THAT HAVE SOLID ARGUMENTS FOR NOT LIKING A CHARACTER! (serious, i'm happy and OMG you haven't finished DR2 YET?! but this thread might contains spoilers! be careful!)

I like mikan exactly for the fact that even if she keep being bullied, she tries her hardest to help everyone.

Junko is meh for me. I feel like she is a very forced villain.

(This thread have completelly ignored monokuma's existence lol, sorry KORRIN)

Thanks. You're really nice. :) Usually differences in opinion end up causing arguments, so it's really awesome that we're not, and I definitely see where you're coming from (though if I ever play an RP with Hiyoko, I'm gonna try to have her develop to become friends with her to talk some sense into her :)). I never really thought about it like that. Hajime described it as having power over people I think, but you're right that even though she's had a tough life, she still wants to help people.

Still want her to harden up though. :)

Yeah, there's not many places to talk about it when you're in the middle of the game, so I just try to avoid reading half of it.

It was really nice speaking to you. Thanks! :)

No problem. I'm glad to have find someone like you aswell. Looking forward to talk with you again in the future. =D

[S] 
Rrrrgh! I'm being upstaged by these brats? UNFORGIVABLE! I mean, I'm the mascot character!

Buuuut... if you buy, say a million Monokuma plushies, maybe I'll forgive you then!

All discussion is good discussion, poor Monokuma though, pushed aside in his own discussion thread!

A shame really, I actually like all these characters, even psycho Junko...

Actually, i like mikan too. Is just when someone talk about her, is about she killing ibuki and their hate for that. ¬¬

Initial Thoughts

Oh great Teddie part 2. That's fun.

Me at the 3rd chapter of DR1

God damn this dude is insane, but funny. It's like that one person in your group of friends who looks like he's on edge 24/7, but actually pretty alright despite that.

After DR1

Welp.

My least favorite character is my favorite one too.

Ain't that just swell.

After DR2 Prologue

Thank Jesus, Usami is finally out of the spotlight. My everything cringed whenever she's on screen. But anyway, how the FUCK is he here? Isn't Junko, Y'know, DEAD?

After DR2 and AE

ohhhhhhhh that makes a lot more sense now

After IF

Well now I feel bad for calling Mukuro my least favorite. She's kinda badass! Oh yeah also Junko you clever bastard.

Character Discussion #15 - Ibuki Mioda (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Musician

Game: Goodbye Despair

Status: Comatose

Notable Roles:

Hearing skills allow her to recall what was said during the blackout in Chapter 1

Was involved in the Video Game Motive of Chapter 2

Falls prey to the Despair Disease in Chapter 3, before ultimately becoming a victim in the case

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Musician, Ibuki Mioda!

Character Order for Discussions

I'll be completely honest in saying I'm one of those bastards that never really got attached to Ibuki. By this point, Gundham had already taken root as my favorite hammy, over the top character. Don't get me wrong, I didn't hate her one bit, it's just that I never got particularly attached to her.

Sure enough, we were all hangin' with Ibuki come chapter 3 with the despair disease. When she contracts the despair disease, she spouts a bunch of canned phrases and loses all sense of what makes Ibuki "Ibuki." It's pretty sad seeing her like that, to be perfectly honest.

I even went through her free time events again quite recently, and the biggest takeaway you can get from Ibuki is that she is quite emotionally intelligent. The events end with Ibuki revealing that she's been trying to help Hajime remember his talent during the whole set of FTEs. I feel to a player that has finished the whole game, the full extent of how impressive that is isn't felt.

Not many other characters specifically mention Hajime's insecurity over not knowing his talent (only to reveal later that he had none), but keep in mind since you can hang out with the characters as soon as you meet them, Ibuki is able to accurately read what makes Hajime tick from the very second she meets him. She comes off as really silly and probably not too smart to an unsuspecting player, but the fact that she has such a solid understanding of Hajime's personality within seconds of meeting him speaks volumes about her own personality. You wouldn't feel the full effect of it if you completed the game because you'd feel "well of course, that's what makes Hajime tick."

She is able to catch on at a much faster pace than the game reveals those facts, and even ends up hinting at the ending too with one of her last lines.

I feel like you're someone who's willing to go far away to search for yourself...

Ibuki called the Izuru Kamakura twist confirmed.

There is another aspect to her that is somewhat lost in translation.

I want to play music with someone who trusts me as much as I trust them.

In the Japanese version, rather than Ultimate Musician, she was the Ultimate Light Music Club Member or something to that effect, which was what made the scene in chapter 3 even more shocking because it was way beyond what anyone was expecting.

The idea was that Ibuki had a preference for a different genre of music than she was awarded her talent for, but is not as "talented" at it. But from her FTEs, Ibuki showed that she clearly preferred connections and a sense of unity above everything else, noting that being good at instruments comes with sufficient practice, but those connections are much harder to fit together.

I still do wish there was a bit more to her, or that she was given some kind of climax point. In Gundham's case, from the second you meet him, he's hammy and randomly pops in the way Ibuki does, but he at least builds up to the point in chapter 4, and a lot of his dialogue is foreshadowing what's up to come. In Ibuki's case, she got a really bum deal as the chapter 3 victim, also known as "THAT chapter" as my friend (an Avid Mikan fan) calls it. :P

I like Ibuki and her presence was a very welcome one in DR 2. I still sort of wish we got a bit more attention and insight with her though. I'm satisfied with the outcome of chapter 4, but I still think it'd be cool to see Ibuki interacting in that chapter because of how the soundproof rooms would affect her if she had borderline super hearing. You could play with that a lot.

On a side note, she has one of my favorite lines when you try to interact with her at one point. It's not an exact quote, but it's the jist of it:

Man, I'm feeling really sleepy right now...OH CRAP! Does that mean I'm going to start overlapping with Chiaki's character!?

Some characters in Danganronpa are likeable. Some characters are ones you are rooting for until the very end, ones you'd give anything to see live to see the credits. And some characters are called Ibuki Mioda.

She is instantly likeable. Her introduction, either spelling out each letter or saying each syllable comes from her own name, is peppy and upbeat, her costume design might look a bit abrasive but it's at least lively, and her manner is just...she is excitement incarnate. There isn't a moment where Ibuki is really tranquil. Even without her musical tendencies catching you off-guard, one look at her tells you all you need to know about her role in the story.

But she's great. I love her. I think her refusal to relent in being anything but turned up to eleven is actually what elevates her character; it makes her the "comic relief", even moreso than Teruteru because she's never pulled down by a moment where she has to be po-faced for the sake of the plot's emotional sincerity. Her reaction to every death is "BLUBBLUBLUB", and this works because it reinforces the idea she's a limitless wellspring of pure energy.

Your mileage may vary, but I never found her annoying because her detachment to everything around her gave her more leeway for self-expression, and the fact that she stands out so much isn't hampered by having to truly engage in proceedings, so there's no need for reckless suspension of disbelief. I can't buy some other characters not having enough of a reaction to the killing game, but Ibuki is aloof enough to support it.

That's not to say she's unintelligent, but she certainly comes across as unintuitive. Much like Gundam, a lot of her dialogue consists of an impromptu one-liner in the middle of a scene. The "girl love" one comes to mind. She has moments of dry, sardonic edge alongside her general "gee whiz yay" attitude, which I honestly think might maybe put her above Gundam in terms of characters who do little but spout humourous asides to the current situation.

But that's bias talking, no doubt. Most Ultimate talents are pretty middling to me, but her talent of Ultimate Musician spoke to me. To see her reference Anthrax/Public Enemy, Korn and Disturbed, I was like "hell yeah, I get these jokes so I have to take to this character!" Honestly, I'm surprised she never made a pun off of Sonia's name, like "Oh, don't worry so much about wearing a bathing suit to the beach, Miss Nevermind. Just...come as you are!"

Something that really sets her apart from the other characters and reinforces her genki mannerisms is her tendency to tap on the fourth wall. That line about having no time to space out/capitalize (I forget) her lines? Gold. Now, aside from just being funny jokes on their own, they once again justify how distanced Ibuki's behavior is from everyone else's and further give credence to her role, such as it is. It also serves to make players let down their guard for the final plot twist. After hours of Ibuki suggesting it's all a game, Monokuma's constant badgering of such at the end might seem bullshit...but it turns out he's totally right.

The cherry on top of all of this is that it turns out Ibuki does have an emotional core. Though she doesn't have much in the way of a backstory, besides her past with her J-pop band, playing to the end of her Island Mode route reveals a real sense of philosophical integrity. She does all that she does in the name of self-expression, and she believes everyone should take their own personhoods in the present rather than constantly run to try and find a "real them" that's a fallacy. "Even including your troubled self who worries about who you are, that is you." And although she's canonically bi, she mentions that any relationship she's looking for cannot be casual, she wants something incredibly tangible; she's prefer a platonic relationship to a romantic one in some respects. And you know what? There's real poetry in that.

Perhaps I truly do just see myself in her so much that I like her, including the surprise musical bent. I would be remiss if I did not mention the shocking swerve of the music Ibuki really performs. Honestly, I knew it wouldn't be pop, I thought it might be some variant of Black Flag hardcore punk. Uh, technical death metal a la Dir En Grey is one genre I probably should have seen coming. But hey, her concert is just another hilarious moment to add to her repertoire, and the song is pretty cool, although strangely repetitive for even two minutes.

Now here's where you expect me to say, "I wish she didn't die." Well, that's true, but not that simple. As soon as I took to her in the midst of Chapter 1, I knew she was too good for this sinful earth and she would not survive the story's entirety. A character this imminently likeable yet ultimately shallow was never going to be long for this world. The second she was revealed to have the Gullible Disease, I knew it was over. Quite why there was tension about it was beyond—hey, wait a minute, why didn't Mikan just tell Ibuki to jump off a cliff or something? Killing Ibuki should have been way less labyrinthe than she made it, jesus.

But even though I saw her murder coming a mile away, I was still shocked. Because I was so attached to her. It was still a brutally emotional moment. But isn't that the mark of a great story?

Exactly and beautifully said. I fully agree on the mark of the story. I also saw her death coming when the disease thing started up, and to be honest I really hoped it wouldn't happen. But the sadness I felt for her demise is exactly what shows she was a character worth caring about.

Damn, with Ibuki being pretty much my favorite character in the series, I was excited for this character discussion, but now I find myself with so little to add! Thank you for this amazing write-up - you've perfectly expressed why Ibuki is so wonderful without overlooking any of her flaws.

I don't really have much to add to your post, other than I think the reason why Mikan killed Ibuki herself instead of convincing her to commit suicide was because if Ibuki just went and offed herself, it wouldn't have made Mikan the blackened.

And she's technically ultimate despair at that point so... to spread despair I guess?

I was about to agree with you about the whole "should've just made her fall off the cliff", but remembering Mikan and her confessions and the assumption that she was talking about Junko, of course she'd play it out that way. D E S P A I R

Ibuki is one of the few characters who seems like she actually wants to hang out with the rest of the class, rather than just with a small circle of friends. She takes part in every group gathering that happens in the game (until her death that is), and never loses enthusiasm when she's around people.

Her talent for music didn't seem very appreciated, given her rather unusual taste. However, her real strength seems to be in teamwork. Her free time events involve "prepping" Hajime to join her music club, but they mostly end up running around playing games. Her sense of humor and funny faces also make her seem very lighthearted, and even when things get grim she's over the top enough to be amusing.

Her death is probably one of the most unfair in the game (possibly in either game, though AE might trump it with random-monokuma-jumping-off-the-elevator death), with Monokuma messing with the avatars of the students to make them do things they wouldn't otherwise. I doubt Mikan ever would have considered murdering anyone if she hadn't been despair-ified, and Ibuki probably wouldn't have been the target if her sickness hadn't made her so vulnerable.

Alongside with chiaki, Ibuki is not one of the characters that i get attached at. Is not like i hate her but more like, i don't find her interesting at all. Of course she is funny and probably the only danganronpa character that talk in a excentric way and in third person, but i somehow find that she lacks of information about herself and also, she didn't get too much development like Kuzuryuu, Sonia(Probably Akane too) and Hajime that have become strong characters after their loss.

I Believe she would shine more if she had some type of connection with any other character besides hajime like byakuya, mikan, mahiru etc(i don't think the twilight case in chapter 2 was enough) and more informations about her aswell would be good. Because of course, ibuki means to be a funny character, this can be proven by her reactions towards certain events but besides that, she doesn't have so much to offer.

I can't really add to all the great insight that has been previously provided, but I would like to share my experience with the Ultimate Musician.

She was probably one of two or three characters in Super Danganronpa 2 that I fell in love with. Her bubbly nature and energy made me instantly attach to her. While everyone else was being either a dick, or mopey, she was staying positive and bouncing off the walls. It was a great contrast between her and the other characters. Whoever designed her and drew her did a fantastic job capturing her spirit. The over exaggerated poses, the huge smiles, and even her hair appears to levitate by her energy. I spent most of my free time with Ibuki even though she eventually said the same things over and over again, due to my terrible gift giving, because her upbeat attitude and insight made her one of, if not my favorite character in the Danganronpa Universe. Just rereading her dialog with Hajime was a treat.

Oh man, Chapter 3. How I hate thee. As soon as Ibuki contracted the Despair Disease, I knew that she was in trouble, but when I saw that blue streak of hair flowing down her lifeless body as she lifelessly dangled above stage, I was devastated. Ibuki's murder was the the first and only murder that I reacted strongly to. I put my Vita to sleep. I cried a bit, and I couldn't play for a day or two because I had a hard time accepting her death.

First of all, I'm going to have to explain my view on characters in general. In any form of entertainment, be it a book, movie, game, whatever, the most important thing that it has to accomplish is to be entertaining. Otherwise there's really no point. The same goes for characters, as they are a part of that form of entertainment, their sole purpose is to entertain. In my opinion, there is nothing worse than a boring character. So it probably wouldn't surprise anyone that Ibuki is my favorite character in the entire series.

She's just loads of fun. From the very beginning, you can already tell that her main role in the story is to be the comic relief: constantly breaking the fourth wall (I am a sucker for fourth wall jokes), delivering some FANTASTIC lines ("Welcome to the world of girl love! It's slippery when wet!" and "For many years now... Ibuki has always dreamed of making a cookie statue of her boobs," and many more), and just being an eccentric and exciting character in general.

However, I don't think any of that takes away from her character or reduces her to some kind of cheap joke vending machine. She has had her moments of seriousness, like in her free time events where she's genuinely concerned about helping Hajime, or after the second trial where she expresses regret for not going with Mahiru. In fact, I don't think she's ever been openly hostile towards any of the other characters. Even with characters like Teruteru, Hiyoko, or even Nagito, the worst she's done to them was comment on their questionable behavior rather than actually berate them for it. This says a lot about her personality. Some may say it makes her a shallow character who is there just for the sake of being there, but I think it makes her a much needed character in an otherwise tense game of paranoia and distrust.

And this is why I found chapter 3 to be so shocking. First she has to go and get the despair disease, which completely strips her character of everything that made her, her, and is then immediately killed off in probably the most miserable looking death in the series. To see such an exciting and fun filled character suddenly stop being so fun and exciting, and then to discover her body in a hanged position (which is closely associated with suicide, the saddest way to go) is just... depressing. Strangely enough, that's also the reason why it makes her death one of my favorites, since it's a most fitting death in a game that emphasizes despair.

I dunno man, I just really love Ibuki

I never played through her free time events or paid much attention to her in the base game, and wow... reading these comments, looks like I missed a lot. Ibuki is a character with a lot of depth, even though she may look two-dimensional. A testament to Dangan Ronpa's love for its characters.

After reading previous posters comments, I've little to add except that I loved Ibuki too, both her and Chiaki I spent the entire game dreading the deaths of.

On an aside, would it be possible to have links to the previous character discussions in these posts? Or is there an updated list somewhere I'm not seeing? These posts are consistently some of the best content on this subreddit.

[S]There's no list as of now, but that's something I can do. I was planning on doing it and now there's a decent backlog of discussions to justify it.

I'll make a post and attach it to the next character discussion so it doesn't take up more space than the actual discussion itself.

She was one of the characters that I think deserved a longer development for. Like maybe replace Kazuichi as the colorful, loud character? But the game was pretty adamant in showing his perverse desires for Sonia till the end.

But then we wouldn't have minimaru...

She really would have been cool to keep around though, kind of like Ishimaru from DR1 (though seemingly less popular, given that some fans don't like her)

Less popular? I'm an Ishimaru fanboy but from what I've seen (and prev. polls) Ibuki is definitely more popular than Ishimaru and flat out just one of the most popular characters series wide.

It's easy for people to like Ibuki, a loud, supposed to be comedic relief character, and it takes something to actively pick out Ishimaru, a very disciplined person I would assume a lot people wouldn't relate to immediately as their favorite, although he does get development. His dedication to Mondo was something I respected him so much for. Before that he was just another discipline freak to me :/

If I recall correctly, nobody said they disliked Ishimaru when we had a discussion a few weeks back, but just on this page there are two people who said they never got into Ibuki's character.

That also, it was very convenient to keep him around for his Ultimate talent given how the game has the tech, next gen theme.

Character Discussion #16 - Hajime Hinata (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: N/A

Game: Goodbye Despair, Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Fanboy of Hope's Peak that enrolled in the Reserve Course then volunteered to be operated on by Hope's Peak to create artificial talent, becoming Izuru Kamukura

Part of the School Council Killing incident that lead to Reserve Course revolts, kickstart the Disaster Event

Falls to Despair and after Junko Enoshima's death and the capture of Ultimate Despair, inserts the AI Junko into the New World Program

Chooses to erase Avatar and stay on the island as Hajime Hinata at end of game

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate, Hajime Hinata!

Is the flair a giveaway? Yep, I'm on Team Hajime. I think he is the much better protagonist over Makoto. Mind you, a large part of this is simply because I really did not like Makoto, who was way too naïve for the environment he was stuck in and consistently failed to lend gravitas to proceedings. On the flipside, Hajime starts out as way, way more suspicious of his surroundings when everyone else bar Twogami seems to accept it, and the reason he doesn't accept it is because he has too many questions regarding how they got to the island, not just what they're there for. On top of that, he's mightily scared he can't remember his talent, and both give Hajime this realistic need to rationalise everything possible in an unreal situation, which if you ask me is much closer to what someone would actually do if they were trapped like that.

Yes yes, I'll concede that the whole "sequel has a more cynical main character" thing is not the most original idea, but Hajime's character is closer to the ideal offset that a DR protagonist should ideally provide, both in its humour and its drama. A lot of the comedy in DR is obviously derived from all the other students and how wacky they can be, and the juxtaposition between Hajime and the rest of his class especially serves to give the writers lots of material for comedy. Look at how stunned he is when Sonia talks about Novoselic's customs; his befuddlement at her casually misplacing Japanese customs in turn is the punchline. On the flipside, Makoto was weirdly unaware of some social customs himself, requiring Kyoko to step in at certain points. Sometimes, it was weird how tuned out he was, and it just didn't make him an effective anchor for the player at times.

Makoto also just wasn't that interesting a character on his own, and I think the big reason why is because he didn't have any conflict of his own besides wanting to leave the school (and a quick subplot regarding Kyoko), whereas Hajime, alongside the wider mystery, also has a long-standing personal goal of finding out what his Ultimate talent is. And when he finds out he doesn't have one, he's crushed, and the ribbing he receives from Nagito truly wounds him even though no one else cares. He says at the beginning of the game that he ascribes to be one of the ascendant students of Hope's Peak, in such high regard he holds the school, so he's hurt when he finds he doesn't really belong in the generally accepted sense of what the school is about.

He spends the entire game digging for an identity, unaware he's been forging one of his own through his actions and manner alone, as one should do, and his self-contrast with everyone around him is always a sore spot in his eyes. So when he discovers that he is Izuru in the real world, a reserve student experimented on and turned into an emotionless husk built for talent in the most general sense, further twisted by Junko into becoming an incarnation of despair, his ideals are shaken to the core, and of the remaining students, his resolve is tested the most. All this time hoping to be likened to the Hope's Peak student body he conceptually admires so much, and he simultaneously got his wish and yet couldn't be further from what he wanted to be. The mere presence of Izuru tests Hajime's sense of identity. Unlike the other students, if he loses his memory, he has absolutely nothing to go back to.

Honestly, I think that should have been the ending. Every student escapes the program with their memories of it intact...except Hajime, because Izuru's head has been toyed with too much. It would have reinforced the damage Hope's Peak did to one poor Reserve student in their pursuit of the absolute being, and it would have been a great dramatic twist. But I guess what we got is fine because it gives the Hajster his moment of reconciliation with everything that has happened. It is actually best he sees off the Future Foundation boat alone, because his existential crisis was the one that needed the sense of finality. If he made it out, then the other four should be extra fine.

All that is why Hajime is better than Makoto. His character arc has pathos, with a relateable struggle in his quest for identity and an outcome that requires his utmost strength to see through. His insecurity is one he carries through the entire game, and the only people who truly aid him are Nanami and Ibuki, and the latter only in her FTEs at that, and this only increases the empathy the player has for him. It's a good character arc for a protagonist, and the rest of his character is easy enough for players to project onto because he spends much of his dialogue asking questions and making the obvious reactions to the setting and people around him.

Even in canon Hajime is more popular than Makoto. It's not too surprising, Hajime actually agrees with his classmates once in awhile, while Makoto spends the entire game yelling at them during trials every time they make an incorrect statement... But the full discussion of that can wait until Makoto's day...

And Hajime has more... ships sailing than Makoto, at least 5 if you've done the right free time events (Chiaki, Nagito, Sonia, Mahiru, and Mikan), while Makoto has about 4 romances that are even loosely supported by the canon (Kirigiri, Asahina, Mukuro and Maizono), 2 of whom die before chapter 2 and one of whom we don't even get to talk to out of her disguise...

[S]Hajime's getting it on with the dudes as well, following his Dangan Island endings (pretending the romantic ones don't overlap) he's still completely tied up! Fuyuhiko's mob, Nekomaru's trainee, Gundham's slave/manservant/sacrifice/housekeeper/friend, the list goes on and on for him.

Dude needs to learn when to stop making promises!

You also forgot about Ibuki. She acted differently towards Hajime, then anyone else on the island. (Even though Dangan Island is not canon at all) she even say she always had a crush on him.

I'm on Team Hajme as opposed to Makoto for the fact that he's has a "are you serious?"/"this fucking guy." Also, this sprite is just the best sprite in the game. It just embodies "Dude... You're seriously going to argue that?"

[S]Count me in the camp that likes Hajime more than Makoto, his more impactful role in the story and background involving Izuru Kamukura made him immensely more interesting to me, and how he bounces off the more eccentric cast of Goodbye Despair with a "this stuff again" attitude is hilarious.

I've heard there's more pronounced differences between Makoto and Hajime in the Japanese versions too, but I think even without Hajime and Makoto feel distinctively different when playing as them.

There're so many silly fan videos in the DR fanbase, but I can't choose between Don't Stop Hinata Now and a comedic take on the Boat Scene.

I need more boat lover Izuru in my life.

The boat thing is still one of the best jokes to come from Hajime.

I still stand that he's the SHSL Propane Salesman. He's actually Hank Hill. It all makes sense...

Hajime is skeptical and a bit of a stick in the mud early on? Initials HH? He says BWHAAAA!? Just like Hank Hill? Gundham asks for Hajime's "true name," and Akane calls him Hank when she can't remember his name? HANK.
Hanku Hinata is officially a thing.

If you want to make Izuru seem silly, just imagine him using some of the less utilitarian skills, like Ultimate Traditional dancer...

Or, since the new trailer came out, Ultimate Housemaid.

Very solid protagonist in my opinion, not just by danganronpa standards but by anything standards. Twists with his character are cool, design is one of the most plausible and basic in the series which is something most people probably don't like, but I happen to prefer the practicality of, minus the nonsensical animoo hair. He's one of the better written characters in the franchise I feel like too; although a strongsuit of 1 & 2 is to have characters play off each other and create pretty realistic interactions, I can't help but stop and think every so often that, grammatical errors aside, some of the characters speak a little one-dimensionally, moreso in 2. Hajime never suffered from this problem to me.

Also, minor complaint that doesn't have to do too much with the character of Hajime Hinata, but it kind of gets mixed in there for me: as much as voice-actor-arguement-land is the worst possible place to be, I was pretty shaken up to hear Adachi coming out of a somewhat goodie-two-shoes high school boy. Johnny Yong Bosch did a solid job regardless of that, and I think the problem there was more in direction, there were a couple times with the localization where I noticed the va's probably didn't have the right context for the lines they were saying, and it made things sound a bit weird...

I actually could not shake the feeling of Hajime being evil for this reason and this reason alone, and not in like, the way things actually turned out with his character twists, but moreso him just being Nagito 2.0 in secret. A lot of his more character defining lines just sound really antagonistic to me.

But yeah, vocal dissonance aside, cool protagonist, smart and well written protagonist, best dangan white shirt wearer yet??

Man that is hilarious :D I've already seen JYB in lots of different roles, from anime to games, but I can see how hearing Adachi's voice for everything would make you suspicious LOL

Hajime alone is an extremely strong protagonist for those reasons you stated. He's basic and relatable, but also has a very powerful character arc that is very easy to empathize with. He has obvious flaws (hello insecurity and cynicism), but he ultimately finds himself as a determined and compassionate leader.

[S]Unrelated but another Sakura flair! One of us one of us!

Though I don't think I ever particularly got an evil vibe from Hajime, I don't really follow / recognize particular voice actors either.

Yea, just finished the series pretty much and fumbled my way over here, Sakura is of course the best so

But yeah, I can understand completely if people don't get that, even people familiar with P4, but just... I could not shake the feeling that half of his lines were gonna lead to him Mikan-ing out the window or something, 'freaked me out dude.

The second time I played the game, I used the eng dub and ... I was also trying to complete my max social link run (which failed miserably ... only two Death ranks left ...), so hearing Adachi's voice while Hajime was talking was pretty ... interesting x)

I think I found Hinata more realistic and deeper than Makoto, but I enjoyed watching Makoto more and his achievements moreso. I found Makoto a more unrelenting good, which I prefer even if its a more standard character. One more issue imo is that I feel Komaeda and Chiaki overshadow Hinata more than Kirigiri and Togami overshadow Naegi.

Funny, this is the first time I've heard people say Komaeda and Chiaki overshadow Hinata more than Kirigiri and Togami overshadow Naegi. What I heard is usually the other way around. Just curious, are you refering to popularity rankings? Because that I definitely would agree. But I think Naegi would be more interesting in the DR3 future anime, after he gets greater development than he ever has before.

Welll I also think Chiaki and Nagito are more capable during trials than Hinata. In contrast, while Kirigiri was better than Naegi, Byakuya wasnt that good and thus Naegi shined a bit more imo.

Huh. I didn't notice that. Maybe I was too focused on Kirigiri's awesome deduction skill. I always thought that while Komaeda was smart, he didn't really wanna help Hinata (cuz you must overcome despair and build hope hajime!) and in some cases even mislead Hinata. While Togami was misleading too, he was less convincing, and Kirigiri would have shot his fake accusation through the roof near the end of the trial anyways.

And yes, I do agree that Chiaki is more competent than Hinata. So I guess Hinata and Naegi aren't really that much different in intelligence at all.

So in conclusion, I thought: Komaeda & Kirigiri = smart, but Komaeda does lie for the sake of HOPE and mislead, while Kirigiri already figure out the case and would have said the answer, had not she feel the need to let Naegi figure it out himself. Or at least she gave me that impression. That is what happens when you work with the ultimate detective. Not that it matter because both Hinata and Naegi has their own fair share of facepalm moments anyways :p

Hmm, for Komaeda, I agree hes misleading! But imo its highly impressive how he knows the culprit before the trial begins in at least 2 cases and was able to lead the others on. I thought it really showed how much more capable he was.

But i think i mostly agree with you.

Yup popularity

I feel really mixed about Hajime. All things considered, I think he's an alright character, but I feel he's given way too much credit by the fanbase. Don't get me wrong, I like Hajime…in chapter 6. I still had to go through several chapters of really not liking a lot of the way he acts to get to that point, however. I'm someone who prefers Makoto overall, so it's not even so much that I dislike Hajime (okay, it is…) and more that I get tired of people misrepresenting parts about Makoto when they prop up Hajime, who I feel was given more credit for the dilemma of chapter 6 more than who he is in general.

Now first off, yes, they definitely do more with Hajime's character than they did with Makoto. Makoto was set up mostly to be a funnel for the character, a pretty agreeable guy, and the poster boy of the "good" side in the classic good vs evil setup. Hajime on the other hand is deliberately set up more to be a neutral party in order to make the last chapter more effective since you've got the future foundation and ultimate despair pulling you two different ways, all to subvert the hope/despair dichotomy and take a third choice. When they show nearly every faction involved in the conflict to be a bit on the gray side, they want Hajime to be at the center it all and to show the player being pulled in several different directions and expected to make a difficult choice.

I'm not gonna dwell too much on the aspect of Hajime selling his soul to the Hope's Peak Devils, because we already know it's great.

There might be more done with Hajime over Makoto, but that alone doesn't mean I'm going to automatically like him more. Nagito is unquestionably one of the most important and invested characters in DR 2, but it doesn't mean you're automatically going to like him or think he's well written compared to a character like say, Nekomaru just because there's less being done with the character. So while I agree more is done with Hajime's character, I simply prefer the overall personality and presence of Makoto over Hajime and don't consider "they do more with him" a fair argument in favor of Hajime.

I mentioned that I like Hajime in chapter 6. They don't really do anything with him in the first half of the game. They drop the fact that he's talentless in the second half of chapter 4 which he reacts poorly to. We see a bit more moping in chapter 5, but it gets abandoned fairly quickly once Nagito gets fully replaced by the spirit of the millennium ring carries out his plan.

Chapter 6 is where it comes into full focus. Now, I have no problem with them not doing much with the character since survivors have to have their arcs spread out over a longer period of time. That's the deal with Kyoko too. What I don't like is more that I really had a lot of portions where Hajime really just says and does things that really made me dislike him to the point where I didn't really care about what he was dealing with when it was his time to shine.

Here are a few examples:

Chapter 1's investigation has Hajime respond to Nagito thinking with "well, it's not like I really care" in response to Nagito's thoughts.

Chapter 2's investigation has a scene where Sonia explains that the mask is a common element suggesting there could be a Serial Killer involved in the murder. Hajime's response? "This is stupid...Serial Killer, my ass...The killer just used it to cover their face." Keep in mind he doesn't think this, he says it outright.

There's the entirety of Trial 3 after revealing the culprit where he gets surprised that everyone is ganging up on him and not believing it's Mikan when he bluntly and tactlessly just says she's the killer repeatedly and goes on with his "is that really possible" angle.

You've got things he says in several of the free time events, but I think the winner is Kazuichi's free time events after Kazuichi brought up something about his appearance. "If you overcome your motion sickness, I can totally imagine you riding a motorcycle with a girl...You'd probably hang out with a bunch of delinquents and get into all kinds of trouble, too."

The Izuru angle was a good one, don't get me wrong…it's just that for me, you jump through so many obstacles of Hajime being a complete dick at times that it really detracted it for me. I wouldn't call that cynical either.

One thing I will say I liked is that in the prologue of the game, Hajime was set up to be very panicky to establish what a good leader the ultimate impostor was. Hajime suggests a bunch of things to escape the island and says there's no reason to follow Monomi's rules, but the ultimate impostor shot them down, showing he not only has been thinking of how to escape, but can accurately see down the road what problems could arise. More on that in the UI's profile though. They hint at the idea that Hajime is not one able to make tough choices. He panics more than anyone in the beginning. He's the one who makes a conscious choice to decide to starve to death in the funhouse, and so on. It all leads up to "I can't choose" in chapter 6.

But in general, to me, Hajime just feels like a character that wasn't intended to be in DR 2 and got stuck in the game after the draft was finished so the player could have fun. I can understand that there's not going to be much on his character in every chapter given that he's someone who survives, but the game dominates the presence of Nagito so much that you're thinking why aren't you playing as him? Chapter 4's trial is a prime example. Nagito pretty much carries the team, which makes sense in that context, but Hajime just copies pretty much everything he says and doesn't really need to be in that trial. He even says it like he's the one deducing things, but really, he's just copying Nagito.

This is different from the Kyoko/Makoto teamup we had. Comparing trial 4 of the first game, Makoto is the one driving the discussion while Kyoko is just doing more fact checking and she jumps in every now and then based on what others are saying.

Nagito's based off the protagonist of the last game obviously, but Hajime's Izuru arc felt like it was added in so Hajime would have a deeper investment, but could have just as easily been thrown in with someone else. When you combine it with the fact that his arc doesn't really take off until late in chapter 4, there are just very large gaps of the game where it seems like Hajime's presence seems a bit forced since they're trying to do the seeing the older protagonist from the third person perspective angle. I'm not saying I love Makoto nor do I think he's the best character in the series, but I never really considered Hajime an improvement.

With Makoto, there is a clearly defined struggle of optimism in the face of disaster and handling trust that's set up from the beginning of the game and hitting the climax when everyone votes Makoto the killer in chapter 5, but more on that in Makoto's thingy. Hell, I never even considered him incredibly naive, to be honest. With Hajime, he seems like he's getting pushed out as the protagonist at times and then gets an arc more than halfway through the game that even then doesn't get much focus until the last chapter, so he just seems to be in an awkward position.

Lastly, it's not too important, but because I know the "Hajime doesn't rely on others like Makoto" thing is coming up, I wanna point a few things out:

Chapter 1: Hajime is helped and led along by Nagito, who outright explains what a lot of the evidence implies. I cover in Nagito's FTEs that he's acting as a moderator and wants to be sure both sides, the killer and everyone else, have fair odds.

Chapter 2: Chiaki assists him through the game and Nagito brings Hajime a bunch of evidence with the girls, footprints, and gummies.

Chapter 3: In this trial, Nagito helps him along whenever Hajime gets stuck. The clue where Nagito intentionally brings up the statement "Ibuki didn't commit suicide" again to tip Hajime off about the footprints is his biggest point.

Chapter 4: Hajime copies Nagito word for word and just repeats what he says a few times in this trial. Even Nagito's closing argument matches the same.

Oh, and "Hajime doesn't take people's shit! He's not like Makoto, who even hung out with a serial killer and let people insult him!" Take another look at Hiyoko and Akane's free time events please.

I don't hate Hajime, but his role as being revealed as the mastermind and Izuru Kamukura didn't really set him leaps and bounds above Makoto for me.

Glad to see the Hajime train is running full steam today...Will this bring me true hope? Or bitter despair?

[S]It's a shame you're the most controversial comment for (from what I can tell) having a dissenting opinion despite stellar presentation and even videos of it. I don't even remember Hajime's serial killer remark in Chapter 2 and might've thought you were paraphrasing, so of course I immediately had to watch it and go "Huh, he actually said that?"

I don't necessarily agree with Hajime not being intended for the game from the start though, I think his character was meant to be the biggest example of hope perverted by Junko and it showed a darker side of Hope's Peak and the other side of the coin with the people's fascination for Hope's Peak. I'll admit his personal story was oddly paced and could've had more impact at certain points (there was a scene early on iirc of Haijme's memory in a classroom that basically spells out the plot point, then Nagito just up and said it later on) but the pay off was certainly worth it in my eyes.

I also never once wondered why I wasn't playing as Nagito, just because he was intelligent and a driving force behind the trials, he was also clearly meant to be the antagonistic character within the group. Though Nagito having Free Time Events with everyone is some food for thought...

But now I can't get the image of Nagito dragging everyone across some imaginary finish line, screaming "gdi guys at least live long enough so I can screw you all over one last time." Nagito Ch 4 MVP.

I see your point, yeah.

I don't actually think he was unintended, it's just, like you said, it's very oddly paced at times. The game didn't seem to know what it wanted to do with him until around chapter 4 when Hajime's main arc really takes off. It really felt like he was just Nagito's messenger boy at times since Nagito is doing a lot of the legwork, both from the narrative and in the trials. Trial 3 and 4 is really where I feel it, but it's fine elsewhere. Hajime feels less like the protagonist and more like a conduit that just happens to exist. With Makoto, like him or not, he had a clearly defined position within the group, but Hajime's had strange pacing at time, despite the fact that they undoubtedly do more.

Fuyuhiko was always a dissenter of the class trials, so we can just pretend this is trial 5 and I'm Fuyuhiko, which means one of you guys is Hajime and can be my bro, yeah?

It also means one of us has giant boobs and front tail ideas

I can't say much about his place in the narrative, but Makoto was sort of the mouthpiece for Kirigiri and Byakuya for the early part of the first game...

They had distinct roles though. Trial 4 of DR 2 had moments where Hajime clashes with everything else, like a point where he specifically says that he proves the existence of a secret passage...even though it was nagito who did that. They even follow it up with Nagito elaborating and Hajime just repeats what he says word for word before going into the rebuttal showdown. With Kyoko, she has her own distinct role and will either present evidence to corroborate Makoto's point, or bring up some larger point of discussion. Makoto is the one steering in trial 4, but Kyoko is fact checking and notes "we still haven't figured out the locked room yet."

They do use makoto as a mouthpiece at times, but his role is still at least separate from the others. Trial 3 and 4 of DR 2 seemed like they didn't know what they wanted to do with Hajime at times.

[S]I can see what you mean, though Nagito was placed in a weird limbo for Ch 2 and 3 as well, being tied up and sick.

As you say, baby gangsta

This is a really well worded and solid stance, so I feel a bit nervous in asking maybe a bit of a pointless or dumb question, but regardless...

'Question about Hajime being a twat at times: is his character less annoying to you personally if you think that's an in-character attitude for him to have? I understand why in relation to the other D2 island pals, this logic doesn't make a crazy amount of sense, but if Haj-boy was Izuru before the events of D2, to me it kinda makes sense that he was a little dickish and unlikable at times. That could well just be biasing though too, so, interested to know your thoughts!

No dumb questions here. Not to worry.

If that happened, it'd depend on how they carry it out. I can handle characters that are meant to be rude whether they change or not, but there has to be a purpose behind it. For example, Hiyoko is undoubtedly a bully, but her entire character is explaining a dynamic behind bullying not always explored--that it's possible and common to both be a bully and be bullied by someone.

In Hajime's case, it came off more to me as them trying to make him look cynical and whatnot, but it came off poorly at times.

As much as I like Hajime, I do agree with you. He crosses the line between "cynical", "sassy" and "downright rude" too easily at times.

Yeah, I'm on Team Hajime, and my reasoning for that doesn't really extend beyond "he's more cynical and snarkier than Makoto, and I like those kinds of characters." But what are you gonna do, you like what you like. I also think the whole twist with his character in the 6th chapter is brilliant, but even if it didn't happen I'd still prefer Hajime over Makoto healsohasmorememes

Lemme just slide this here...

Someone help

we should just rename him to Hajimeme

Thank you for showing this to me.

This probably won't be long, and it should be long because Hajime is my favourite character in the series. Anyway, here we go!

Firstly, I do like Hajime more than Makoto. Well, I don't dislike Makoto, he's really nice but Hajime seems a lot more real to me, as a person. I can't say I would share his attitude if I was in the same situation as him, but I do think it was good that he was suspicious of...well...almost everything. He has so many questions and that makes him able to be realistic in that situation, which seems so much more real than Makoto's naive attitude.

Hajime was trying to find his talent throughout the whole game and contantly feared that he was the traitor, who may have forgotten their talent ant the fact that they were the taitor. Every time a new island opened up, he desperately tried to find some sort of hint of his talent, finding nothing until the fourth chapter, when Nagito tild him he was just a regular dude(personally, I think that scene could have been more powerful). Afterwards, he really didn't deserve the treatment Nagito gave him. No one did. Hajime had been crushed but people still saw him as a friend, even with his lack of talent, but he still feels down. How could he not be sad? He admired Hope's Peak Academy, a school for talent and he attended it, being just some reserve course student.

For me I felt, so, so, so sorry for Hajime in the fifth and sixth trial. We saw him as he'd never been before, in the fifth trial, sad to an extreme (for his character), and in the sixth trial, distressed to a really big extreme(Hajime screaming is my jam).

/u/Lowlander_2
's last three paragraphs have the same opinions as mine, so I'll just leave this here.

Edit: I know that Hajime isn't perfect and he can be pretty mean at times but I still regard him better than Makoto and my favourite character in the series.

btw it's not like I like Hajime's English voice actor or anything, or that I think Hajime is adorable...

I find Hajime to be an interesting change. The minigames are a little harder for DR2, which I assume is Hajime struggling more to solve the mysteries than Makoto. Island mode makes his cynicism and suspicion seem weirder than the actual story, with he and Nagito almost insisting that someone get murdered despite the insistence of Usami that they shouldn't.

Hajime also gets more help from the rest of the cast. While Makoto usually got vague hints from Kirigiri and Byakuya (or was flat out mislead in the case of Genocider), Hajime takes cues from all of his classmates to push through the trials with Nagito and Chiaki being the hint givers.

Hajime also seems more in tune with what his classmates want, partially due to the simulation no doubt, but the hope fragment system means he knows how much time he has to spend with someone to get to know them, while Makoto has to roll the dice on whether he'll learn something from the person he hangs out with or just end up empty handed.

His lacking a skill, much like Nagito's getting in by luck, seems like a highlight of Hope's peak's weakness in their search for talent. He's obviously determined, and in Ibuki and Nekomaru's freetime events, shows that he could become a remarkably skilled person with help, and already has some talent with people, but the only reason he's there to begin with is because Hope's peak was desperate for cash...

[S]I take it just that he has the determination and he's rather skilled, but he isn't Ultimate level, nor does he have any real specialization. Of course, with Hope's Peak seemingly having a talent for near everything I'm sure you could eventually find some obscure talent to be an Ultimate in, but I think Hope's Peak weakness was opening the reserve course and then ostracizing them.

Lets be frank here. Hope's Peak's problems runs deeper than the reserve course. Hope's Peak's problem is its entire existence.

Hope's Peak's endgame is to eventually build the ultimate society by finding, nurturing and even creating all these ultimate talent. But perhaps humanity isn't meant to be perfect in their universe. Just look at what happened to Hajime Hinata, an ordinary man who was pushed too close to perfection and went mad as a result.

In their pursuit of perfection, they've missed out on imperfect, but still clearly talented people like Nagito Komaeda. They've fallen for conmen like Yasuhiro Hagakure when they tried to pursue perfection in abstract concepts (and hiro still turned out to be capable of a lot of good for humanity, even if none of it has anything to do with his "ultimate talent"). They've created a monster out of an originally-normal man like Hajime Hinata.

It is of my belief that the anime may touch on this train of thought, given how common this story cliche is in stories.

Oh, how I love Hinata!! He's one of my favourite Danganronpa character :3 I just like the fact that he's so straightforward and he won't stand for your bullshit, but he can still be one of the kindest soul in game. For one, he actually tries to understand Komaeda despite him being downright unpredictable and capricious, while others have already taken to ignore Komaeda althogether. Another thing is that he is so relatable, and is one of the, if not the most normal one of them all, although this can make he most boring in comparision to other characters at times. His struggles are something most of us have gone through before too: not being good enough, always having to live in people expectation, having not hope for yourself and a lack of confidence.

In comparision to Naegi, well, I never really thought much about Naegi, mainly because sometimes it seems as if Togami and Kirigiri have to push him too much at times. Hinata, however would sometimes question a case himself without Chiaki or Komaeda, even though I agree that he definitely wouldn't be able to solve a case by himself. The thing is, Naegi can be such a pushover at times. Call him nice, but, Hinata is nice too, but I don't see him dealing with the shit Komaeda (Togami for Naegi) put him through sometimes. Oh well, the new DR3 is coming. Maybe all Naegi needs is more development. I do have a feeling Naegi will be super mature and badass in the upcoming series :D

That being said, Hinata is by not means a super well-written character, but he's definitely up there. He's nice, he's sassy and he's straightfoward. He is also a breath of fresh air from the typical whiny, weak but nice and polite or the badass, cocky and OP protagonist of Japan, that's for sure. Because of that, I don't think his character appeals to the Japanese, since they all prefer male protags that more soft and polite or crazed but hilarious or badass and cool type of guys, because it seems to me that more people like him more in the non-Japan fanbase. I'm not sure about that tho.

This is my own opinion only, no need to take it seriously. :)

Oh, I never made that connection! That explains why he has Shirokuma and Kurokuma (and, by extension, their AI chips) at the end of DR:AE.

The one thing that I love about Hajime is that while he is such a sweetheart to his classmates, he doesn't take any bullshit. He was kind of close to Nagito until he realized that he was super cray, and then he refused to touch Nagito's crazy.

I like Makoto more just cause Makoto reminds me too much of myself: overly kind, honestly kinda boring and uninteresting, etc. Idk, I like how "boring" Naegi is, since its really relatable when compared to the other Ultimates, which I like. Hajime is great too tho.

I love Hajime simply because of his Free Time events, and because he has a really nice ass (love the epilogue art, btw). No, of course it's much more deeper than that, but everyone already said everything :)

Hajime was also less "Bland Main Charactery". He was very sarcastic, and seemed to like talking crap in his head about majority of the characters. To be fair, hes a really dark character if you stop and think about it. The personality we see is just a shell of what he actually is.

I don't dislike Hinata Hajime, but I must say that I really don't endear to him either. Many times in the game I found him quite rude and dickish, and to be honest, he's someone I'd never ever want to be friends with if I met him irl. He's got his good points and bad points as a very normal person, but he's certainly not endearing at all.

Character Discussion #17 - Peko Pekoyama (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Swordswoman

Game: Goodbye Despair

Status: Comatose

Notable Roles:

Is Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu's bodyguard, which is kept under wraps until the end of Chapter 2

Guarded the confiscated items in Chapter 1 in the office

Kills Mahiru Koizumi during Fuyuhiko's confrontation to her regarding his younger sister in Chapter 2

Pretends to be a Serial Killer 'Sparkling Justice' to throw the students off

Fuyuhiko interrupts her execution which results in her cutting one of his eyes

Speculated amongst students that her last act was to protect Fuyuhiko from the blades during execution to keep him alive

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Swordswoman, Peko Pekoyama!

Oh boy, a character not quite as controversial as not liking Hajime!

You know that character that ends up being most like you? Even if they don't turn out to be your favorite character, or even the most memorable, there's still just that "holy crap, that got to me" factor. That's what Peko did for me. She and Fuyuhiko were probably two of the characters I related most to, and aside from the starvation motive, Peko also had a motive I felt would drive me to kill also. The relationship with my best friend I relate it to isn't romantic, but he's still the Fuyuhiko to my Peko in the sense that Peko was willing to go to unhealthy extremes to establish her feelings.

What's the deal then? I think it's interesting that Peko, despite how differently the game presents her from Toko, still shares the same base traits—a deep affection for someone else in the group and a major inferiority complex. The game kinda presents Peko as cool, confident, and rational though. In the first two trials she's in, she says things "logical fallacy" during rebuttal showdown to further extend on that, but it's interesting how her FTEs present her as someone who's very emotional, but not very expressive.

A very interesting point is that Fuyuhiko (at the end of his FTEs) and Peko (in the island mode ending) both tell Hajime that he is their first friend, which also speaks about the relationship between Peko and Fuyuhiko. They call each other childhood friends, Peko says she wants to ask Fuyuhiko out on a date, which would suggest they haven't before, meaning they're really close childhood friends and care very deeply for each other and rely on other, but they never really branch out and socialize with others. It makes perfect sense, given that they're part of the mob, so you're not exactly going to talk with lots of people outside that very tight-knit circle.

Fuyuhiko mentions in his own FTEs that he lived in a very violent household. If someone in the very tight-knit part of the family is getting abused by that and nearly killed from just his parents fighting with each other, imagine having to be the girl that got dumped on the doorstep. They never explicitly say what exactly it is Peko had to go through, but if Fuyuhiko's words indicate anything, it wasn't fun.

The result is that Fuyuhiko and Peko really only have each other to brave themselves through. Fuyuhiko has his own share of insecurities, but at no point does he buy what his family is imposing on Peko—she's no tool to him, if his words and actions in trial 2 are any indication. Peko is presented as a very blunt, tersely speaking person incapable of even smiling properly. They do genuinely care for each other, but it's a pair of people each saddled with their own demons to face having been raised in such an unhealthy environment.

Peko in particular is essentially Sakura in that without a circle of people she genuinely cares about, she ends up as nothing more than a machine to carry out orders, which is part of what drives her (more on that in Sakura's thingy).

Peko cares about Fuyuhiko obviously, but their living situation puts their relationship in an awkward position, as Peko's been warped to the point of seeing herself as beneath Fuyuhiko. There's a quick bit of Peko lovin' in chapter 5 if you talk to Fuyuhiko in the restaurant at one point. He'll be alone looking at Mahiru's photos and note that the one he found of him and Peko was the only one where they looked like equals. He was also crying, apparently. Peko's deal is basically, "I care very much about you, but we are not equals though."

She doesn't seem to actually buy the whole "I'm a tool" thing herself, but it's more that she's fighting against her insecurity and whatnot the same way Fuyuhiko does. Fuyuhiko in chapter 1 is shown to have an established set of traits, but then more and more you start to see bits and pieces crack through that show there's more than the game is letting on. I love the foreshadowing they do in the first chapter and the first trial. In nearly every scene, Peko is the one to inform Fuyuhiko about things. In the first trial, Fuyuhiko, who has continually said that he doesn't give a shit about the trial or the others, and is even willing to kill them, first jumps in the trial to defend Peko when the suspicion has fallen on her. Even more strange is when Peko says she feels bad she couldn't have stopped the blackout and potentially saved Byakuya…Fuyuhiko, who had a perfect opportunity to condescend to the group again about how relying on each other is for weaklings and how Byakuya got what he deserved, instead responds to Peko a bit differently:

Sounds like you don't need to blame yourself.

Most players are likely focused on the trial and just trying to figure out who the killer is (I absolutely hope they keep on doing foreshadowing like this in trials), so they wouldn't likely notice how incredibly strange that line really sounds given who's saying it.

So Peko sees herself as an inferior, mostly fueled out of her own insecurity, but she uses her relationship with Fuyuhiko to prop him up on a pedestal even if he doesn't see her as an inferior. It's not as simple as Fuyuhiko being kind to her—he is kind—but that only feeds her insecurity more because it makes her feel that he's even more deserving. That's expressed quite clearly in chapter 2 after she killed in the flashback scene. Fuyuhiko is absolutely concerned about her and she ignores her orders in the name of protecting him (in her words).

It all comes to a climax surprisingly early. I didn't really guess that she was going to die incredibly early. If I did her FTEs, I probably would have, since she references lots of characters, but I was busy with Mikan at the time. :P

Peko could have just…not killed Mahiru, stopped Fuyuhiko, and the two left, but she sees herself as an inferior. She also wants to protect Fuyuhiko, both out of genuine love for him and because her seeing herself as Fuyuhiko's protector is where she draws her self-worth from. (She even asks him to call her as much as she's about to die) You know how you get a little rush out of helping people, and how some can get addicted to that to the point of being reliant on it? Peko takes that to the extreme with regards to Fuyuhiko. It's why she takes control during the trial to guide things in her way. As Monokuma noted, she's the only one in the series to date to attempt arguing she's the murder weapon and pass her "blackened" reward to someone else. Her mindset arguably makes her one of the most dangerous students in the series. She's pretty calm, athletic and hard to kill, and she's completely willing to value another student's life over her own. So many pieces of evidence in danganronpa relies on the "no accomplices" assumption only because you assume everyone values their life enough to not lie about that if they die too. But if it involves Fuyuhiko, Peko is completely willing to go that far.

Hell, she's even the only rebuttal showdown opponent where the killer jumps in against you before the reveal. Granted, it's right before the reveal, but it still happens. Trial 2 happens, everyone has their feels crushed, and Peko is told quite clearly by Fuyuhiko that she's no tool to him, that he just wanted to be with her, and going off the obvious fact that he was pushing so hard to misdirect the trial, he's completely willing to protect her as well. Chapter 2 is really just two people from crappy backgrounds that still only had each other doing everything they can to protect each other, because only one of them can die in this situation. Hell, Fuyuhiko still stands as the only person who tried to stop an execution in the main games (I don't count that thing with Genocider/Toko saving gentle girl in chapter 3 of the spinoff) and even in that situation, Peko dies while hugging Fuyuhiko. She can die protecting him and she can die embracing him as well. I really like the departure from the hope/despair dichotomy with the killers in DR 2. :P

Her own execution has that feel as well. She's being controlled up until the point where she accidentally cuts Fuyuhiko. That's the only action done of her own free will. As much as she wants to be that tool and serve him, she got stuck with her last moments knowing her acting outside that is what hurt him. But still, chapter 3 implies that she died protecting him while she herself was being killed rather brutally.

We can see the last bit of confirmation in Peko's island mode ending.

Until now, I've always thought of myself as a mere tool. And as long as I remained his tool, I thought that was good enough. But now I want to reach the same goals that he's aiming for. I want to try seeing the same sights as him. Not as a mere tool…but a fellow warrior.

We see at last that be it through killing Mahiru (which she herself admits was senseless) or through island mode, all she really wanted was to stand at Fuyuhiko's side, but overcoming issues from your background isn't as simple as just having someone who cares about you.

On a side note, I absolutely love the whole thing they do with Hajime crushing on Peko and being crushed completely and the way it opens with Peko's "Yes."

The one time Hinata doesn't get the girl, RIP couldn't complete the tropical harem.

Also still eternally salty Shingetsu (Blue spiked hair boy) couldn't be saved either Fukawa why

What about Ibuki though? She straight up says denied when he says they're lovers in her ending. :P

But you still end up with Ibuki - it's just under the term 'band members' instead of 'lovers.' For Ibuki, being band members is likely an even stronger relationship, and means having fun and being together until the end of time. I've always considered what she wants to be its own form of love - perhaps one that leans more towards the platonic than the romantic side, but is strong and meaningful nonetheless.

I'm not denying it's a strong relationship, but to me "get the girl" implies something romantic, hence why he didn't get with Peko. He still has a strong bond with her at the end, but certainly not romantic. I thought the same of Ibuki anyway, who flat out denies him, and I got the impression that Ibuki was only into women anyway.

There's an option for "lovers" in addition, and she explicitly denies it, so I don't really see anything romantic between Ibuki and Hajime. If "end up with" includes platonic, then there's no point in saying he doesn't get Peko because he gets pretty much everyone in the game in that sense.

I'm pretty sure everyone here is going to talk about Peko's relationship with Fuyuhiko (not that I have a problem with it, it's pretty much the highlight of her character), so instead of beating that dead horse, I'm going to talk about something else that fascinated me about her.

Peko is basically a foil to Toko. There are the obvious similarities like they both have braids, glasses, wear a sailor fuku, and care a lot for the rich blond asshole. Then there's the differences, which I find really interesting:

Toko (primarily) has an intellectual talent, while Peko has an athletic talent

Toko tends to overreact to things while Peko is consistently unemotional up until the second trial

Toko has been rejected by every boy she's fallen in love with, while Peko has an unwavering loyalty towards one boy who returns those feelings

Toko has killed the men she's fallen in love with, while Peko has killed for the person she cares for

Toko wants a deeper relationship with Byakuya but is only ever used as a tool, while Peko mostly thinks of herself as a tool for Fuyuhiko but he sees her as something more

Toko is actually a serial killer but isn't the culprit in chapter 2, while Peko is the culprit in chapter 2 of her game but isn't actually a serial killer

And of course Toko survives the endgame while Peko is executed

(yeah I stole this from tv tropes but it's interesting and no one else has talked about it. Sue me.)

Also, am I the only person who finds her character to be... kind of cutesy? There's the whole thing with the obsession with fluffy animals, the fact that she's kind of a parody of sailor moon, her funny sounding name, and, well, I really can't take her that seriously after the whole bathroom thing in the first chapter. She's adorable :3

[S]Her name is hilarious. If someone had just called her Peko Peko on the island as a nickname (Ibuki would be my candidate), I'd die and go to heaven. I think it has some additional meaning in Japanese but it's still really silly feeling to me, especially for someone of her talent and looks.

Also, I like to think of her / Fuyuhiko plus Akane / Nekomaru as platonic BFF for life, even though they tend to get real shippy real fast, and Dangan Island sorta throws a wrench in it. Seeing Fuyuhiko and Peko's shared tree climbing story is the most adorable thing in the world though.

Okay, so you know that badger song?

BadgerBadgerBadgerBadgerBadgerBadgerBadgerBadgerBadgerBadger?

I wanted to make a thing with chibi Peko hitting chibi Mahiru with a bat to the beat of that song and instead have:

Peko Peko Peko Peko Peko Peko Peko Peko Peko Peko

FU-YU-HI-KO

...

I didn't know how much I needed this until nowwhy isn't this a thing

ibuki does call her that. https://youtu.be/aOnl9-LGht4?t=410

[S]Life is complete, can die happy.

Alright, I waited centuries for this. Let's go.

I honestly hated Peko Pekoyama th first time I saw her in the trailer. I wasn't fond of her gray hair at all and her overall black outfit seemed bland. I did notice however that her and Kuzuryuu had the same pose in the trailer but I brushed it off as the creators running out of poses to put the characters. I even hated the sprites I saw of her in a video about all the characters introductions before the game came out in English. It bothered me for some reason that almost her sprites has her mouth open.

When I actually got the game, my hatred for her design carried over and I wanted nothing to do with her. However it didn't take long for her stoic attitude to pique my curiosity and I did a FTE with her. Initially I thought her first FTE just added a little quirk (her obsession with animals) to an otherwise bland character but looking back at it, Pekoyama reveals a lot. Though Hinata points out that the first few sentences she says are curt, she quickly reveals her way of life to him and her way of thinking. She even goes out of her way to tell Hinata somewhat personal things like her inability to smile and her fondness of furry animals. Keep in mind this is the first real conversation we have with her and she already tells you a laundry list of things about herself.

Someone here already pointed out most of the foreshadowing that occurred in Chapter 1 relating to Pekoyama and Kuzuryuu's relationship. My favorite example of this is that during the trial, Kuzuryuu curses at basically all the female characters and calls them demeaning names except for Pekoyama who he simply states as 'that girl'.

By Chapter 2, I started liking her a lot more because 1. She wasn't dead and 2. The previous trial made me see her as an awkward stoic as she got embarrassed about using the bathroom. I casted all my hatred for her and became absolutely in love with her during the diner scene when she showed up with a swimsuit. Cause man, she is really hot. I'll skip ahead to the part of the trial where she reveals herself as Sparkling Justice (or Kira Kira-chan, which ever you prefer). I found this incredibly well done on her part because she acted loud and totally insane which should be incredibly hard if you lived your entire life believing you're an unfeeling tool. I'm not entirely sure if she knew that the original Sparkling Justice was from Spain and wanted the others to find out so she can reveal who the true killer was or if she just didn't know. Still unsure whether it was smart or incredibly stupid of her to use the idea of Sparkling Justice in the first place during the trial and basing it solely on what Sonia said in the library.

The number one thing that I absolutely admire about her relationship with Kuzuryuu is that it's believably strong. Unlike other relationships like Sonia and Gundam who have known each other for like a week or two, you can understand why Pekoyama off-ed Koizumi for Kuzuryuu even if she didn't have that whole 'tool' backstory to her. You can see how much they have an affect on each other, especially since Kuzuryuu mentions her at least once for each chapter after Chapter 2.

Really wish more people like Pekoyama. Most people just see her as Kuzuryuu's bae and leave it at that. Others don't get past her cold exterior. Honestly I think she is just a soft, emotional girl who had to grow up too fast to survive living with the Kuzuryuu Clan. She derives her self-worth from serving Fuyuhiko and being disposable even if her young master doesn't want any of it. He pushes her away to make her not feel like a tool but it actually makes her feel useless and terrible since she's not serving him. Her entire life is just pretty sad and tragic, I hate how people say she just followed Kuzuryuu into despair. Along with a few other characters, Pekoyama was probably already 3/4 there before she met Junko. Man, can't wait to see this upcoming anime to see everyone's back stories, so hyped!!!

I'm not entirely sure if she knew that the original Sparkling Justice was from Spain and wanted the others to find out so she can reveal who the true killer was or if she just didn't know. Still unsure whether it was smart or incredibly stupid of her to use the idea of Sparkling Justice in the first place during the trial and basing it solely on what Sonia said in the library.

If Sonia had to translate it, it was likely all in Spanish, meaning she'd just have to wing it and play it off just from the little she heard from Sonia. She noted that it was too late, so I do think it's smart. Her goal wasn't so much to avoid getting voted completely, but to have the crime fit together. Peko had nothing to do with the game, so it would seem odd that she'd push so hard during the trial, not put up a fight when she's accused, and seemingly have no motive. I just took the Serial killer thing as getting everyone to buy the fact that she was just crazy, and they did buy into it. Nagito even brought up the point about the body discovery announcement, suggesting an accomplice, so she was likely a bit rattled by that.

All things considered, Peko is absolutely awesome.

She's kewl. :)

For real, that's about the only observation I have. I gravitated towards her because I liked her visual design and I picked her FTEs basically to start, and they reinforced her as a fairly standard stoic swordswoman because of her claims that Hajime should find his own meaning in fighting and so on. It turns out to be somewhat of a contradiction when she's revealed to be Fuyuhiko's accomplice, but that's okay; it took me off-guard.

And of course, the conclusion to Chapter 2 is one of the most emotionally charged in the series, but I put more of that on Fuyuhiko. Peko taking her autonomy into her own hands when confronting Mahiru, which is still in the name of serving Fuyuhiko, makes for great juxtaposition between her actions and what they represent. She serves Fuyuhiko to the bitter end, but in a way that causes him to lose what he wanted most out of her service: her. When he's being told that he'll lose her whether he thinks of Peko as a tool or not, despite the different trial outcomes implied, it's brutal.

Pekoyama is the closest thing we're gonna get to a Samurai Ninja hybrid in Danganronpa and goddamn I'll take what I can get.

Also, she's part of the coconut bonus event, and I can't decide if it's great because Mioda was being the best gal ever and likely initiated a convo then hung out with Pekoyama, or Souda's hilarious face.

Souda is gonna eat the crap outta that coconut.

I found it funny that like four or five people seemed to have the hots for Peko. Her Persona 4 protagonist powers are kicking in

Wait, I'm recalling only Hinata, Kuzuryuu and Mioda sorta (she's all over the place), if I'm not wrong?

If I am, Pekoyama is rocking the reverse harem dream.

Teruteru was another aside from his black thong prediction.

Oh yeah, forgot about him. He's sort of a... force of nature in that sense though isn't he.

Please contain yourself Hanamura :(

Her straight-laced personality combined with her funny name and the fact that she carries a fake sword almost makes her more comedic than the rest of the cast... It's probably why she has a bunch of memes about her, such as Sailor Peko: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D2cakrvFELE
She probably correlates to Mukuro from the first game, she has a combat oriented talent, considers herself an underling of a different student, and gets impaled on a pointy thing. Though unlike Mukuro we see more than half a chapter of her.

Mahiru's death isn't exactly her fault either. Fuyuhiko intended to kill her himself, seemingly in anger, but Peko took the swing for him. He didn't order her to, but she felt obligated to despite his insistence that they don't act like master and servant anymore. Her training is ingrained enough, or she's just fond enough of him that even against orders to the contrary she chooses to kill and die for him.

One other notable feature she has is being one of the only people on the island Hajime can't romance. He has better luck with Fuyuhiko than Peko, allowing you to open up a really awkward love triangle...

Playing Peko over in Class Trial 9 on /r/DanganRoleplay has really changed my opinion on her. There's something about this ironic female character that really sticks.

Also, KiraKira-Chan/Sparkling Justice.

Honestly I forgot she existed at times until the chapter 2 class trial

finally one of the Characters I like in DR2

Character Discussion #18 - Haiji Towa (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Game: Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Leader of Adult Resistance

Initially untrusting of Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa, apprehending the two

Later leads the two to the Adult's secret weapon to begin a counterattack on the kids

Advocates the destruction of the button, killing all the Monokuma kids

Left in a desolate state after the destruction of Big Bang Monokuma, and with it all his hope

Discuss anything pertaining the Leader of the Resistance, Haiji Towa!

People like Ishimaru could've lived but instead we have this guy so... I dunno man. I'm still not over the whole lolicon thing.

A world where Ishimaru is dead but Haiji lives is a world not worth living in.

I know it's in poor taste, but I hope one of the presents you could give Ishimaru could be a hardhat or army helmet. I think he'd appreciate the gift.

;~;

Ishimaru should've taken a page from Naegi's book and got a "hard hat" hoodie, you think he'd do so immediately after that FTE.

I only joke out of love. We all know we wanted him to make it, no matter how obvious it would have been.

Oh jeez, this guy...

Haiji is probably the most cowardly person in Danganronpa. He had the means to fight back against the monokumas from the very start, but instead of taking a few brave coworkers to smash the defense monokumas (yes it can be done, the riot at the end of AE shows it) and activate the big bang robot, he runs and hides allowing the city to be destroyed. Where other characters take trauma and become more determined for it, he becomes more skittish. It's only when Shirokuma blows itself up (an act which didn't actually kill it despite the characters' assumptions it did) that he decides to take action.

The closest approximation is probably Jin Kirigiri. When the headmaster sees the tragic event happening, he creates a sealed environment to protect his daughter and what's left of his students, one which was stocked to last for years and sealed shut with cooperation of the inhabitants. Haiji decided to take a bunch of random people and hide in a hole in the sewers, with little plan for keeping them supplied apart from the crates of food that happened to be there.

Haiji also has trouble getting his own people to work together, even to seal the hole the monokumas are coming from. Shirokuma's "sacrifice" wouldn't have been necessary had he been a more active leader.

He also despises children, despite probably being one of Kotoko's top customers. Little surprise either, they are proof of what a useless vagabond he is. Two teenage girls tear through the city he's unwilling to stand for with little trouble. Five children slaughter thousands, destroying the city named after his father with the help of a few machines, while he has to be part of a riot to even leave his cave. His own baby sister, who was ostracized from the family, stole his place in the family business.

I like Haiji not as a person (he is a terrible person), but as a character who fulfills his purpose in the story. He perfectly represents the adults who start out as cowering and panicking in terror, who then obtain hope and start cruelly rampaging once they feel the tide is turning in their favor, all thanks to Shirokuma's exquisite manipulation.

Plus his behavior clearly shows the kind of environment Monaca grew up in, building on both their characters.

Also based Matthew Mercer doing the voice acting <3

Haiji is a very unfriendly fellow, wich, as you would know if you've seen my flair, is the type of character i like. Of course, while Byakuya knows excactly what he's doing. the sam can't be said about Haiji. he also follows in the footsteps of Hagakure and Kazuichi by being a spineless coward (like me). So, I kinda like Haiji...

Don't have all too much to say about the guy himself. This is gonna cover a bit of Haiji and a bit of Toko too given how much the two contribute to the main plot. Haiji's a piece of shit, no question. Those pedo lines were a bit creepy and are made even creepier by the fact that they don't even dwell on it or go into the fact that he prefers younger girls…

But I still have a major issue with the entire premise of Danganronpa: Another Episode, primarily the whole riling people who actually are victims up thing. I think it's pretty detracting to the overall theme of the plot to tell a group of people to stop being a bunch of unarmed people being attacked by Monokumas to stop being victims, and Haiji's character is at the center of that.

Toko: Why don't you fight? Isn't this a resistance? An organization created to fight these little brats, right? Then, why don't you just fight?

Haiji: Fight? that'd be suicide. We have no guns.

Haiji then goes on to explain that his arm was crushed by a Monokuma. Toko's response?

Toko: So basically, your will got shattered along with that arm of yours, right? And that's why you're sitting here, moping and pitying yourself, right?... Excuses. Save 'em for your psychiatrist.

Haiji:What's the point of fighting back, knowing that you'd die!? It's all for nothing if you're dead!

Toko: The way you are now...You might as well be. Someone who just keeps making excuses and doesn't even try to fight back...You're worse than dead. Totally worthless.

Haiji: Rushing forward at full speed with no hope of success isn't courage, it's stupidity. Well? Do you have a plan? Do you know of some way to get out of here? Do you know how to remove a wristband?

Toko: Y-Yeah, of course! I-I'm sure Future Foundation technology can get it off easily!

Now, I get what they're trying to do. Don't just surrender to the enemy and let yourself die from self-pity, that's fine and all and makes for a compelling theme. However, they just established the guy got his ass handed to him in a split second against the Monokumas, so the whole point about fighting back is completely pointless if they have no means to do so. Yes, we're informed later that Haiji himself hasn't done much and was a terrible leader, and that'd be fine if they kept the criticisms specific to Haiji. But the game has the big moment where Komaru decides to talk down to the entire resistance and tell them to stop being victims, so they're not attacking him individually, they're saying the very notion of unarmed adults not fighting back is just victimizing yourself and being a coward.

Rather than presenting that both sides were gray, with both Toko proposing a good point that they shouldn't give up and Haiji proposing the also good point that it's not that simple, they instead propose Toko's word as the unbroken word of God because Haiji later turned out to be a piece of shit. Never mind that whole mass genocide thing. Never mind the fact that both Komaru and Toko are armed with future foundation technology and actually have a chance to fight back against the Monokumas capable of tearing through metal with ease and children without any weapons themselves…Never mind the fact that Toko's only suggestion in this scene was relying on the future foundation (which ignores the whole fighting back thing and is waiting for help) knowing the Future Foundation won't come.

That's my beef with the game. They conflate "Haiji" with "the resistance" a lot. Makes sense, since it's the first time we've actually seen a large mob to represent "the people" in Danganronpa. We've always had a set of characters and individuals embodying whatever traits the game wished to discuss, but it works to the story's disadvantage in this case.

I think it's a major detractor to try and establish Haiji as a kind of shitty guy that just gives up and later reveals him to be a piece of shit since it ended up being "a guy who brings up a genuinely good point about why we're not fighting back, but apparently the entire resistance is full of worthless people too idiotic and weak to defend themselves because one guy was a piece of shit." Toko's constant bitching got old quick, and while I understand that's her personality, the game doesn't use it as a development point, it just establishes that she was right all along, that the people were all a bunch of cowards. If it wasn't, they wouldn't have had Komaru's speech and just talking down to them. Yeah, they got Big Bang Monokuma, but at the time, Toko's only suggestion was contacting the Future Foundation that Toko knows wouldn't have come at the time, so it was pointless. There's also the fact that it was guarded, so you'd need weapons just to get to the weapon…

It makes sense if she's criticizing Komaru, who is armed with FF technology and has a fighting chance, but is still looking for opportunities to victimize herself. That is one thing. If she later found out that Haiji was behind a lot of the problems and still did nothing, then her criticisms would hit harder and make more sense, not to mention it would internalize the criticism to just Haiji and not blaming the entire resistance. But in general, I think this part kind of made things weird in the game, because at this point, even though it was obvious that Haiji was likely going to have some kind of twist at the end where he was responsible for more than he was letting on, I still completely agreed with him and thought Toko was just full of shit. In general, this game's plot has a large portion of Toko just expressing her views and condescending to everyone else without any kind of being called out or punished for it.

The closest we get to the theme being called out is the scene in chapter 4 where you fight Toko and she tries to kill Nagito so she doesn't have to choose between Byakuya and Komaru. Ignoring the obvious stupidity of cooperating with a known member of ultimate despair and attempting to use the loved one of a likely well-respected member of the future foundation as a hostage and how many issues that'd bring, we never really have her called out on her bullshit. All Komaru does is have her say "you're my friend still, I won't betray you." I think that's kind of a copout if Toko hardly ever gets called out if at all. There's a portion in chapter 3 where Komaru gets mad at her and calls her out on her attitude, but it's not really brought up again, they don't even discuss it much when they reunite, and Komaru is still the one to apologize, showing they found her to be in the wrong.

Haiji is still a piece of shit, but they made him too easy to side with at that point in the game. They should have either had that criticism later, cut it out entirely, and In general, they should internalize the criticisms to just Haiji and not use him to represent the entire resistance.

The pedo line was pretty funny though, I'll admit. Fucked up, but funny.

Toko: A-Are you...taking us to a secluded spot to...To do "stuff" with us? If that's your plan, hurry up and get it over with! I won't resist!

Haiji: Um, no. That's not what I was thinking at all. Especially not with you. I...I like 'em younger. As young as possible.

I also like the way he says Monokuma.

That line at the end is proof positive that my mind is a sieve when it comes to this game. Either it was lost in translation or I forgot it, but considering Kotoko is for better or worse one of the landmark characters of UDG...

Oh dear god. I still find it creepily funny that they just glance over it and Toko and Komaru just go with it.

[S]The beginning of the chump brigade! Haiji and a select few characters are minor enough that they'll share a week with another character. So sometime midday Friday, Masaru Daimon will also go up, and next Monday night Mukuro Ikusaba will go along back to schedule. This gives about 3.5 days for each of the minor characters.

As for Haiji, I have a lot of choice words for him, none of which are pleasant. Dude's just an ass.

Character Discussion #19 - Masaru Daimon (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Li'l Ultimate P.E.

Game: Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Initial Leader of the Warriors of Hope

First to hunt Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa

Defeated and seemingly killed, however shown to be alive with the other Warriors of Hope in an endgame CG

Discuss anything pertaining the Li'l Ultimate P.E., Masaru Daimon!

He... Exists? That's a trait, right?

He gets to live too, I guess?

I just know nobody's gonna give him a chance, so I'll give it a shot:

Since this is going to be a running theme with the UDG kids, I may as well get it out of the way here: The AE kids show the effect of Pavlovian learning and abuse. In Masaru's case, he was beaten by his drunk of a father, harshly and often.

He thinks a hero has to put himself in harm's way, and that leaders should stand at the front. He's likely been made to stand there and take it while his dad let out his frustrations, best to feel like he is preparing for something more. He thinks vulgarity, even minor swears like "wiener" are a thing he can only do with no adults around. Who's to say his dad didn't swear like a sailor and punish Masaru for doing the same?

In fact, he was beaten so much to make him stay in line, that now he has trouble holding together without occasionally beating himself. We see it in him pounding his own arm until it was black and blue to make it stop shaking. His apparent fear of cowardice may relate as well, if his father tended to yell at him for crying or quivering after being smacked around. Authority requires some level of restraint, and parenthood gives a lot of authority over a child.

Did he deserve to be let off the hook? Probably not, he did slaughter hundreds of people and better people have been killed for less in the danganronpa verse. But at this point, every person willing to atone and still alive is worth keeping. Besides, his crimes are likely no worse than what any member of Ultimate despair has done, and those guys got a second chance.

Honestly, I never realised he was so widely disliked by the fandom!

I understand that he was underdeveloped with Chapter One Syndrome™, but he was he only warrior of hope who's backstory made me cry like a little bitch, lmao (I can definitely attribute this to me personally relating to him, though. Now I think about it, I understand how to others he was very one-dimensional and 'annoying'). Personally, he was a very close second favourite Warrior of Hope (to Kotoko, her role in the final chapter won me over on her), and I hope if the Warriors of Hope turn up at all the DR3, he gets fleshed out a lot more.

Same, at least for the surprise at the disdain for him.

He's the one warrior of hope that doesn't get completely consumed by his abuse. He works against it to be the leader he claims to be, and even though he falters a bit, he still acts like a kid for the most part. Nagisa is about the only other one who's personality wasn't completely rewritten by his past, and he's the fan favorite for the kids...

It's like everyone expects a character's personality to be handed to them on a silver platter, sometimes appreciating fiction requires reading between the lines.

This is a really good point, I guess most people just let Masaru have his chapter one syndrome and not attempt to analyse him further. He was a pretty well-portrayed character, imo. I suppose that the Warriors just fell into sub-villain syndrome and nobody cares to analyse them past what was given to us on screen.

I've always headcanoned that soon after DR:AE the Warriors of Hope get rescued per se, and get sent to be a part of the Future Foundation/be taken care of by members of FF. I'd love to see something like this in DR3 although it's very unlikely that this would happen. Even the Warriors being mentioned would make me happy, honestly.

I was going to go on to talk about my surprise about Nagisa being the fan-favourite Warrior, but I went on a tangent that would be more suited for Nagisa and Kotoko's character discussions :b

Annoying as hell and overall pointless character. Maybe if he'd been built up more I would've cared but he wasn't so yeah... Feel bad about him being beat but still he's a worse Mini-Leon.

I don't think I've encountered anyone who likes him tbh...

I…seriously don't remember anything about this guy aside from the fact that he was abused. Chapter 1 syndrome. That and the fact that the only thing about him is that he'd probably like the wieners song from Drawn Together. Yeah…

Another Episode tried really hard to go for the "look at these abused kids" angle, I feel. In general, Masaru captures what I don't care for about the Warriors of Hope. It's not that they're written poorly, but this format of game makes it hard for Danganronpa to carry out its usual means of storytelling.

Danganronpa games give you a big cast to start with, then they start to dwindle as the story progresses. From a mystery standpoint, this is so you don't have to reintroduce a new cast after each chapter, the way something Phoenix Wright does. That's why almost every Phoenix Wright almost always has 2-3 suspects at most and a main character you know won't be the killer 99% of the time gets framed. The Danganronpa method is efficient from a mystery standpoint. From a narrative perspective, it lets them sprinkle bits of character reactions to try and entice you to be drawn to different people. Oooh! There's Gundham! But wait, Mikan is cool too. Damn it, I was going to hang out with Kyoko though…So many to choose from…That kind of thing works well because everyone gets a small piece of the pie at a time.

Granted, some characters still get more than others overall, and you have times where characters will get greater focus, but the fact remains you still get an opportunity to try and connect with someone. It's how we can have someone like the ultimate imposter be pretty interesting despite the fact that he died in the first chapter. We didn't have much time with him, but we didn't need much either. That isn't to say that the games have nailed this down perfectly, but I felt there was an improvement from DR 1 to DR 2 in how interesting the people that died early were.

But in the spinoff, the writing style is just each chapter is a hope kid de jour, each dealing with a different form of abuse. That's mainly done to see how the trials affect our main protagonists, Komaru and Toko, but it comes at the expense of the increased cheap deaths. The characters aren't all sharing a pie anymore, they're vehicles to develop another one. Even DR 2 had characters that were created for other characters, like say Peko, but still managed to write them in a way where they were their own person. I felt the warriors of hope were just vehicles for developing others. It's no surprise Monaca, Nagisa, and Kotoko are generally the three talked about most, because they're the ones that get more than their chapter of the day for screentime. In Masaru's case, he got the Leon/Teruteru treatment of having next to no one bring him up ever again and had the misfortune of being the chapter 1 guy. I think a style in the way of the ultimate imposter was a step in a good direction, give the player someone to act as an "aha" character after they gain some revelation after having completed the game to go back to. The spinoff doesn't give us the benefit of free time events or an ___ mode to gain more insight on the characters that get written out of the story early on, so the big cast model kind of awkwardly fits when they're trying to focus on 1 or two characters instead.

Wieners.

He stole a Digimon Savers character name. After that I've had a hard time thinking anything else of him.

What particularly strikes me is how his name is written in exactly the same way, complete with "dai" read in nanori as "masaru". I don't know if Kodaka really pays much mind to the rather obscure fifth series of a kids' anime franchise that was disgraced at the time it aired, so I imagine it's a coincidence...since Masaru's name is a pun on "big problem" I guess he just conveniently came up with the exact same pun. Somehow.

I like him ._.

I like all the warriors of hope.

But then again I like every danganronpa character in some way so...

But I'm still pretty surprised by how many people seem to actively dislike him, I'd understand if they just didn't care about him or just forgot about him because well, chapter one syndrome, but still...

[S] 
Due to first boss syndrome he's the Warrior of Hope with the least development. He doesn't even show up during Ch 1 to confront Komaru before their battle, which even Jataro got. Also he looks way too much like a mini Leon, or smol Leon.

What do people think the chances of the Warriors of Hope appearing in future DR content? Think it'll actually happen or it'll be more like the DR2 kids, where the writer wants us to draw our own conclusions? I think them being children will make it harder to insert them again without the setting of UDG, unless there's some time skip shenanigans...

I'll go with "I wouldn't be sad to see more of them"

I don't actually know if they're considered important enough to bring up in the anime, but if Komaru and Toko show up then I'm guessing they will too. The whole Towa city thing might just be left by the wayside depending on how full the plot of the anime is.

I'd be fine seeing more of them, personally. At least Nagisa and Monaca. I mean, I'd figure the Monaca stuff isn't just something they'd leave unfinished. I go back and forth on Kotoko, and I'm not sure on Masaru/Jataro though.

[S]I'd assume the other Warriors of Hope sans Monaca would appear as a group, so if one's in they're all in.

I'd like to see them again, though I wouldn't want my personal headcanons about them to be totally thrown out the window, haha.

I'd assume they're at least be acknowledged in the DR2 anime, that is if Monaca turns up.

Character Discussion #20 - Mukuro Ikusaba (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Soldier

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc

Novel: If, Zero

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Helped her sister, Junko Enoshima set up the Mutual Killing Games as part of Ultimate Despair

Infiltrated the ranks of the students once the game began disguised as her sister

Betrayed and killed by her sister in Ch 1

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Soldier, Mukuro Ikusaba!

Mukuro Ikusaba.

Ah! New World Order
Mukuro Ikusaba. The sixteenth student. Lying hidden somewhere in this school. The one they call the Ultimate Despair…Watch out for her.

We got this line to close out chapter 4 and to see a billion times in chapter 5. We get a pretty straightforward masked man murder and twin switch plot to close out the game. Mukuro was one of my favorite characters in DR 1 despite the fact that she was in the game for a whole five minutes. Some people just call her waifu bait because of DR: IF, but even then I think she was the most fitting character to get a spinoff since we didn't really know much about her. I especially like her free time events, as short as they are.

So what's the deal? You're Mukuro Ikusaba, likely a name she took on for military purposes, and you're a really young girl in a military of mostly men. My favorite part about her FTEs is how she is talking about her life, but has to make slight alterations to fit the fact that she's impersonating a bubbly fashionista

In her first event, she tells you to back off and not get the wrong idea or get close to her. She then explains that she constantly has to deal with guys trying to get close to her in the wrong way. Because of the ultimate fashionista title and just her general appearance, we get this:

Makoto: probably because she's so, um...flashy

Makoto ends up a bit confused about her reaction, but she's quite happy, and we also get the nice line about her wanting to set Makoto up with "an aggressive girl" she knows and it's clearly supposed to be her. The line carries its own meaning coming from a fashionista, but when you apply the "ultimate soldier" filter and have this situation play out in Mukuro's environment, then Mukuro is likely one of the few if not the only woman in her unit, so she has to live around the constant fear of potentially being raped, and this isn't even getting into the fact that she's likely much younger than the other guys.

As you progress through her FTEs and see her get closer to Makoto, she has a harder time about not revealing things about herself, and she ends up being less and less subtle about her backstory, leading to situations where she mentions that she was homeless…then became a model. Yeah…In school mode, you can talk to her and she'll drop the fun tidbit that she's also an expert knife thrower.

The other thing is that because of the disguise gap, Makoto doesn't realize how much she appreciates the things that wouldn't really be much of a big deal to say otherwise. For example:

Mukuro: I could never kill someone! What, do I look like would? Do I seriously look like a killer!?

Makoto: N-No, that's not what I meant. Really, you don't....

Mukuro: There's something about you. I don't get sick of talking to you, like I do most people. let's hang out again, some time, 'kay?

To Makoto, it's just a pretty obvious line because he didn't want anyone to kill each other. He didn't realize he was talking to a member of ultimate despair and the ultimate soldier who has no doubt killed countless people, more than anyone in the game aside from maybe Genocider whateverthehellyouwannacallher so saying that she doesn't "look like" a killer would mean a lot to what is likely a really coldhearted persona. He didn't realize what he was hitting at when he said nor did he realize how much a few simple words would mean to someone who'd have no real social ties.

We get her confiding in Makoto in her last event:

Mukuro: "To be honest, I'm kinda fed up with all this...we get carried away and rush face-first into stuff. Even I have to wonder if it's okay to live like that...dreams are meant to change as you grow up...but I've had the same dream since I was a little kid, and I've rushing toward it ever since...I put everything I had into that one narrow world. I feel like there's so much more I could be doing that I'm not, and I don't like that feeling..."

In the last event, Makoto can't quite connect what she's thinking about leaving, and can only assume modeling. From her last event, we could see that she isn't on board with the destruction of hope plan and isn't crazy like her sister. This part was suggesting that she's conflicted about going through with that and was considering renouncing her ultimate despair status, and it the main ignition was someone to confide in.

Keep in mind she still genuinely loves her sister, even if she's crazy. It's a difficult reality of abusive situations, but even though Mukuro was being manipulated to a great degree, she still loved her sister. Her shocked "why me" reaction after being impaled is a testament to the fact that she'd likely hesitate herself if not refuse to do so if she had to kill a loved one. She seemed confounded that her sister would do it, so the idea of her doing the same has likely not crossed her mind. Mukuro is the framework for the entire DR 2 cast's ultimate despair dynamic. In all of their free time events, you can get an idea of the difficulties they faced that likely broke them and compelled them to join ultimate despair even though it's never explicitly mentioned.

With Mukuro, she mentions that she never feels the need to be "on" that she can't fully understand why she's feeling so much more conflict and hesitation, and unsure of her very motives now that she's been exposed to a healthier relationship likely for the first time. Of course, that conflict gets expanded because she now has two people she cares about standing at opposite extremes and wants to find a way to still show her care for both of them. Some might be put off by her crushing on Makoto, but I take it as her being starved for affection the way someone like Mikan is, so it makes a nice contrast with the "strong, cold" image she carries.

It also helps that Mukuro's murder trials are my two favorite in the first game. The big takeaway from Mukuro and ultimate despair in general is just how they're mostly people from broken, unhealthy environments of various types and starved for validation or affection. It acts as the main springboard in IF, where you can see how Junko is obviously being terrible to Mukuro, but in Mukuro's mind, she's still caring and understanding to her sister. The IF ending has her deciding to show her sister love by filling her with despair, so while it does have odd parts, I think IF's biggest goal in showing us insight toward Mukuro was welcomed.

"This wasn't supposed to…why me?"

I wonder how it would turn out with you as Mukuro and me as Makoto in a class trial. I really want to see this ;D

Can we agree that mukuro could have turned into a yandere while watching naegi hanging out with other girls? It's very obvious that she had feelings for him(looking at her school mode) without "IF." Also i kinda think she would be the type of jealous protective girl.

fire up the Careless Whisper and Hagakure torture

I'd think so too. It's like seeing a wolf growling at another one.

I don't see Mukuro being an 'aggressive girl'. She sure looks like a herbivore like Makoto based on all the pictures. It's said that everything she did in Danganronpa 1 is just something she read off a script anyway. I don't see why Mukuro would have fear during her time in the military because she's frankly invincible, and I think IF said she's only doing this stuff because Junko wanted it.

From what I can tell, Mukuro is actually a fairly normal person with a combat superpower. Other than her unbelievable obsession with Junko which was never satisfactorily explained, I don't see anything she does that'd be inconsistent with the introvert image she gives.

I took these things straight from her Free time events in DR 1. Just because you're powerful enough to fight people off doesn't mean she doesn't get approached by guys in that situation. Granted, some of it we'll never know the full extent of since she's impersonating her sister to a degree, but it's quite clear that DR 1 had it where she made several slips she then has to cover up. Nearly every interaction with her did that, so I don't think this is invalid. She explicitly says that she wants to set Makoto with an "aggressive girl who won't give up." She doesn't necessarily mean that she's quick to fight, but she described Makoto as an Omega and her comment was in response to that.

The pictures are still images, so I don't feel that really captures much about her personality. I know people point out that "she was looking at Makoto in every shot" thing, but eh. She just seems distant and annoyed with most people (which she explicitly says in her FTEs) and is kind of caught off guard when she has a healthy relationship for the first time.

I think her obsession makes sense if you're in an abusive situation. You can still love someone and genuinely be attached to them even when it's an unhealthy relationship. As crazy as Junko is, that's still her little sister. She wouldn't get many opportunities to get close to people if 1) she's a soldier and 2) she's a wanted member of ultimate despair, so she doesn't a lot of close connections, which is why we're seeing her so moved by what doesn't seem like much.

I take it as the framework for DR 2 where she's a product of an abusive situation and it's her starting to see that herself. She's quite unsure of how she's feeling, and I took it as her having a different type of relationship with someone for the first time and starting to question how she's been approaching life after being starved for affection so long. The same was the case for pretty much everyone in DR 2 when you get down to what likely made them fall into despair.

The cast of DR1 spent two years living together and yet somehow only Makoto's approval matters to Mukuro? Well Mukuro does have the 'girl you get for free' feel to it, but I still find that rather insulting. If Mukuro's behavior can be explained by just lack of affection, Hope's Peak Academy is filled with friendly goody-two-shoes that are better than Makoto in just about every way. Okay, maybe Mukuro has a hard time getting another guy interested in her since she's said to be relatively unattractive, but Hina and Sayaka sure seem quite unequivocal. Mukuro can't be more repulsive than Toko and it sure doesn't look like the students shunned her.

I'd say Mukuro is partly a victim of the "Hope's Peak Academy revolves around Makoto" issue. Only she and Junko didn't share their life stories and deepest secrets with him, as we found out in DRIF, and I guess that's why Mukuro still turned out to be a loner even though there are no shortage of other girls who certainly would've reached out to her and is willing to listen.

...I didn't say that only his word only mattered to her. Please don't twist my words like that. I said that she has been in an abusive situation and for Mukuro, this is one of the few connections she has that's healthy and mutual. Just because she's in the class doesn't necessarily mean she's buddy buddy with everyone there. She was fine with interacting with the others from what we could see in IF, but going strictly by how she was in DR 1's FTEs, she still says that she's annoyed by most people and distances herself from them, partially from her life situation. I'm talking specifically in the context of the killing game, which would be essentially what people were like when they first entered Hope's Peak. I never said anything about shunning Mukuro, I said she herself says she gets annoyed by most people and given her life circumstances, probably wouldn't have many opportunities to truly get close with people.

I don't think there was an issue that did that, and I never had a problem. They just showed us someone in a shitty family situation having someone else talk.

Makoto is not supposed to be the psychologist of Hope's Peak Academy no matter how much DRIF made it look like that he simultaneously maxed out with every student in the game during the two years they spent together. If all it takes was talking to the most ordinary guy in Hope's Peak Academy for Mukuro to change her ways, none of events in DR1 could've happened because there are plenty of friendly students around that are more qualified in anything you'd want.

The only way Makoto's input could've been so transformational is if the Mukuro/Makoto relationship is similar to that of Toko/Byakuya. In other words, Mukuro only cares about what Makoto thinks and no one else, which is why in this school full of bright and cheerful people not a single student had an impact on Mukuro besides Makoto. I suspect it's intended to be the case, but the game seems to go out of its way to say otherwise.

I stand by my words. Junko was clearly abusive towards everyone in DR 2, and I don't think it's unreasonable to think the same toward Mukuro, especially if she killed her without any thought. It's not so much that Makoto is amazingly supportive, but that Mukuro doesn't have many avenues for support. Just because you're surrounded by a class of students doesn't mean you're particularly close to them. It's not as simple as "just break it off with Junko" because, like I said, that's still her sister to her. It's an incredibly toxic relationship if she's so willing to do things for Junko, and it isn't to say that Junko doesn't genuinely love Mukuro, but it's still harder for people to break out of when they've got such conflicting feelings. That's just the nature of abusive relationships and why they're so tricky and muddled.

Mukuro was one of my favourites since she 'introduced' herself way back in the prologue. There's almost TOO much to her character to go over, albeit mostly from IF/Zero, so lemme see if I can sum up my thoughts concisely here. Otherwise I'll just be fangirling and gushing since Mukuro is most definitely the closest I'm getting to a waifu in this fandom.

I'd say first and foremost, you really have to look at her in relation to her sister as the two are nigh-inseperable as an entity. Mukuro ADORES Junko in the kind of obsessive, unhealthy way that spawns mountains of fanfics. There's a lot of speculation as for why that is given that Mukuro displays a pretty down-to-earth and even kind personality when she doesn't have Junko actively influencing her, which puts the two at odds almost immediately. My own interpretation mainly comes from reading Zero, and it's that Mukuro feels incredibly guilty for abandoning her sister during what may have been a critical time in their lives to go off and train with Fenrir's mercenaries. When Mukuro finally returns three years later, Junko has, in that time, developed from merely being manipulative and creepy due to her analytical prowess and the ease with which she can predict and direct the people around her to outright being the Ultimate Despair. We're never given the exact turning point for Junko as Kodaka believes her 'evil' works best unexplained, but there is a definite difference of magnitude in her acts and schemes between her younger self and the teenage Junko. It's likely that Mukuro blamed herself for this in part, thinking that maybe if she'd been there for her, her sister wouldn't have become such a maniacal villain. So she devotes herself to her completely, in the hopes of atoning in some small way for her 'transgression'.

Another interesting thing, at least in my mind, is how much Mukuro's acting changes around Makoto. When we see her imitate her sister in Zero for instance, the act is still far from perfect but she's much closer to capturing Junko's wild mood swings and the way she goes off on unrelated tangents and makes references seemingly at random. The difference between Zero when compared to IF or DR1 is Makoto's presence - it's all but confirmed Mukuro has something of a crush on him, and it's likely her many slip-ups as 'Junko' were directly related to the fact that she was speaking to him specifically, probably making it a ton easier to get flustered.

I suppose the only other thing that comes to mind to mention that someone else won't likely say far more eloquently than me is that it seems likely that Mukuro Ikusaba wasn't actually her real name. It fits, given the bombastic nature of the translation and the evidence that Junko Enoshima is an assumed name as well, as well as Junko's comments in chapter six of the first game where she says she hates being asked why they have different surnames and that "the truth is fuckin' lame anyway". It makes sense to me on some level that neither is using their real name by the point in the story we meet them.

Ah Finally, I get to talk about my waifu.

To me her potential is very illusive and I feel like if she was kept around we could basickly learn about her relationship with junko, or at the very least her wartime passage.

I like to think her betrayal was intentional, because her intention was to double cross her sister in the end. I say this looking at her reluctance in the school time events and her obvious (At least to us as the player) contradictions to Junko's true nature.

The Bio's may have mislead us into Her relationship with her sister, in that while it was abusive, it may have also been a survival method. Considering her excellent track record as a mercenary, it's safe to assume she has combat knowledge to a high degree; physical or psychological.

That having been said, I feel as though her cold and calculative, yet confused and dazed portrayal in If is much more telling than the brief notes of her in Zero and DR1. That might be because of the focus, but I would not be surprised if she made an appearance later down the line. Her popularity seems to show so. There's a lot of threads that could be tied with her sympathetic side, perhaps as a side effect to her constant assaults physically in battle and verbally by Junko.

In summary, Rest in Peaces Muku the Merc, Perhaps we will see your true colors in another time and place.

I don't see how Junko and Mukuro's relationship can be abusive from Mukuro's point of view. For example, Mukuro still thought Junko was telling the truth regarding Makoto's blood type, meaning she still trusts her sister unquestionably even after a failed attempt to kill Mukuro. Whether this is because Mukuro knows that's how Junko shows her affection or that she's hopelessly naïve doesn't matter. She's willing to trust Junko even after an attempt to kill her so if she's that trusting, why would she ever feel bad about some verbal abuse?

Now, Mukuro does not fear death and is willing to do anything for her sister, but that doesn't mean she can't have second thoughts on things like killing Makoto or getting herself killed. The whole 'I'll bring despair to Junko by helping everyone' seems like just a way of weaseling out of what she originally agreed to do, and that's fine. You don't need a love story or deep background for what amounted to 'I changed my mind' when it's a decision that involves getting yourself killed.

I can reasonably understand that sort of mindset, but I was just trying to give a different possibility as opposed to what has been more commonly presented.

Holy cow, so many people have so much to say about a girl we see for about half a chapter... I feel like I should've jumped on this one earlier, but whatevs.

As with most of the cast, Mukuro is a very interesting character. She got into Hope's peak with the talent of ultimate soldier despite the fact that she's technically a mercenary and not a soldier.

Honestly, I'm not sure whether she changed during her time with Fenris. Before joining them, she ran off from her family for reasons that are never told to us, though according to her file it was specifically so she could join Fenris. After she returns, she's fiercely loyal to her sister to the point of taking her place (not to die for her though, she wasn't really on board with that), and devotes herself for most of IF trying to "give her sister despair" as some kind of penance. On the other hand, she acts like a scared teenage girl for most of IF, which seems odd from someone used to an actual battlefield. She's sheepish around people and runs from interpersonal problems rather than trying to talk her way out. Perhaps for the best, I doubt she could beat her sister, Makoto, or anyone in an argument to be honest.

And Junko hates her. The one and only killing done by someone who hadn't had their memory wiped, and the trap was set in the very floor of the gym. That kind of premeditation had to take months, and likely involved specifically installing it when she was having the cameras and automated defenses put in. I don't believe her when she says it was just because her sister was a bad actor, I think Junko planned to off her from the start to establish Monokuma's seemingly magic power and perhaps get rid of her annoying sister...

In IF, she tried to kill her in more than 5 different ways (Impaled by spears, mobbed by her classmates, ambushed by monokuma, mobbed by tons of monokumas, gunned down by wall turrets, etc), psychologically tormented her multiple times, including in the midst of battle, and calls her disappointing over and over. Not to mention that while Junko has no respect for the dead, she doesn't desecrate anyone's corpse quite as much as Mukuro's. I don't know what poor Mukuro has done to draw that kind of ire, but it's probably more than just being a disappointment, at least in Junko's eyes.

Something interesting about IF, Makoto's reaction to Mukuro suggests she and Junko may have been acting exactly the same when they were in school as they act now. He isn't surprised or even worried when she suggests she might kill someone. It's not too unlikely, they let Toko stay despite having a serial killer living in her head, though it would make Jin Kirigiri's judgement in who to let in seem a bit questionable...

Boy, I've said a lot about Danganronpa IF, but that's where most of what I know about her comes from so I'll leave it.

Loved the tension of a dangerous mystery student lurking amongst the ranks.

Her actual death was one of the biggest holy shit moments in the series and really gave the rules of the killing game some genuine credibility, and added gravity to monokuma's threats without being surreal like DR2, that created a great atmosphere.

I like Mukuro as a device for adding intrigue and mystery, I liked that see was presented as this great threat but ended up just being someone who died quite powerlessly and no one among the surviving students will even remember anything about who she was (At least they'll remember each other through their lives in the killing game)

For me Mukuro is great as a spectre lingering over the killing game, being mostly a mystery even in School mode. I like her as a charatcer that's notable moreso for what we don't know about her than what we do know about her.

I didn't like IF's characterisation of her and in a childish way I really don't like the fanbase that has emerged around the IF version of Mukuro. (How dare they enjoy the character in a different way to me)

There are plenty of fodders that could've died to get the point across for the first death and hardly a reason to waste someone Monokuma called the ace in the hole. I wonder if she's killed off so pointlessly because had she lived, the students wouldn't be able to weasel out of the 'hope is eternal' theme. Despite the game's dark atmosphere, the game always tries to make it look like those involved had no choice and that if only things were different this wouldn't have happened.

Well, if Mukuro was around in chapter 5, most likely she'll just flat out tell Makoto to pick two students that isn't him to die, and if he can't decide she'll pick for him. There's nothing to suggest even all 14 other students put together could've stopped Mukuro from doing that if she's even minimally armed, let alone the depleted state in chapter 5. If someone pulled off an improbable heroic effort and killed Mukuro, that person then gets voted to death because Mukuro is still one of the student and thus all the Class Trial stuff would apply. Now that would be depressing!

Mukuro is an example of a character with great design while the story is totally incapable of backing up the actual character. Her profile is simply awesome. The 16th student. The Ultimate Despair. Never been wounded in battle. Some of her distinguishing traits coincidentally overlaps with Kyoko's (distinguishing mark on right hand that obviously has to be covered at all times, and presumably being very comfortable around dead bodies), and while there was no attempt to make her and Kyoko the same person, it's a healthy dosage of intrigue to the two characters that you really don't know anything about at that point.

Her harmless appearance is a stark contrast since Sakura just died, who obviously looks like a force of nature. Sakura's death brought unity to the students, but is unity enough to overcome someone who is clearly meant to be the most physically capable out of the 16 students? Well, of course you never get to find any of that out because Mukuro is already dead. Honestly chapter 5 should've ended with 2 automatic kills from Mukuro on at least the first gameplay to drive across the point that this isn't supposed to be fair. It should be that no matter how much friendship and trust you have, you can't stop Mukuro from casually picking off any 2 students before the rules stop her, at least until you see her past and know what her weakness is.

Any attempt to flush out Mukuro's characters just makes her look like the Ultimate Little Sister Obsession. In fact, that title would've made a lot more sense in explaining what she's doing compared to her real one. The problem here is that Junko is a poorly developed character and so is Mukuro, and their relationship is completely nonexistent. While it's not too much to fill in the blanks, you can't just leave everything blank and expect that to work. If Mukuro had the development of say, Hina, you can get away with saying Mukuro's relationship with Junko is a one way version of Sakura and Hina's friendship. If Junko had the development of what Sayaka should have been (school mode suggests plenty of students are enamored with her), you can say Mukuro is obviously Junko's biggest fan for being so close to her. Or you can have some background story about how Mukuro used to run across a field of exploding bombs to get food because Junko was hungry when they were four and this is why she never refuses Junko on anything. But of course none of that is in the game itself and even in the supplementary materials it's not filled out in a convincing way.

It'd probably help if Danganronpa IF didn't get into the stupid 'Mukuro versus 100 Monokumas' deal. That's just a very sad way to try to make up for Mukuro's lack of involvement in Danganronpa 1. She's actually one of my favorite characters in Danganronpa, but there's just no amount of salvage that can be done to save her. When the story specifically says it can't even be bothered to explain why Junko and Mukuro are twins with differing last names, that pretty much shows how little thought went into their characters.

I'm not sure I'd 100% agree about flushing out her character. I think we see some pretty significant development and a development of how exactly they twist around the notions of the ideal soldier (as they do with some other characters. ex - Yamada could easily be an interpretation of how being that obsessive over media isolates an individual)...namely, that just being one in society pretty much means you're not a relevant person at all and can lead you down some pretty strange paths.

The ideal soldier they portray here seems pretty simplistic: follow orders, don't question them, do them well. That is very much the way I think they view command on the battlefield from the design perspective. Someone barks out orders, someone follows and executes them. If your side is better, you win. And that's pretty much Ikusaba in a nutshell as well...just listen and obey.

What I find they seem to work on heavily is that Ikusaba is an empty canvas...maybe the best way to describe it is that she develops a unique personality by the seeming lacking of one. Why is she in Ultimate Despair? Because her sister wanted her to and her sister dreams of killing. Ikusaba, without entirely realizing it, even starts blurting out hints that she had no clue what to do. Either by admitting through the veil of Enoshima in FTEs or by just having no will or interest after School Mode ends, she has no initiative...just instincts.

And I think this really plays into to her mould as the SHSL soldier. She is exactly what you'd want on the battlefield: someone who shuts up, follows orders, and does them well. Any hint of personal want or desire goes straight out and instead she turns her eyes on the goal at hand. You don't like the orders? Shut up and do them. Her death even symbolizes that well. Enoshima's dreams up a fitting death for a soldier - knife in the back from her superior.

So when we get this character in a free environment, what does she do? Zip. She probably could have been replaced with a doll for the regular days of school (pre-world ending) and nobody would be the wiser. And I think this is part of the series' intention when they play around with such specialized characters: they just don't function normally. Ikusaba just doesn't make sense in a regular world. She basically has no interests and the few things she does like she doesn't act on; she has such strong feelings for Naegi that it's basically clear as day to her sister. But the most she does is stare from a distance. We know from this that she's got normal likes and dislikes, even if she doesn't understand them all that well. But she never voices any of it or acts on it. The closest thing we ever see to her chasing after something is just focusing on Naegi all the time in photos or asking some pointed questions to Naegi at the end of School mode. Part of IF seems to focus on her developing this sense of desire and want. She ends off with with a plan and dreams moving forward.

Having not read IF, I can't comment on her true demeanour. I will say she did a good job as the fashionista in the game, if only outside of side event stuff. From a purely narrative perspective, I didn't suspect she was a double agent until I was told so. But that does beg a question.

Why did she kick the Monokuma robot? Considering that Mondo already got the one free exemption from punishment for doing so, and everyone was there to see it, she should have known she was putting herself at risk. I guess because the guy behind the bear was her sister she was expecting the rules would be bent for her, but I dunno. That moment is where Monokuma basically says, "I'm not fucking around anymore", which is what makes the horror aspect of the game work, but I don't buy that trained soldier Mukuro wouldn't be aware of the rules laid out in the game. Why wouldn't she wait for someone else to get pissed off enough to unleash Gungnir? Why did Mukuro specifically step up? I'm not sure.

I believe IF answers your question. Spoilers for DR IF

[S] 
Confession time: I never actually finished Zero or IF, where Mukuro is more prominent compared to the actual game. I read the first half of IF and then my interest sorta petered out from there, and I ended up reading a summary of Zero opposed to the actual thing.

I do like how School Mode shows how awful she was at pretending to be Junko backing Junko's reason for killing her, casually mentioning proficiency with throwing knives and what not.

Also good timing, Danganronpa 2 was just released on Steam today which comes along with IF!

Don't worry, people are coming out of the woodwork to tell you all about her

[S] 
By the time this is done I'll have learned more about Mukuro from second hand sources than the actual game.

She's one I'm pretty conflicted on. On the one hand, she did actively help Junko betray, imprison and brainwash her friends with intent to start a killing game (including the boy she cared for).

On the other, we have seen that Junko seems to have some kind of power of breaking down others to turn them into crazed killers. Indeed she constantly heaps verbal abuse on Mukuro that Mukuro just stands there and accepts.

Then again, in the What If side story after Junko's attempted murder Mukuro was pretty quick to act to save Naegi, even though that clearly wouldn't be something her sister would care about, and fought her way to get them out of the school. From what we saw of people experiencing Despair, that doesn't sound like how they responded (of course that brings up the question of how much some people in Ultra Despair Girls were acting under it).

So was Mukuro under the same influence the Remnants of Despair were? Was she just an introvert with incredible physical capabilities that was bullied by her clever sister? How much culpability does she have for her actions?

I remember reading that people have a hard time understanding why Stalin could order executions of thousands of people and then go watch cheap American comedy at night. The game falls under the same fallacy of needing to find a rationalization for evil, for a lack of better term. It's probably related to the fact that too many people confuse 'villain with depth' with 'villain with a sob story', and you're never supposed to emphasize with the villain in either case assuming the villain committed significant crimes.

Mukuro is the closest thing to a boss in DR. She's physically incredibly powerful. She basically feels like a surreal FPS boss with godmode. She actually has significant body counts attributed to her skills, as opposed to Junko "I somehow talked a bunch of people into killing themselves even though there's nothing special about anything I said in the actual game." Mukuro joined the Fenrir on her own, and in fact I recall Junko was displeased that Mukuro just ran off to join a random military group for a few years. From all her available information we can get that she most certainly didn't do it because she needed the fame/money or that she believed in their cause. You don't become the Ultimate Soldier if you're bothered by things like killing people.

Now, just because Mukuro doesn't care about killing people, doesn't mean she's a monster with no feelings. It's perfectly fine that she feels attached to certain members of the cast, and it's even fine that she secretly bails out Makoto all this time because she's got a crush on him. There is no need for her actions to redeem herself. Given that the cast has no problem accepting someone like Genocide Jill who is actually a monster, I don't even see why Mukuro needs any justification for what she does.

Except the circumstances are rather different here from Stalin (also he never sent his TV shows to a gulag). We have clear evidence from the games that Junko is capable of compelling people to do twisted things that they would find completely unthinkable otherwise, but what is less clear is whether or not Mukuro was one of the people under the control of Despair (for lack of a better word) or whether the Mukuro met in the game is basically the same person as the Mukuro from before she returned to Junko's side.

Is it a matter of Mukuro being like DR 2 Mega Spoiler just more subdued, or was she always this was? The latter, I feel, has more culpability than the former.

There are a lot of dark characters in DR, and the game seems to conveniently just say 'Junko manipulated them' to try to redeem them, even though they don't need to be redeemed in the first place. There's no way Mukuro isn't a ruthless killer or she couldn't have earned her title in the first place, and that doesn't even matter in a world where Genocide Jill gets to walk around freely instead of shot on sight.

If Mukuro was still in Fenrir and they took a mission to blow up Hope's Peak Academy, does that mean it's totally fine because she's not manipulated by anyone and doing it on her volition? Or does that make it worse? Honestly, all the attempt to justify her action is just finding an excuse for making Mukuro the player's waifu, and that's not even the worst example of it. Hina's shocking decision to murder everyone was glossed over the same way, because apparently if Sakura really couldn't take it anymore and committed suicide then it'd have been totally justified for Hina to murder everyone?

I'm with you on Hina.

But when were Mukuro's actions justified? Mukuro's legacy in DR1 is simply that she died a bad person who had done bad things, and was doing evil when she got killed. The game never pushed the idea that just because Junko pulled the strings Mukuro was some how innocent. Doing evil under orders/persuasion is still doing evil.

'IF' and 'School mode' are both hypotheticals, they show that Mukuro had some good in her and some potential to turn her life around as do most bad people, but at no point did she actually redeem herself in the true timeline and at no point were her actions justified.

So what we see is that she had some good in her but didn't use it. So she simply died a villain, nothing more.

And that's often the case in real life, given different circumstances or given more time, one might have turned their life around, but instead they simply died with a legacy of being a bad person.

I definitely call waifu bait on IF, but I don't see the actual game at any point saying that this person is not a bad person. At most it says this person could potentially have turned good but didn't.

Just because I like Mukuro doesn't mean I think her action are justified. I'm just saying that I don't judge characters by whether they're good or bad or whether they can be redeemed, because otherwise Hina is a terrible person that nobody should forgive as she pretty much went off the deep end over a series of event that could've happened without any manipulation. In particular I strongly dislike the 'Junko was behind this' because not counting cases where all evidences were manipulated to the point of being totally rigged, most of what happened is something that could've happened anyway in a slightly altered setting. Certainly Mukuro was capable of indiscriminate slaughter for basically no reason at all. That's why she joined Fenrir in the first place despite showing no loyalty to whatever ideology Fenrir stands for whatsoever.

I never got the impression that Fenrir is a legendary peacekeeping group so Mukuro starts out enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy as a war criminal. Since she didn't even try to hide that when she enrolled (all the info comes from her profile from school records) I see no reason why her classmates wouldn't know about it. After all no one seems to be bothered by Genocide Jill walking amongst them either. So I don't get why there's even an angle about not having friends or whatever because Genocide Jill turned out alright and she's considerable more reclusive than Mukuro ever was.

Sorry I caused a misunderstanding with poor phrasing! My mistake.

I said "When were mukuro's actions justified?" but what I really meant to ask was "when did the game attempt to justify or redeem Mukuro's acts?"

You suggested that the game says "junko manipulated them" to conveniently redeem the characters but I don't think that's the case, yes Junko influenced them but the game makes no apologies for Mukuro being in Fenrir, she starts out a war criminal and dies a war criminal and the game doesn't try to gloss over that and pretend she's a good person, all it does is show that she still has some feelings and personality besides just killing people

Well DR1's core game obviously didn't do much to justify her actions because Mukuro had next to no importance other than her dead body was useful as a prop. But the school mode and IF all had this angle of Mukuro being confused and so on, and there's obviously a considerable fandom that views it as such and that didn't happen if there was nothing to support it.

Even in DR1, Kyoko had a short blurb about how Mukuro was betrayed and killed. I can see Junko wondering why Kyoko is defending her sister who is a war criminal and probably would've killed Kyoko first had she lived since Kyoko was a significant threat to the plan and soundly beating Mukuro for the same guy in the past!

School mode just shows that she had doubts. Still evil, but with doubts.

Even taking IF as 100% canon, that shows that she could have turned good in the face of someone basically sacrificing his life for her. But at the end of the day that's not what happened, she didn't turn good and she did continue the plan to have a killing game.

Kyoko says she was betrayed but it's said as a neutral factual observation, its not her saying that there should be sympathy for Mukuro, she doesn't attempt to defend Mukuro at all.

The sum total of Mukuro's actual life was that of a criminal. A criminal with doubts but still a criminal. The game doesn't treat her as some poor girl who just got puppeteered by junko and the game doesn't wash away her moral culpability. If fans choose to see her that way then that's their call but nothing in the game, IF or School mode foists this idea on the player as an absolute truth.

The writers have left it entirely open to the player to see her as someone who was just evil (regardless of her trepidation) , or as someone who was evil by circumstance but could have turned out differently.

That open texture to each character is great. Its up to us to decide to choose whether to judge her on what she actually was or on what she could have been. The game (including IF) does not rule out the interpretation that she was just a shit person.

Just to be clear I do not think Mukuro's actions are ever justified. I find the game in general has a significant whitewashing tendency with the whole 'blame Junko/Monokuma for all our personal weaknesses' deal. While Mukuro is not as blatant as Hina, I'd argue that's just because she's not that important. The way she's mentioned is reminiscent of Sayaka, whom Kyoko mentioned as an aside at the end of chapter 1 that she probably cared for Makoto, even though that's stuff you can figure out from FTEs and it'd hardly seem like a noble act that Sayaka, knowing she was about to die, decides to help someone she actually liked!

This series has a tendency to try to nudge in the direction of 'it's not soandso's fault' and that's what I dislike the most when it comes to Mukuro. I think she says stuff like, "You have to die because no one can defy the will of Junko" in some of her supplemental novel stuff. Mukuro, you're the Ultimate Soldier and an invincible god of war. It's not anything new compared to what you've already done if you killed someone for personal reasons or no reason at all. Admit that you're a villain and go down fighting!

continue this thread

I read DR if, and even then I still don't get all the love for her. The only thing I know her for is dying early on in the game.

A random question I just thought about Mukuro. What's even the point of she posing as Junko? None of the students knew her or Junko at that point. We know Mukuro legitimately enrolled in Hope's Peak Academy using her real identity two years ago and she obviously got through two years just fine. Did Junko really thought Mukuro's going to pull an Oscar and fool everyone into thinking she's Junko? And what advantage does that get her when nobody actually knew how the real Junko would act anyway?

I guess you can say the Ultimate Soldier title sounds intimidating so the students might be wary of her, but the students don't have problem with Genocide Jill walking around after her identity was exposed. Mukuro's script was basically to act like an airhead, so if someone somehow eluded all the surveillance equipment in the school, they'll surely let an airhead be part of their super secret plan to overcome the Mastermind!

Well, Genocider didn't show up yet, so Junko doesn't really know how they would react to it. Better safe than sorry? The SHSL Soldier title does sound intimidating, but I think Junko said that she felt that it was a disgusting title or something, and since she doesn't want her own title to go to waste, she let Mukuro be the Model. I'm pretty sure Junko was messing around, making Mukuro do this, so that her sister would feel like she is acknowledging her and stuff, so that when she killed her, Mukuro would feel more despair, I guess. And when they would find out that 'Junko' was actually Mukuro and that Junko was the Mastermind, I guess it's more despair to both sides (mostly to Junko). Trying to completely understand Junko is futile.

Why do I love Mukuro, besides the obvious things everyone touched on? It's cuz it got Junko to say this line which absolutely sums up her character.

When questioned why she killed Mukuro, Junko says: "Dismal, dejected, despondent, dystopian, dreadful, depressive, dismayed, desolate, downcast despair...It's.... orgasmic..."

Really drilled the crazy in right then

Danganronpa..Where U Kill Ur Sister To Make A Mutual Killing Game

Character Discussion #21 - Hifumi Yamada (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Fanfic Creator

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

In charge of the trash room in Ch 1

Becomes infatuated with the AI Alter Ego, putting him at odds with Kiyotaka Ishimaru

Taken advantage of by Celestia Ludenberg, who manipulates and convinces Hifumi to murder Kiyotaka and frame Yasuhiro Hagakure

Is later betrayed and murdered by Celestia

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Fanfic Creator, Hifumi Yamada!

Hifumi is an interesting one. As odd as it sounds, I'm going to argue that his character led to Nekomaru from DR 2, as well as Gundham. Both have several character traits you can draw back to Hifumi. Now obviously, they barrow traits from other characters (Sakura, Celeste, Ishimaru, Asahina, etc), but Hifumi is also included in there, and I think part of the reason it isn't brought up that much in the fanbase is that Hifumi simply isn't as popular as some of these other characters. Specifically with Nekomaru, they have quite a bit in common.

Both get summoned by their killer (Celeste/Gundham) just before their murder and make an agreement with each other and end up getting killed. Granted, Nekomaru consented to the fight and it was done purely out of necessity, but same idea and setup. (Even the truth bullet of Nekomaru's radio clock is based on Ishimaru's broken watch in DR 1 Trial 3, only they rule out the possibility that it could be tampered with.)
Nekomaru's shit bit came from Hifumi, who would mention he took a long time using the bathroom a few points in the game.
Hifumi's free time events, despite being a very different topic, progress in a similar manner to Nekomaru's. Both of them start off with the protagonist asking them about their field and both Hifumi/Nekomaru get offended by the question the protagonist asks because they have a poor preconceived notion about it, followed by them explaining their works and it ending with wanting to work with the protagonist and share in their field. They also have similar things like explaining a few "legends" about themselves, measuring the potential in the protagonist, and so on.
There's also a weird event part where Hifumi goes through diet coke withdrawal, and I can see they got Fuyuhiko's FTE about him looking for fried dough cookies from it. Huh…
So lifted from Hifumi's FTEs, we get this:

"Before her, I didn't have a single friend. I was just a mild-mannered boy who liked to draw. I hurt everything I touched. I was a model young lad who fell to the dark side. For example! Sometimes a nicey-nice type girl would come try to talk to me, right? You know, be nice to the weird, dorky kid. And I'd scream at her, "You're such a hypocrite!" I'd just yell right in her face and make her cry. Man I loved doing that...But by total chance, I happened to catch an episode of Demon Angel Pretty Pudgy Princess one day. At first, I felt nothing but contempt for it. I thought it was just another magical girl anime. However...after that, she came to me in my dreams. I dreamed that I went on date with Princess Piggles. It was...so much fun. When I woke up and realized it was a dream, I got depressed. But I also realized...I was in love...Unfortunately, in the show itself, the princess never falls in love...So as much as I wanted to, I never got to see her face filled with love...so, filled to the brim with my overflowing affection for the princess, I decided to draw that face myself!"

Hifumi is a lot easier to read if you listen to him as you would Gundham. Gundham would always say one thing and you'd have to filter it out. "Demon beasts" means "animals" for example. Hifumi is the same way, just with his topic. He's both very passionate about it (hence where the Nekomaru is coming from) and also very much a lonely guy building walls (Gundham). Gundham would also say something to hide how he really feels, like how he'd say he has no time for childish beach play when he really wanted to be invited as well. Hell, even that princess is like the boy Nekomaru met in the hospital...just...much less inspiring and engaging.

"I was kinda starting to think about...just maybe...creating something original. It's actually been in the back of my mind the whole time I've been doing fanfic. Fanfic is amazing, don't get me wrong. It's a way to connect people to a shared dream, so to speak. But I think I have more to offer. I'm ready for the challenge of creating that dream myself! I was thinking...If I could create something that might save someone, the way the princess saved me...I want to create a masterpiece that will astound a mainstream audience!"

But Hiifumi also shares traits with that of Nekomaru in that he enjoys the warmth of a community and wants to be the one to bring together a group with a common interest and his fanfiction is his way of conveying that.

So why end up helping Celeste? What would motivate that? I feel it's also part of the reason Gundham is a bit clearer. His persona. With Gundham, he's aware of his evil overlord persona and uses it as a wall to push people away because of him being kind of a shy, lonely guy. He doesn't expect anyone to take it seriously, which is why he gets embarrassed when people still look past it or even take it seriously (hence any interaction with Sonia). In Hifumi's case, they don't really make it clear when or if he's joking around or being serious. He does act the same way, but he does respect his classmates, given the honorifics he uses in the original Japanese version. Hifumi defines everything through his fictional universe standards, and while he's very well versed in that respect, it obviously wouldn't translate well in reality.

But he does have a passion, which is why Alter Ego, this breakthrough technology and closest thing to a living fictional world he'd ever get to see, hits him so hard. That's the equivalent of Gundham's "Sonia" to him. Someone who listens to him and takes him seriously. In Gundham's case, he doesn't expect others to take his persona seriously and instead tries to stay lonely out of fear, while Sonia reaches out because she genuinely respects him and also understands what it's like to be isolated so much (go check out her profile thingy on that). So that runs in conflict with Ishimaru, who now sees his brother giving him advice from beyond the grave. Alter Ego is pretty much a hope spot for everyone, albeit for different reasons. In the most direct sense, alter ego is gathering files and information for everyone to assist in escaping, but some people in the group see him as a means of emotional support, and few have more than Hifumi.

That's also how the deal with Celeste starts to take off. She did seem to interact with him since there photos of their hope's peak time together. It would suggest maybe that she'd let down her guard and discuss some of the gambling manga she keeps referencing with him, even though he'd occasionally frustrate her other from time to time. However, Hifumi doesn't read celeste very well in the main game. I think he interprets her behavior as her just being Tsundere toward him. After all, he defines the world in relation to his fictional world.

But Celeste makes use of that. She creates a situation where he can be the hero, where he can finally project his fictional world somewhere. It involves having to indirectly kill everyone, but he's too attached in having a friend to actually care. Celeste lies and suggests that she was raped by Ishimaru and that he has kidnapped Princess Alter Ego. She knows that she can best recruit him if he can play the role of the hero. (Notice how Gundham plays the role of the villain everyone needs to beat when he doesn't confess to the trial to get everyone to be more active in not surrendering their lives and how he urges them to deliver the final blow once he's been caught?)

Hifumi can be the hero of this fantasy now, crush Celeste's rapist like he deserves, and rescue the princess that has been supporting him through all of this. He acted out of misguided love exploited by Celeste so much that he fell for the exact same trick they used in their murder plan with the camera.

So why so unpopular? For one, he was a victim and took part in a largely unnecessary crime. Gundham and Nekomaru had the benefit of a much bigger situation, and whatever you think of their actions, there was no question they acted out of necessity. The other thing is that Hifumi is so engrossed in his world that you don't get to see the contrast of him shifting in and out of his fictional persona the way you do with the other "hiding" characters. You just see a bunch of references and he comes off as a weird guy, but it doesn't tell you much about his character.

"It's my duty to create a product that will satisfy the brave fans who suffer for their passion!"-Hifumi chapter 1

"Well, it's my duty to support my athletes after all."-Nekomaru, FTEs

It's coming together nicely.

http://imgur.com/a/yCHug [translation by SHSLscans on tumblr] - This manga about Yamada is actually one of my favorites in the 1 2 Comic Anthology (involving the first game's cast). I don't know, when I played through the first game I didn't feel so bad that I wanted to cry when he died, but I actually appreciated his last words. Other than pointing out the killer, he said something along the lines of 'meeting everyone before meeting everyone', and I think that's meant to show that he is a character who thinks about his friends a lot, and I believe in one of his free time events he says he 'will not stand for indecent crimes against those he holds in deep regard and will even go so far to kill the person to stop them from doing any more harm and avenge his friends' (this is from his page in the wiki, by the way, so I don't know if it's true or not; I've never played his Free time events yet).

Even though there are a lot of people in Danganronpa who value their friends, I just want to say that Yamada is among those people.

Oh my god that comic is adorable

I know right

I don't really care much for Hifumi... not that it's because he's made to be unattractive, unlikeable, and pretty much a walking "lolol fat nerd" gag, I don't really mind that. It's just that... I found him to be incredibly boring. I'm afraid to explain exactly why I found him boring, because I feel like a lot of my favorite characters share the same traits. Maybe it's because of all those traits combined in a certain way with his character that just doesn't appeal to me. It's not that I hate him, I can't bring myself to hate any of the characters, he's just... very close to the bottom. I'll give him this though, I really liked the twists involving him in the third chapter, so while I don't like the character himself that much, I can at least appreciate the role he played in the story. Those same twists are what saved him from being at the VERY bottom above Yasuhiro, but I missed his discussion and I really don't want to go into detail here. Basically he's just as boring and didn't even contribute that much to the story like Hifumi did.

[S]You know Hiro's some real garbage when he's even lower than Hifumi, the stereotype otaku.

Like I said, my main problem with these characters is that they're boring. Hifumi at least contributed to the story in a way that was interesting. Hiro offered nothing.

Let me preface this by saying that even though I'm fixing to flex my critic skills on Youtube in the coming months in a big way, one of the things I've had to put to bed early on is, for as much as I adore it, it is unlikely Danganronpa will ever be that critical darling. Not through any fault of its own, but it definitely has many core elements that seem very stand-off-ish at first sight. Certainly, some of these kept me at arm's length for a while. The concept every character being an Ultimate Whatever, the villain being a teddy bear, the distinctive yet kinda repetitive art style, and so on. Not exactly design choices that would put it in the same league as such critically acclaimed classics as Bioshock Infinite. Heh.

Well, I mention this because I feel like Hifumi was designed to be a lightning rod for all of the criticism directed towards the franchise. He was designed and written with low-brow humour, anime tropes and the general anime outlook of otaku culture in mind, and when you add all that up, you have a shallow, thoroughly unlikeable character with no real redeeming qualities. Every character in DR feels like they have some measure of dimension to them that unfolds over the course of the game, including Makoto. Everyone except for Hifumi. He starts the game as a lecherous, obsessive guy with no idea of proper social convention, and that's how he ends the game.

I even double-checked the wiki to see if his FTEs held more that wasn't communicated over the course of the main game, and I couldn't find anything tangible. Hifumi is simply the most WYSIWYG character of the game, perhaps the series, and this approach baffles me because he stands out against every other student in the worst way. What could the writers stand to gain by having a character with few manners, except to girls whom he holds a more ickily chivalrous attitude, be a mainstay of the game for as long as he is? Even Toko's self-deprecation doesn't get as annoying as Hifumi's perversion, and at least Teruteru was an equal opportunist pervert.

The only place where this really pays off is when he's misled by Celeste into being an accomplice for murder. More cynical players might deem this a plot hole because Monokuma said in no uncertain terms in Chapter 1 that only one person could leave even if an accomplice was involved, but I can accept that Hifumi wouldn't think that far ahead because he was that taken by Celeste. He was attracted to her, and combined with her lying about Taka's attempt on her, his impulses would have screamed to do what she desired. Crude as it may seem, it was a good way for Celeste to twist his social views to her advantage.

Otherwise...I dunno. It's just weird. Every character is more than their title and visual design would have you believe, but one look at Hifumi tells you everything you need to know. Whether fanfiction writer or doujin writer, he's the "fat otaku" and he makes all the obvious sex jokes of the game. If they had just given him a little more, maybe some justification on his part of why he views everything the way he does, even if you had to work for it, it might have made him worth something. He didn't have to be likeable, but he had to have a backstory, and because he doesn't, he's just a shell of a cliché that should have died many years ago.

I liked his vocal performance in the anime, though.

I think Hifumi is def a big sweetheart whose just really lonely. It does upset me that he gets a lot less screen time than other characters, and when he does, he contributes almost nothing. But, I adore his Free-Time events. He's just an outcast who found his passion and went with it. Idk I just love Hifumi a lot lmao.

[S]I have a massive unjustified bias towards the more cartoon-y designed characters in these games. I can't take any of them seriously, and so far none of them have had a worthwhile personality either. Don't like Hifumi, don't like Teruteru, hoping the third game can change my mind with the midget but I'm not holding my breath.

Hifumi got a surprising amount of focus in Ch 3 however, I mentioned this before in Taka's but he takes center stage for the victims and Taka is just sidelined, which hurts even more.

Also Hifumi's faces in Climax Inference were terrifying.

I personally feel he should have died earlier. I thought Chapter 3 as a whole was a mess.

Hifumi's obsession with 2D is amusing because that's still one dimension more than he ever shows.

I got a laugh out of some of his lines but that's about the only positive thing I can say about him.

If DR had multiple scenarios maybe it'd have made sense to explore the character, but it did not. There shouldn't be an equal screen time opportunity when far more interesting and better looking characters are killed off quickly before you find out anything about them. There's nothing particularly wrong with Hifumi, but he's just not someone that I care about compared to others.

I know Hifumi's not a bad guy really, but... He's a pervert, and he can be quite mean to people, and if he really knew Celeste's real name, why would he not just say Celeste? Did he really care more about being formal than his friends surviving? Or was it just luck that Celeste's real name was Yasuhiro? I'm convinced Hifumi was still working with eleste till the very end...

I feel like the personality he is given is one that a lot of people just ignore because we all know someone like him and it's the only way to interact with them without going mad. He's a person who puts way too much of his personality into what he likes, and never shuts up about it. Some of us may even be the same way, making it kind of ironic that he's one of the most hated characters in Danganronpa.

He tries to introduce Naegi to various characters from his animes and mangas, but it's obvious that Naegi, much like the player, has little idea what he's referencing and trying to push. He even does this if you do none of his free time events, arguably making him one of about four characters who try to make friends with Naegi without him coming to them first (the others being Maizono, Kirigiri, and Hagakure, though that last one is a bit tenuous).

His relationship with Celes (or more accurately, servitude) seems to be some kind of wish fulfillment, parodying a relationship trope. It seems almost like a deconstruction, given that the other students can obviously tell it's a pretty abusive relationship. Her later decision to take advantage of his sense of chivalry was the main reason Ishimaru died, and her betrayal was one that a more perceptive student probably would've seen coming.

His obsession with "2D women" is probably where the sticking point it (ew, no, I meant that metaphorically). However, it could be considered a bit sad. He's given up on having a relationship with a real girl, likely because of his strange appearance (even if it's only in his head), and has decided to preemptively reject them. Can't have them turn you down if you never ask. But Alter ego accepts everyone, and is perfectly willing to indulge his fantasies. It's little surprise he became a bit too attached, even if AE is just a computer.

Character Discussion #22 - Jataro Kemuri (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Li'l Ultimate Art

Game: Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Second to hunt Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa

One to mention and bring up the influence of Junko Enoshima on the Warriors of Hope

Defeated and seemingly killed, however shown to be alive with the other Warriors of Hope in an endgame CG

Discuss anything pertaining the Li'l Ultimate Art, Jataro Kemuri!

I see it once again falls to me, the guy who does alternate character interpretations to bring this guy out of the pit of apathy.

Jataro's own mother hated him, and he fully internalized it, basing his entire outlook on the world on that loathing. He acts as though he deserves nothing but contempt, and that seems to be what he's given. Even the other warriors of hope found that treating him like scum of the earth is an easier way to spend time with him than trying to actually act like he's a friend. One can only imagine how many times they've tried to talk to him normally and he's insisted that he's lower than dirt before they stopped trying. Even when he's gone, Kotoko keeps saying she hates him despite obviously being a bit concerned for his well-being.

With no mention of a father, I can only assume his mother slept with someone she shouldn't have, and the resulting pregnancy and child were continual reminders of her mistake. Jataro probably looks a lot like his father, hence his mother forcing him to wear the mask he never removes despite his appearance lacking any horrific scars or features that would warrant such a thing.

Like Masaru, I don't know if he deserved to survive or not. Masaru killed just as many as Jataro, if not more, but at least he didn't tack them up in a sick display. I suppose this might be the test of forgiveness, how egregious can their crimes be and still be forgiven if they turn back on their old ways? With Ultimate despair it was easy enough, they weren't the same people they were when they did the crimes so why should they be punished for it?

However, the warriors of hope can only be assumed to have turned away from being murder-crazy. We don't know for sure that they're different people, only that they're not being actively pushed toward killing thousands. The only evidence that they are changing their ways is Kotoko and Nagisa helping Komaru. Is that enough? Makoto would probably say so, he'd forgive just about anything, but would we?

I don't really have much to say because I don't really care about the warriors of hope. I'll just make the obligatory thing we're all thinking. More OH LOOK, ABUSED KIDS. EDGY ENOUGH YET?

He's got a face not even a mother can love.

Personally liked this kid a lot, found him just the right kind of weird to be likable, but not creepy. Warriors of Hope in general are kinda lame both in concept and practice, but he had an interesting design and enough interactions with Komaru and Toko to warrant being better than Masaru, who literally appears out of nowhere and leaves no impression on me what so ever

The way he speaks really bothers me. Like it's just..... so...... slow.

Heard of Plutia?

I'm almost afraid to ask XD

He and Masaru are kind of my sort of...I don't want to say 'least favourite', so much as they were "just there" for me. Nagisa, Kotoko, and Monaca were more notable characters than they were, and I thought Nagito and Kurokuma (yeah yeah, I actually kind of enjoyed him) were a bit more entertaining.

That being said, I'll give Michelle Ruff credit for changing her voice up so much for him. I would've never guessed he was voiced by the same person who voiced Yukari if I hadn't looked it up.

Waiting on Jataro to finish a sentence like

[S]... He has the same relevance of Masaru? I guess? Which isn't much.

At least he actually shows up and talks to Komaru and friends before being beaten. I'm surprised Toko and him didn't have some self-pity competition though, all things considered.

I guess his trauma sort of makes less sense to me, if his parents didn't want a child so much and hated his very existence why go through with the pregnancy, adoption, etc. I mean it doesn't make them less awful people but why inflict the trauma on the kid as well.

Jotaro Kujo is the best character in the show.

He's da best.

One of the Warriors of Hope I enjoy more, I always have a soft spot for the abused lonely characters though so that's probably why, and I'm a sucker for Masked characters as well. What can I say, I'm a fan of tropes.

I give credits to the English VA since I think it's fantastically fitting and plays up that creepy/weird side of him.

The face under that mask needs no explanation.

Personally I would say he's the nastiest of the Warriors Of Hope (Monaka excluded) as his parents despised him so much that he goes out of his way to purposely make people hate him and unlike Masaru, Kotoko and Nagisa he never has a mental breakdown.

What I like most about this character is from more of a story point of view as he's the first one to confirm that the Warriors Of Hope are indeed connected to Junko but not only that, it gives us perspective from people that sided with Junko. How Jataro considers Junko a "hero" and the "adults" that labelled her a "villain" are the most vile people that should of died instead of her.

Second cutest boy in Danganronpa, after Fujisaki of course.

Character Discussion #23 - Nagisa Shingetsu (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Li'l Ultimate Social Studies

Game: Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Believes in the Children's Paradise the most, promoted to Leader of the Warriors of Hope upon Masaru's death

Attempts to lead Komaru out of the city and free her Ch 3-4

Discovers Monaca has a different vision than the Warriors of Hope

Attacks Komaru Toko and Haiji at the end of Ch 4 upon discovering the secret weapon

Defeated and seemingly killed, however shown to be alive with the other Warriors of Hope in an endgame CG

Discuss anything pertaining the Li'l Ultimate Social Studies, Nagisa Shingetsu!

Ah yes, from what I've seen, he's probably one of the most popular characters from AE, apart from the protagonist duo and maybe Kotoko.

Nagisa seems to be less affected by his abuse than others of the Warriors of Hope, though it still takes a toll on him. The thing that ends up breaking him is Monaca implying he's not capable of handling the pressures of the jobs she gives him, though the forced kiss certainly didn't help. While his precocious demeanor may be related, I think it's likely he's a diligent person to begin with, given the kind of people his parents seem to be.

However, forcing him to toil away for days on end with no sleep isn't great for mental or physical health, and while Nagisa seems to be the most mature of the warriors of hope, his mind isn't exactly in the right place either. He believes in the "children's paradise" almost unerringly despite the fact that more examination than none would show it's not a long term solution. He brings Komaru to a stairway out of the city which appears to be sized for a raccoon. He tries to kill the big bang Monokuma with a sniper robot as opposed to bringing any sort of explosives, despite ostensibly knowing what he'd be facing. It may be that he's still just a child even with his serious demeanor, but

As for his personality, Nagisa plays a very straight-laced game. He doesn't lie or cheat, and when he says something is true, it's because it is true (as far as he knows). He seems like the obvious choice for leader, being the smartest of the lot apart from Monaca herself, but his "leadership" is minimalistic, involving almost no orders and barely even carrying the title of leader. By his actions, he seems to be more of a diplomat, his most important contribution storywise being his assistance to Komaru in finding a way out of the city as an alternative to fighting them.

Did he even participate in the killing game? If he did he didn't show off his victims or brag about his murdering like Masaru and Jataro kids, but Nagisa seems more like the type to keep his hands clean (at least until the end when Monaca drives him crazy). Even in the picture of their first murder, it's Masaru and Jataro doing the actual killing with the others looking on in horror...

I doubt it was about keeping his hands clean, I think it was stated all the Warriors of Hope killed their own parents, just that he seems like the type that everything he does, he does with a goal in mind so we don't see him killing frivolously as much.

I meant "keep his hands clean" more like he doesn't like participating in the killing than that he's never done it. Still, good point, none of the kids are innocent even if they are sympathetic.

I figured Monaca was the one who did everything with purpose (though nothing says they can't both be like that), while Nagisa wanted to get things done quickly and relatively painlessly, but was hampered by his comrades and their craziness.

Nagisa Shingetsu is my favourite.
Also I realize it probably wouldn't fit with what the angle they tried to push really hard with the Warriors, but damnit at least gimme a semi genuine happy Shingetsu sprite, I can do without the demon smiles.

Now have some feel good fan art for the group.
Sauces in order: 1 2 3 4 5 6

He's probably the only kid out of everyone in the Warriors of Hope who I not only felt sorry for, but felt I had an understanding for. That is difficult to do when these kids are killing as many adults as possible. The other kids I felt sorry for, but I felt like I had a more difficult time understanding their mindsets and back stories. Kotoko actually probably had a more in-depth back story, but Nagisa's character development was better executed. He seemed to be more three-dimensional and not just crazy and brainwashed. He actually questioned whether he was doing the right thing, and the game showed how Monica deeply influenced and hurt him.

I think this WoH that made me realize how annoying them constantly saying "demons" is. I get that they're kids and they're trying to get that fact across, but because they just sub in a word or two, it comes off more like they're trying to write for Gundham and use the words as filters for other words rather than convincingly writing the way a child would speak. It's how Gundham replaces the word "animals" with "demon beasts," so I have a harder time buying that they're abused kids more than it sounds like Gundham minus the chunni angle, which sounds...weird.

He's my favorite, I guess? I guess I really have a thing for chapter 4 characters in Danganronpa games, but I still don't have much to say. I'll have a few choice words for Monaca and Kotoko, but that's about it.

I don't think it's to show their childishness, I assumed the "demons" thing was the kids rationalizing their mass murdering by saying they weren't killing people, they were killing "demons"...

It's a part of both. The adults are the bad people, but either way, it got really annoying to me to have to constantly hear it.

Well, Gundham used "demon beasts" or whatever as a way to make himself sound cooler, at least in his own mind. The Warriors of Hope very clearly did it as a distancing method, to keep themselves from actively thinking about how they're killing people.

Nagisa probably brought this to the fore because he's the one that believes it the least. It's also very interesting that the traits he displays are what people would consider the most "adult" in terms of maturity.

Also of note is that unlike the rest of the classes that the Warriors of Hope play, Nagisa is an advanced class; that is to say, in Dragon Warrior III, you can obtain a Mage, a Fighter, and a Priest from the start of the game, and you're obligated to have a Hero. But a Sage has to be converted from another class using the Book of Satori. Possibly an allusion to how Nagisa was made who he was by years of study by his parents? The way he wants to help found a new society different from what he came from may allude to the fact that he originally was a Merchant, personality-wise. Certainly fits in with his pragmatic, cost/benefit analysis of letting Komaru escape.

I'm not arguing the reason they did it, I'm just saying from a writing standpoint, it's just kind of grating to constantly have to hear "demons." I get that they're kids and they have a coping/distancing method to justify their actions, but it still didn't sell it for me with how hard the game was trying to be edgy with child abuse.

[S] 
Rounding off the two minor characters this week is Nagisa, though he's one of the more developed Warriors of Hope.

Though with Masaru and Jataro surviving their executions I could sort of buy, maybe in that crowd they managed to slip out or who knows, but Shingetsu had a robot arm fall on him. Even if the eye socket fell over Nagisa so he wasn't immediately squashed, the arm immediately explodes.

Nagisa human tank confirmed.

He probably got pumped full of so many drugs when he was younger that he just walked it off :P

[S]Then we just need to continue to the next logical step: Cyborg Nagisa

Nagisa is probably the most complex of the WoH. He guninely believes in his vision of a kids-only utopia to the point he winningly blind himself to Monaka's manipulations and his obsession for people to always expect more from him even if those are imaginary and only he thinks that.

He seem to be the most "rational" of the group, even going so far as to question why they're so fixated on the game instead of building paradise. He was the one I was hoping throughout the game would see through Monaka's deception and turn on her and he almost does, acting like GLADOS from Portal where he just wants Komaru gone before Monaka causes him to have a severe mental breakdown.

But really, all the WoH are one massive tragic tale then Junko came along and screwed them up even more.

Character Discussion #24 - Sayaka Maizono (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Pop Sensation

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc

Status: First Blood

Notable Roles:

Went to same Middle School as Makoto Naegi

Tags along with Makoto and bond during Chapter 1

Fearing for her life requests a room switch with Makoto

First victim in the Mutual Killing games

Intended to actually be the first murderer in the games, turned on in the fight and slain

Set up of murder plan believed to have been meant to frame Makoto, but Kyoko Kirigiri suggests that she still cared about Makoto

Discuss anything pertaining Ultimate Pop Sensation, Sayaka Maizono!

Call me gullible about the whole thing, but it took me fairly by surprise. I really didn't know much at all about the franchise besides the very general premise (and slight confusion about all the Junko cosplayers when she "died" early on), so I really didn't know what to expect when it came to the tone and plot threads. The entire first chapter really gripped me, not just her being the victim when so much time was dedicated to setting her up as a love interest, but revealing that she actually planned the first murder and got killed in retaliation/accident (depending on the canonicity of the manga). I'm not super huge on the fact that she was basically a plot device to kick-start the story, but it was done in a way that really kept me in for the rest of the game.

The fucking tutorial of the says "hey maybe ypu should hang out with her " even the tutorial did a good job in setting the tone of the game, whoever character that is they have a chance to die except Kyoko

Actually, I totally thought Kyoko was gonna die in the last case. The stakes were a lot higher in SDR2 but I still had some doubts about the DR1 cast.

At the end of the game when she said she was the Ultimate Detective I was like "yeah, no shit sherlock", I actually wanted her to be caled the Ultimate Plot Armor because she literally say "if I die, y'all gonna be bitches and the game won't continue "

More like Ultimate Waifu amirite bois? don't you dare talk shit about my girl

heh K

I totally agree, I had the same feeling. Killing the first character you get attached set up the perfect mood for the "normal" school life that awaits ypu.

It was definitely a "Game of Thrones" moment that kinda showed no one was really safe, if the Designated Love Interest was the first person to go. also happy cake day

Honestly, Sayaka felt like a 'Maya Fey' kind of character to me. The fact that she kept calling herself your assistant, as well as the constant speak of psychic powers made it seem almost certain that she would be your investigation buddy throughout the entire game.

Her death was absolutely shocking.

I absolutely love Sayaka. Definitely a favorite of mine because I love how open-ended she is. There are so many possibilities about her motives, but in the end, we really don't know what Sayaka was thinking. She's, imho, such a beautifully developed character given the short amount of screen-time she was given compared to the other characters. The writers def took the smarter route with her character. Instead of being the typical love interest, she was manipulative and deceitful. But, at the same time, I honestly believe Sayaka is a good person. She's kind, patient, and understanding. Mixed with the puppetmaster quirks of hers, she's a really morally grey character. She wasn't truly a "good guy" like Kyouko or Makoto, but she wasn't a straight up villain like Junko. And I think she's unique in that sense. Of course, in my perfect world, I would've preferred if Sayaka lived longer because I absolutely adored her, even when I found out she tried to frame Makoto. Getting into her shoes, one can see that Sayaka was a frightened teenager who was scared for her life. She wasn't physically imposing like Sakura, and had no real means of defending herself in the Mutual Killing Game. In her head, I think she thought she was an easy victim. So she decides she's NOT going to be a victim. She chooses her own future, no matter how twisted it may be. It can be seen as selfish, but I see it as self-preservation. Idk. I just adore Sayaka and love how open-ended she is. Really unique imo.

[S]I think the creators intended her to be the bait and switch main girl in a sense for DR, but honestly the only times I've ever seen a really obvious and attached main girl are in shoddy mangas more about the "plot" than plot.

Otherwise seemed pretty obvious first victim bait with the background exposition and massive exposure compared to everyone else, I was starting to think that maybe DR really would just pull the rug from under me and make her live the entire thing so Makoto could get his popstar love interest.

Well he ended up getting the emotionless purple god tier detectivee , not sure if much of an upgrade

Wow, it was that obvious? I thought she was going to die later or end up being a big traitor. I did not expect her to be the first to die. I thought she would stay alive long to get some interesting character development.

[S] 
Well it has been a few years so maybe hindsight 20/20 but thinking back I did feel it was incredibly obvious, they kept to a similar pattern for DR2 as well. If you have major prominence in an early chapter 50/50 you're important or you're dead.

I think she did get some interesting development post mortem, the discovery at her framing of Makoto elevated her from boring generic ditzy love interest.

It was the first time I was watching DR and I thought that she's too likable, she'll never die. Neither will Leon. It'll be Hifumi or Celeste or Sakura. These games shaped me.

I see you've changed your flair, I guess all these arguments got to you :P

[S]Nah, I just thought it'd look nice if my flair matched the character of the week, since I post 'em so my flair is always besides it. Though I'm honestly quite surprised that the most discussed character so far would be Sayaka, I didn't really think anyone would overtake Hajime but here we are. (It'd be sort of hilarious if someone who never played DR looked at the amount of comments for these threads and assumed that Sayaka was indeed the main girl who'd survive till the end only to get slapped in the face once they start playing)

Once I'm done with these it's back to repping best low-profile character, Sakura, or whatever DR3/V3 characters if it's out/flairs exist and I find myself to take a liking.

It'll be even funnier if she gets overtaken by one of the other first-chapter characters, and Leon, Twogami, or Teruteru ends up as the most discussed student...

Not sure I'd entirely judge it by amount of comments, since I'm semi-shitposting here and inflating that count.

Go by which character discussion has the best and most indepth analysis! ;D

Although, I am enjoying the community response to her.

In that case it might be Mukuro, she had the most long responses from what I saw, though I didn't read all of them to find out if they were in-depth

I think this is the point of view after playing the games. When you first start a game you dont expect her to die as many games have co-op characters. Now, after playing both games Im replaying DR1 again and it is pretty obvious but I dont think a newcomer would think the same (Maybe its just me that im so naive) Also the plot twist about her trying to be the first killer is pretty cool but althought she still cared about you in the 'end' I will always think her of being a little bitch.

[S] 
Like I said potentially hindsight 20/20, but I think when she starts talking about her family life when you retrieve the sword is when it moved from "development of main girl" to "obvious first victim".

Well, maybe it is because I dont think too much about these things on the moment so I didnt realize that.A weapon for self defense seems legit, in the second game peko has always a sword on his back for example.

[S] 
It wasn't really the weapon part but the exposition bit that made me believe it, just referencing the scene when it happened.

Also Peko's sword was part of her talent anyways so it wasn't out of place.

It's obvious she was going to die if you knew the game was linear because it's pretty clear that to get enough people killed to get the game moving they basically can't waste development time on anyone who isn't about to die. I was under the impression this is like a dating sim where you might have some say on who actually survives so I figure it's one of those 'anybody under +X affection point dies first' deal.

It was very clear what her role was. Her previous relationship with Makoto, looks, and personality were all created to cause the player to immerse themselves in the story. I do like her role in the story a lot though. She demonstrates very early on that trusting other people is very dangerous.

I mean, someone had to die first, maybe it was a good thing it was her first. I don't think she would have mentally been able to go through killing game. She was spared the despair and the pain of doubting classmates....which one can argue is one of the better ways to go in a killing game such as this.

I really wish we knew what she was thinking while she was in the bathroom...She was the only murder victim that knew she was going to die. Those last moments would have truly defined her character, and the only thing we have is the dying message she supposedly left for Makoto. I agree with Kyoko and am sure that she regretted her decision and thought of Makoto until the very end.

Her death also sparked the relationship partnership between Kyoko and Makoto, which lead to the eventual defeat of the mastermind.

Naegiri is the OTP and we all know it

I've always been a little curious of this section of the wiki:

http://danganronpa.wikia.com/wiki/Sayaka_Maizono#Creation_and_development

It mentions that she was only killed off, because the developers got tired of her and Leon, them being the base characters for each gender. Not that there's any sources to prove this that I know of.

I am actually curious about that as well. Apparently, Kyoko was originally supposed to die (I get nightmares thinking about this) instead of Sayaka.

I wonder what direction that would have taken the story. It would have been interesting to see how Sayaka 's character would have developed and how much she would have contributed to the group.

I think I'd wait for a bit of evidence, before accepting it as fact.

But lord, what I wouldn't give for that to be true. I do think they could have done good things with her character.

Kyoko died for the Beta, Hiro died for the Demo, although that was after they decided it'd be Sayaka.

I suppose you could say Kyoko really lucked out, she gets to be in three games, and play major roles. Not even Sayaka's sister got to see the light of day.

[S]That luck may be running out in DR3, depending on how much plot armor people believe the surviving cast have.

If the traitor doesn't kill the former Super Ultimate High School Level Person Duper Detective, they're completely idiotic. (Or Makoto.)

Something tells me there's more to the Future Arc's plot than simply "Kill the people most capable of solving the mystery and see if the rest can survive".

Agh fuck don't remind me.

Then again, we all thought SDR2 was gonna be even more painful, but as it turns out everybody is maybe okay... I think they'll go soft on us for the finale.

It's said so in the staff text for Leon's beta design. As said by Rui Komatsuzaki, the series artist: The first character designed, even prior to the protagonist, and served as the basic model for the game's male characters (Sayaka Maizono was the base female character). That's why he features a more standard body type, and a height of 175cm (rubber-soled shoes included). As for special characteristics, that would probably be the goatee. I'm a fan of the punk genre myself, so I designed his outfit with details I personally like. Since we turned back to his and Maizono-san's designs consistently from the very early design stages, we grew tired of them and they ended up the first characters to go in the actual game. That is truly a sad existence.

Aww. Now I'm sad :C

That really is a sad existence.

Oh well, can't have everything that I want.

Assuming Sayaka didn't suffer a nervous breakdown from not knowing what happened to her band, it's actually pretty easy for her to survive. She's supposed to be great at reading people, and once the rules come out you basically can't possibly die if you're in a group of 3 (assuming all 3 are trustworthy) and she should be quite capable of finding another person besides Makoto that is absolutely trustworthy.

Celeste basically did the same thing which is why she had to go in the same way. Also note that it's clear that something like hanging out by the dining hall and simply attack the last person returning to their room for some reason doesn't work, even though with the sound proof rooms this is far safer than what people actually did. For whatever reason, chance encounters with a murderer isn't an issue in DR. Chihiro is perfectly fine with walking around at the middle of the night alone even though anybody could've overpowered him and killed him.

I was going to write this in advance, but the day's here, so here's my spiel.

Sayaka Maizono is my favorite character from the first game.

At first, I had no real opinion of her. She was kinda clingy, and then whoop, she was dead. I was a bit confused, but oh well.

I didn't really start liking her until much later.

I got into Love Live! and I fell in love with idols.

And Sayaka's an idol.

As a high-school girl, fictional idols are a big role model to me. Someone who's able to gain fame and popularity like that has always kinda been the polar opposite of me. I've done talent shows tons, and for some reason, I love being on stage. I'll confess that I love being showered in attention.

And Sayaka was just like that. Sayaka was an idol, something I, secretly, really wish I was. She was cute, and liked, and, overall, happy.

She got her dreams to come true by working hard. Her backstory says she was alone a lot, so she looked up to idols and became one herself.

She really only has her voice, so it kinda hits home with me even more. I wanted to play an instrument, but never got around to it.

Now, about her canon stuff, I think it's pretty important to mention one thing:

Sayaka was never told about the Class Trial System.

She had no idea, really. She just knew she had to get away with murder, but not exactly it would mean for the others. She could just blame Makoto, just for a little, get back to her life, and forget about it!

I think it's kinda important to look at Chapter 1 's Closing Argument. Particularly, where she gets stabbed.

She looks so afraid, because her plan failed. The dream she'd been chasing for her entire life, all the good attention she'd get, was gone once the knife hit her gut.

And that's when her thoughts pile in. She was about to die, so of course all the fuck ups come to her head.

So, her very last thought is to incriminate Leon. Naegi, her newest friend, I'm pretty sure she genuinely regretted backstabbing him. So she frames Leon, somewhat in his honor.

Obviously, Sayaka isn't innocent. Far from it, in fact. But someone as popular as her is just really easy to change when appearance is the most important thing.

She just wants to be happy, and make other people happy.

And for that, I love her.

You brought up something really important that I don't think is mentioned in conjunction with Maizono a lot: no one knew the class trial rules until after she died! In this light, betraying Naegi is still an awful move, as is, well, attempting to murder someone, but her logic is less sinister. She was trying to find the simplest, fastest way to get out of the school. She knew no one would willingly go along with her plan, so really the only thing she could do is abuse Naegi's trust and hope for the best. And it's a shame it came to that.

If Sayaka knew the rules she'd either never try to kill anybody and never die (because she'd do the same thing as Celeste, always stick in a group of at least 3 that you trust), or immediately kill Makoto. In the former situation it'd be pretty boring to have a murder mystery with someone who wouldn't die, and in the latter we wouldn't have a game.

It's no different than how Chihiro died in the only way that was possible for him to die (nobody is such a monster that they'd murder him in cold blood, don't think even Byakuya would've done it).

It really is a shame.

[S] 
That's honestly such a weird thing, don't they directly explain the Class trial mechanics in the second game before the first killing even occurs?

I wonder why Monokuma left that out in the first game before the first killing.

Junko left that out to cause despair to her classmates in the first game.

In the second game AI Junko didn't give a crap about the 77th class, and she focused more on displaying the class trial bits to Naegi and the others so they'd remember the similar situations they went through.

You just made me realise how much like Sayaka I am. I adore the stage and performing and my friends mean so much to me. I can play instruments but my voice is the only thing I can use on stage. Also, ever since I found out about idols, singing and dancing on stage in front of a massive audience has been a big dream of mine.

You also made me realise how much Sayaka didn't know about the whole situation. Imagine if she killed Leon and found out about the class trials afterwards, how much despair she'd be in. Like you said, she'd be so afraid to be found out because her dream would be snatched away from her... Because she didn't fully know the system of the killing school life.

I need to go think about Sayaka for a moment now.

Oh man! I got so caught up in the story I never even put that together!

Sayaka is the perfect example of someone who tends to be a recurring character type in fanworks, and is an easy trap to fall into when you start talking about "Ultimates". She is a character who is entirely defined by her talent.

As /u/mahiruhanayo
 said, she has no other talents besides her singing. She doesn't seem to have developed interests aside from singing. Outside of her singing group, the only connection she mentions is Naegi, someone she never talked to who was a classmate of hers in the past. The person most important to her was not a family member, but a member of her group.

So of course she was willing to murder someone for the sake of her career: without being the Ultimate Idol and without her singing groups, she is nothing and she has nothing.

How did I forget to post the best Maizono fan video out there?

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lkTsv2rhTk4
I dare everyone to find a better one... actually, I just want to see fan videos, so even if they're not so good go for it...

[S]When you look at the link and it's already purple

I'll try:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLQNTsIUHnE
Although, the sequel to the song you posted is also great.

My friend summed up Sayaka perfectly. He said her talent is "ultimately forgetful." Now, her main job is to betray Makoto's trust in order to set the tone for the game and to set up for the fifth trial. I really like the way the fifth trial progresses in such a similar way to the first, despite having such different circumstances, and it works. Sayaka as a character though? Reeeeally boring and bland to me. I know that she has a background and know about the assertion that she is a product of her environment and all, and I even managed to put something together with Hifumi, but…eh. At least one of my favorite characters is next to discuss.

One thing I will bring up is I'm curious if she thought she'd be able to rescue Makoto despite her framing him for murder. Nobody (unless Maizono asked Monokuma about it offscreen or something) knew the ruling on accomplices until during the class trial, so there is the possibility that Sayaka framed Makoto, and that by having him knowingly act as her accomplice, he'd become the blackened too and earn extra rights. This is the first murder, after all, so a lot of the details weren't fully clear. She does unfortunately suffer from first victim syndrome, and then gets completely shown up in the second game by a much more sympathetic first victim.

It was interesting that a lot of the promo stuff for the first game knd of made her out to be sort of the anime trio with leon and Makoto, only to completely break it apart.

What's first victim syndrome?

Since you're first victim and die at the beginning of the game you suffer less character development than the rest of the cast and most of it is heavily dumped on you before they die.

Thanks, man!

Sayaka sets up a lot of questions about the game itself and not in a good way, and I don't mean by 'what were they thinking killing her first?' either.

First, what exactly was Sayaka thinking all along? Did she expect to kill Leon, frame it on Makoto, and then Makoto gets five years of hard labor and a spanking by Monokuma while she waltzes out and possibly come back to rescue him after she found out what's going on in the outside world? Isn't that an awfully romantic view of the world? If she's supposed to be so naïve, there was nothing in the game to suggest that her worldview could be so out of touch with reality. Where was the character development to justify this? Shouldn't a normal person assume whoever gets framed for murder probably gets killed? Yet with that assumption she'd have never tried to frame Makoto in the first place, as she'd either not do it or just kill him straight up.

Second, why is her character tied to FTEs? No other character does this. At the end, Kyoko said that Sayaka probably cared for Makoto. Did the game assume you just didn't do her FTEs, because if you did it is very obvious she does care for Makoto? You're forced to pick Sayaka as your first FTE and even just from that you can infer that she obviously thinks favorably of Makoto. Of course someone who sort of likes you will want you to be safe if she wasn't going to make it anyway. It almost looks like someone handed Kyoko the wrong spoilers and Kyoko was supposed to talk about why didn't Sayaka just try to kill Makoto instead for the much easier target (because she cared enough for him and somehow believed he could be saved if he was just framed).

Finally, along the same scene, what exactly is the whole point of her death relative to Makoto. I did not for a moment believe that Makoto actually has super perception the same way Sayaka does when he did the whole 'I'm a psychic' thing. Whether Makoto literally can absorb the power of his dead harem or that her death was so shocking that it awoke some innate talent in him isn't actually that important. The point is that Makoto was supposed to grow significantly from the her death, such that it can be justified a completely average guy who was probably supposed to die first can survive and actually contribute. Of course, there is literally no follow up on this whatsoever. In the neutral chapters (e.g. ones where they're not trying to make Kyoko solve everything), Makoto was praised for being extremely thorough and catching evidences that not even Kyoko saw when she's not doing her know-it-all routine. For example, he's the only person that picked up the tarp came from the bio lab from a tiny label on the tarp. I'm sorry, but Makoto isn't supposed to beat Kyoko at her own game unless he has some help, and I was expecting to see him grow with the death of each of his friends starting with Sayaka, except that lead simply dropped off a cliff after chapter 1.

Sayaka is my favorite character in DR1, and she seems to be a living example of how unorganized everything in DR1 is. I think it's a good thing she died so early, because she died while she was still beautiful before the game can ruin her. Overwhelmingly in DR1 the more I find out about a character the less interesting they become, and while that's not to say no character turned out to be better via development, the odds are definitely against her.

I think you're thinking way too much about this, since your problems are quite easy to solve.

About the first part, all she knew was a) her friends are probably dead; b) to get out, you simply need to get away with murder; c) Makoto Naegi, the closest (I mean this in the most literal sense possible) person to her at that time, is kind and soft-hearted; d) Leon wants to be a musician [this is debatable]. At that time, her friends' condition is all she could think about; and even though she did care for Naegi, I believe she was about to sacrifice his life. I believe she hadn't thought of turning back and rescuing him; she simply just wants to get out, and that's quite literally all there is to it. She couldn't think of anything else. The game itself tells you that; all she shouts after seeing the DVD was about wanting to get out.

Second is quite obvious, actually. The girl tried to frame you for murder. The possibility that the girl didn't care for you from the beginning is there. The free time events are there to make you doubt, and Kirigiri's words are supposed to make you feel better; that Maizono really does care for him, and since there's nothing else in her character to explore because she already tells you a lot in the main story, I strongly believe her free time events are to make you doubt.

Third, I think you're forgetting something. Her death did make him grow, but it's just as obvious as Togami's character development; it's not as obvious as it should be. The whole first trial in the game was basically Kirigiri giving hints because she believed Naegi was too confused/broken to think straight, but she still gave hints because she believed he would catch on. Then in chapter 2, since it's still the second chapter, Naegi's still not quite used to the whole investigation thing, and so Kirigiri gives him a ton of hints again (although probably not as much as before). Then after experiencing 4 deaths already, he's gotten somewhat used to it by now (even though he still is pretty shocked to see a dead body), and he can handle his own, and does pretty well for a despairingly average kid. Maizono's death was a bomb, so if you were playing the game in passing, you probably won't notice his development was quite smooth (for a Danganronpa game, anyway).

I mean, didn't you say it yourself? Naegi was able to find about the tarp in the bio lab, and but that's in the fifth chapter. Naegi clearly developed from a guy who couldn't figure out the meaning behind the dying message in the first trial, to a guy who can stand on his own (occasionally) against a Super High School Level Detective. And who freaking knows, maybe all of it was just luck (just kidding).

Maizono's character (in the first game, anyway) is probably the simplest (as in, most straightforward) one next to Naegi's, so overthinking things like that is somewhat unneeded.

I'm sorry if I sound mean at some parts, because I definitely didn't mean it, but that's honestly just how I feel.

Attempting to kill Leon was incredibly dumb, and there's not enough character development to suggest she could be that stupid. There is literally an increase of an order of magnitude in the difficulty between killing Makoto versus Leon. No matter how desperate she is or how much she liked Makoto, you can't just accept the game's explanation of how she went for the nearly impossible task. She didn't even have the staple Japanese murder mystery weapons like the poison needle of instant death. She didn't try to get Leon in bed or something and stab him after he's asleep. If we're allowed to break the fourth wall, it'd seem to me that she acted that way because she was originally supposed to successfully kill someone and then get caught and die horribly, and she decided that it was better to be too dumb to live than submit herself to such humiliation. You can't get away with such unrealistic characterization on someone that was never developed, and being naïve or even stupid cannot explain why she acted the way she did.

The FTEs and especially the report cards are written as if they're facts. There's nothing to speculate on what Sayaka feels about Makoto because it says that on her report card.

Character growth doesn't mean that after seeing 5 guys getting murdered you suddenly become a super sleuth. Hiro survived until the end and he was still as dumb as he started. Makoto's growth is completely unrealistic in light of some kind of supernatural event. The events happening in DR is completely out of Makoto's league. Even Hina sees Makoto as 'most reliable guy to open a door that may have a bomb on it' on chapter 6. His development cannot be subtle. It literally has to be something as outlandish as "I just absorbed Sayaka's soul and now I feel more powerful". Taka becoming Ishida would be an example of the kind of change you've to see to believe that Makoto can contribute, which of course never actually happened.

Honestly, out of all the guys in Danganronpa 1, Leon, while an athlete, was probably the easiest guy to kill (maybe besides Hagakure, but since their body structures are quite different, I think Maizono just thought that it would be hard to kill someone like him; the same goes for Yamada, even though he's easier to manipulate, and she probably thought that Ishimaru wouldn't fall for the note because she already knows what kind of guy he is, since he's the loudest of them all, and the scion Togami was definitely not an option, plus, with her friends being girls, she probably didn't have the heart to kill a female). I mean, if I was Maizono, an idol who just wants to get out the fast way, I would definitely choose someone my size, even if he an athlete. And you can even see from the closing argument, that Maizono was trying to catch him off guard (inviting him to her room, hiding) and kill him while he's still shocked (she probably thought that even he couldn't react that fast to an idol with an knife). Even though that's Naegi's interpretation, it's still something easy to guess. She isn't that stupid; her case was confusing to the students (even though it is obvious to the player). She didn't kill Naegi because she thought that framing him would be much easier than killing him herself, since she did care about him. It's a matter of comparison and elimination. It's easy to guess what Maizono is thinking because, as I said, she's really the simplest character in the first game, next to Naegi.

I always thought that the report cards were written in Naegi's view, not as facts, so my bad then. But even with that, the story is from a character standpoint, not the player's.

And really? I think it has something to do with experience. It's not like Kirigiri became who she is because she was born with all that knowledge. She had to study and gain more experience. It's not like Togami became the Heir from the get-go. It's not like Ultra Despair Girls. It's not like SDR2. Just like how Naegi couldn't beat Junko (with the help of others, of course; as if the guy can beat her himself) without experiencing a lot of things first. Like, how else can you do character development without experience? Naegi saw that his friends died, he helped in investigations, and helped in the trials. After experiencing that the first few times, he got the hang of it, because no matter what Naegi thinks himself of, he isn't as dumb as he thinks. I know Naegi is different from the characters I just mentioned, but their growth had experience written all over it. The only problem with Naegi is that his growth isn't as straightforward as the others. Of course you can't be a Kirigiri right away after experiencing deaths of five people. But guess what? Naegi isn't a super sleuth. He's far from it (plus, when did I ever say/imply that he is? all I said was that he's able to stand on his own). But if you compare his former self to the guy he is now, it just looks like that (kinda).

Hagakure is different from Naegi, in the sense that Hagakure isn't as 'involved' (?) as he is. And even without that, those two are different characters. Even though they experienced the same thing, their characters are fundamentally different, and therefore their 'growth is too'. You can't put an optimistic person and a coward in the same situation and expect them to have the same reactions.

Asahina saying that is clearly just because she herself is afraid, so she made him do it. And it's not like Asahina knows Naegi so well that she was able to tell if he actually grew or not. It's not like she knew him that well at all, so using her statement as an argument doesn't work that well.

I don't know why, but I just loved her character. Probably it's because of how strongly she believed in her dream, and how much commitment she showed. The first trial was very memorable for me, despite how easy it was. Beacuse of that I named my cat Sayaka. Also the fact that my cat has fur color that reminded me of Maizono's hair.

She sang this so she's perfect. Nothing else matters.

Been waiting for this one. Sayaka is one of my favorite characters.

To me, Sayaka is an interesting character in the sense that her thought process, personality, etc. is all relatively up to interpretation due to the events of Ch 1. However, with that said, Sayaka has some major flaws; including a lack of character development, being a walking trope, and her bland design.

The first is obvious as to why, but I really feel like they wasted a potentially important character that could have played to the actual development of the hero by killing her off so early. They also wasted Naegi's reaction. Sure, it would have been hard to play as a depressed kid, but it'd be some bit realistic.

The second and third are just things that really hinder her from standing out amongst other Danganronpa characters, the latter especially. While everyone is a trope, at least they appear to be independent, if that provides some bit of 3 dimensions to their characters. Sayaka doesn't appear that way, and it's actually annoying when you're forced to deal with that in Ch 1.

There isn't just a problem with her from a story perspective, but from a practical game perspective. The case was a bit too easy, and as someone addressed earlier in this thread, not a good introduction to the series.

By no means are these any expert-tier suggestions, but if I had to change the story to Danganronpa, I would have had her live longer, to probably Chapter 3, and probably keep the demo's case for Chapter 1 as an alternative. But coupled with that, I would have had Sayaka become more of a best friend figure to Naegi (love interest is still there, but more justified rather and less forced on you), along with Leon, to make it more emotional when you find out Sayaka's intentions and help add to the characters. Obviously, the case would have to change in difficulty, and that's great. To keep Celes going, she could be the one to notice Sayaka's losing sanity and manipulate her into committing murder. Hell, have Sayaka kill Celes as well in a twist of events after killing Leon. That'd be interesting in the class trial. Naegi would be distraught throughout Ch 4, only to be motivated by Sakura's actions.

I don't see chapter 1 being any more solvable than anything else without the handwaving, and it was only exceptionally easy because it was chapter 1. For all the other important piece of evidences there are fairly easy way to counter it:

11037 - The real killer framed it Leon.

The shattered crystal ball - Complete handwaving over how only Leon could've made that throw. The only thing that should prove is someone like Chihiro who can't throw an object that far couldn't have been the murderer. I'd put Hina, Sakura, Byakuya, Mondo, and Taka all as at least capable of making the throw. Not to mention the way the accusation was made was totally rigged, as in once that statement was made, anyone who was capable of making the throw will just lie and say they can't do it and it becomes a self fulfilling prophecy.

The toolkit - I'd be surprised if Byakuya didn't already opened it up to see what tools he has available to use for his survival. No reason to assume at least others may have been thinking the same thing.

The problem with Sayaka surviving is that the 'everyone dies if you get it wrong' is both too easy and too strong at the same time. It's too strong in that most people, including Sayaka, probably aren't so desperate to take an action if they knew everyone else dies. it's too weak in the sense that because the rule exists, if you do decide to kill anybody at all you should just go for the easiest guy because everyone dies anyway if you succeed. So Sayaka would never choose Leon over Makoto as her victim once she knows everyone else is going to die anyway, and there's nothing in the story to suggest there could've been a plausible way to stop her from doing that.

For the story to continue with Sayaka you'd have to relax the 'everyone else dies' rule, and Sayaka would need to have access to the poison needle of instant death, found next to where Celeste got the instant KO powder, so that it'd look plausible that she could kill Leon. However, to catch a murderer with a genre staple uber weapon like the poison needle of death would likely require DR to abandon the whole "Kyoko figures everything out" premise, which would be very unlikely. That is, a poison needle of death is one of those deus ex machina devices to get an impossible murder going and cannot be plausible figured out via logic.

After some thinking I think the easiest way to work is change the rule so that if you the murderer gets away, only people who voted incorrectly dies. That'd still ensure at least half of the students die (murderer can't have more than half getting correct and avoid blame). Then you can say Sayaka's plan was to just frame it on Makoto and act aggressively toward framing him, and the idea would be that she'd make it so obvious to Makoto (but not anyone else) that she's framing him so he'd know she's the murderer, and then Makoto can quietly not say anything but vote for Sayaka so he wouldn't die.

Some interesting stuff, but also... she was kinda dumb in her choice of targets. Now maybe you can say that she thought Leon was the only one who would actually risk being alone with her at night, but she really chose to try to kill a super athlete?

But in the end they took something that seemed generic and made something interesting out of it for her case.

Going by the guidebook and inferring from the running group photo, Sayaka had a bit of a physical advantage over Leon.

Never saw the guidebook so can't say, but Leon was the guy specifically known for being so good at a physically demanding sport that he didn't even bother practicing for it. He just did it. She was known for being an idol. Admittedly that takes a good amount of endurance and energy, but I'd bet on the male athlete when it comes to a fight.

Plus even if it's correct, Sayaka would have had no way to know that at the time what with the DR1 spoiler.

So can't help but think that any of the girls save Sakura and Hifumi on the boys side would have seemed like better targets.

What I'm referring to specifically in the Guidebook is Sayaka's ability to lift ≈50 kgs (in Makoto) with ease, along with Sakura's approval regarding her strength. In contrast, Sakura notes Leon as weak.

And in the photo I'm referring to, it can be inferred that Sayaka had a stronger endurance than Leon. Whether or not she knew this I think is irrelevant.

Only reason I'm talking about this is because Leon was the second most vulnerable target mentally, with the first being Makoto. Physically, obviously not the first, second, etc. But it's not like she was choosing Sakura as a target is my main point, but rather who could be argued to be weaker than her.

Remember that these students are supposed to be the very best at their role. Leon isn't just some high school jock. He's known as the best baseball player and even if baseball isn't necessarily the most physical demanding sports out there, that doesn't mean you'd have reason to believe the best baseball player is a pushover. Outside of Mondo and Sakura, the most physically imposing character is likely Leon based on what little information Sayaka has available so far. This isn't just stupid. It defies logic and needs explanation. Maybe she just really hated people who got somewhere by talent alone because she's a workaholic especially after Leon asked her about the career change. But you can't just assume this kind of stuff.

Yes it's true that Sayaka was desperate but that alone is likely to drive her to kill Makoto instead. By the time she switched room with Makoto she pretty much can get into his room alone anytime she wanted and could stay overnight easily too. It's true she likes Makoto, but there's no way she likes him enough so that she'd try to kill someone who is, to her knowledge, the third hardest person to kill in the school. And even if she has perfect knowledge of everyone's physical status in the school, there's still no way Leon could possibly be an easy kill. As mentioned he become the best baseball player without practicing, so he obviously has incredible physical talent.

Thanks but I think you're responding to the wrong person. I'm the one who was wondering about her choice of target.

Now her reasons to not target Makoto can make sense. Besides if he was murdered she could easily fall under suspicion since she was close to him, she might just be unable to choose to directly hurt a guy she remembers from her happier past.

I was just pointing out that her choice makes even less sense given that each of the students are known as the top of their respective talents, so Leon is more than just an average baseball player here.

Being close to Makoto is nowhere as incriminating as framing him when Makoto knows exactly what she did to kill Leon. Even if Makoto is somehow too stupid to figure out how Sayaka did it, he obviously knows events relative to her plan (e.g. the room switch). Yes it says Sayaka figures Makoto will keep quiet but then this goes back to the fact that she also must have initially assumed that you don't die for being framed for murder, because it's hard to imagine anyone keeping quiet if they're going to die while being framed. That assumption, of course, needs to be explained because it's just not a normal one to make.

My waifu... gone before I could really know her.

Well, not that I'm contributing to this thread in the usual way, with big impressive character analysis, but I've been waiting for this discussion.

You don't need to do something fancy in order to contribute.

What was your favorite thing about Sayaka?

Sigh

Physical attraction.

But I also adore her personality, and smile. I get the impression she genuinely cared for Naegi.

Really man? You find her attractive?

Dude, Kyoko is standing right there, she deserves to be macked upon just as much as Sayaka.

It's funny, how attraction is a subjective quality. :D

No, afraid even if I was with Kyoko, I still probably wouldn't like her as much. She's unemotional, and serious, never offering a smile. She's intelligent and helpful, I can't lie about that, but she's not for me.

She has emotions, she just doesn't show them during the killing school life.

Gosh have you even completed her FTE's skrublord?

But of course.

Doesn't change my opinion, I'm afraid.

That's okay. If everybody loved her, she wouldn't be a very good waifu.

However she does indeed smile and it's the cutest thing.

We all know Monokuma is the real waifu.

[S]Agreeing with Destroant here, character discussions are a place where you can say anything you want about a character. Obviously a lot of people enjoy writing and reading huge character analysis based on previous threads and upvotes, but you just say your general impressions, link art and videos or anything about them that you liked / disliked.

There's no reason both casual discussion and character analysis can't co-exist! Also I'm glad people look forward to these discussions, it really is a lot of fun to read the at times conflicting and different opinions people have.

I appreciate the kind words, but really, others here have said more than me. _^

Bitch is the reason why my bro Leon died. And yeah, this is one of the reasons why I really really don't like her.

I honestly trusted her when the game started, and was shocked she died. After learning what she did though... I raged. Seriously though, she picked the perfect murder victim: a professional athlete many times stronger than her.

not a big fan of her. japanese murder mysteries are interesting because they're usually very creative and take you by surprise. this is pretty hit or miss in danganronpa, although there do tend to be more hits (and when there are hits, they're usually fantastic). case 1 was a terrible opening to the franchise. sayaka was the most obvious victim bait possible, the twist that she actually wanted to murder leon was the most obvious twist possible, and the crux behind the trial (11037) made sure to make it as obvious as possible who the actual culprit is (not to mention that this "riddle" was already done multiple times in other established franchises, even ace attorney).

thankfully danganronpa managed to pull itself together, but it really could have turned out terribly wrong. since sayaka has little to no character she only functions as a device for the case, which she (or the writerd rather) executed poorly.

Originally it would have been at least a bit harder for the Japanese players who aren't really used to that much English, let alone puzzles that work in English.

>turned on in the fight

Definitely one of the interesting early characters that the game really sneakily try to make you fall for and then kill just afterwards. I suppose she is probably the medium for the game designers to ultimately play with your feelings and get hooked into the game.

Character Discussion #25 - Aoi Asahina (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Swimming Pro

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Quick friendship with Sakura Ogami

Discovers Alter Ego at the start of Chapter 3

Backs up Sakura when her position as the mole was revealed in Chapter 4

Tensions heightened between her, Byakuya Togami, Toko Fukawa and Sakura Ogami

Finds a false suicide note written by Monokuma after Sakura's death that leads her to try and get everyone killed by voting for the wrong culprit

Survives the Mutual Killing Games and escapes Hope's Peak Academy, being recruited into Future Foundation

Is present at Makoto Naegi's trial in his protection of Ultimate Despair in place of a division leader in the upcoming Danganronpa 3 anime

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Swimming Pro, Aoi Asahina!

In a sea of "meh" characters for discussion, there stands one woman to deliver /u/TsundereKermit
 out. Asahina. (Oh God, Makoto is next. The Hajime discussion is flooding back…)

Hina's role in DR1 is acting as a foil to Byakuya, all playing on the angle of how to trust others in a killing game. Byakuya was clearly in it for himself, always considered the possibility of being betrayed, and would constantly exploit or at the very least any loophole in the class rules he could.

Asahina takes a different approach. She sees this as a battle of us versus Monokuma. She doesn't accept the terms of the killing game. Even though she doesn't like all the other students, she realizes that Monokuma is the greater threat and casts that aside and focuses all of her hatred toward Monokuma. In that light, she's making a very mature, responsible response to this kind of situation. They establish this kind of personality in her FTEs, as one of the first things they let you know about her is that she participates in several team sports. Just like in her sports, even if she doesn't like you or if you rub her the wrong way, she will still respect any suggestions you have for the group and will lend a hand if needed.

She doesn't care for Fukawa, but she still takes time to help when she passed out in chapter 2. She doesn't appreciate Celeste's condescension, but is still very respectful of Celeste's night time rule suggestion and feels incredibly guilty about it the one time she breaks it, going as far as wanting to keep the rule in effect even after Celeste's execution. She didn't find Yamada too reliable and found him a bit pervy, but still cries over his death, and so on.

A lot of people make out Byakuya's thinking as the clear smarter choice, but if applied, I don't see much point in actively pissing everyone off, going to a set location every day (he'd frequent the library, so anyone could make use of that and kill him), not traveling in groups, and so on. I understand being cautious and am not suggesting Hina's method is perfect—both have their set ups and downs—but Byakuya's frame of thinking is risky as well.

Hina is attentive to what others and usually wears her heart on her sleeve. She's one of the few characters that will constantly question and wonder how people think and feel. She asks what's going through the killer's head in chapter 1's investigation. She wonders what kind of regrets Chihiro may have had and is the one who caught on to some of her unusual behavior around being so uncomfortable around the women in chapter 2. She's the one questioning the most of "what the hell is up with you and how can you be so calm about the fact that you're gonna die" to Celeste in chapter 3 and even is curious about how Alter Ego may feel about losing its other half based on one of her lines in chapter 3.

She expects everyone to pitch in with group efforts…which is incredibly frustrating in a killing game where everyone is focused on themselves, not caring about each other, or being Byakuya. If there's one takeaway from her FTEs, it's that she has to go for gold at pretty much anything she does and she doesn't like setting the bar low.

There's her relationship with her best friend, Sakura. Sakura is a foil to Asahina, but in a different respect to Byakuya. Both are top athlete women constantly having to deal with sexist comments and feel that they have to cast aside their femininity in order to be strong. Asahina respects how direct and honest Sakura is (Sakura is one of the few people that will actually tell you what she saw in her video in ch. 1's motive, for example. It's pretty clear what they were implied to be, but Sakura elaborates in detail what she saw.)

Sakura spends the night with Asahina in her room the night of Sayaka's murder. This was mostly done so Asahina's testimony doesn't backfire and so that she can be ruled out as the killer, but it's much more powerful when chapter 4 comes and you discover that Sakura was a traitor ordered to kill and that Asahina could have easily been the first victim had Sakura just been a one dimensional traitor.

But Hina isn't aware of this. Hina respects honesty, someone who can stay true to themselves, and teamwork, right? So here comes chapter 3 when the liar queen is up on the gallows. Hina is the one questioning her, and the choice of Celeste being the killer makes for a good transition into the next chapter.

Asahina: How can human life mean so little to you!?... You sound so passionate, but...you were really able to kill your own friends for it?

Celeste: Isn't it terrifying how different our values are? There's simply no room for understanding.

Celeste sticks to lying, even as she's about to die, but imagine how much of a stab this is to Hina. Imagine hearing this if you're Sakura and you've been hiding from your best friend the whole time. We might as well have Hina say "oh well, at least Sakura isn't anything like that" followed by Sakura pulling her shirt collar.

Chapter 4 comes, Sakura is outed. Hina's first assumption? Sakura isn't the traitor. After she accepts that Sakura is, she then assumes she was forced into it or was blackmailed in some way. She at the very least still trusts Sakura and still considers her a friend. It bubbles over horribly and everything in this chapter is deliberately set up to force the dilemma of the entire series—the dilemma of trust—onto all the characters. The group starts fighting and Hina utters one of her coldest lines in the game to Byakuya.

Asahina: You disgust me! You're...you're a monster! To say something like that...it should have been you. You should have been the one to die!

Byakuya sees Sakura as a problem. Hagakure sees how she can benefit them thinking "oh, well if she kills the mastermind, that'd be cool for me." Toko/Genocider do nothing but dickride Byakuya and insult Sakura. You're worried about your friend, nobody around you seems to give a shit.

Sakura chose to trust in everyone and meets with everyone to see how she can earn their forgiveness. They might not trust her, but Sakura chooses to trust everyone. Hina sees that trusting in these monsters resulted in Sakura being assaulted twice and her being driven to suicide. Hina's had it. Fuck them. Fuck working together, they clearly aren't interested. They hurt my best friend.

Hina wants to go for the gold, she wants to defeat the mastermind as a group. But that just isn't happening. She wasn't good enough to save Sakura and guilted Sakura more. Hina casts aside that and instead decides to take everyone down. Her attitude this whole time has been " focus on the bigger problem at hand here," but now she sees that nobody else cares about that. During the trial, she learned that the others didn't even care. Hagakure didn't care about Sakura and was just relieved that he wasn't the killer; Genocider was more upset that she broke one of the rules of her murder philosophy. Togami outright hoped Sakura would die. Nobody but Hina was interested in helping Sakura. Makoto and Kyoko don't have any contribution to this, but they're more focused on Alter Ego affairs at this point in the game. Trial 4 was designed so that everyone was there to accept the terms of the game.

This results in Hina acting incredibly out of character the whole trial. She resorts to lying and deception to get through the trial. Makoto notices how strange she's acting during the trial and decides not to cast a vote yet purely on the basis that it's friggin' Hina and the evidence is too obvious. Sound familiar? Like how Hajime didn't want to vote in trial 5 purely on the basis that it's Nagito? Then they dug a little deeper to find more contradictions? Hina gave us the single satisfying moment in the game, she caught Byakuya contradicting his own preaching of "it's dangerous to assume everyone thinks the way they you do." Sakura and Hina don't act purely on cost/benefit analysis. Nobody does fully. We're human.

Isn't it twisted how they rewrote a trial based on a combination of Celeste's murder plan and the misdirecting plan from Asahina?

We are then given Sakura's true thoughts in her suicide note. Unfortunately, we'll never get to see the full contents of her note. Hina sees that in the end, her best friend would sooner die than take her friend's life. More of that for Sakura's discussion though. Hina is someone who had her beliefs nearly come crashing into the ground, and while Sakura's character goes from being an invincible god brought down and shown to have insecurities and humanity, Hina goes from a normal girl brought to the brink of despair and is shown to be elevated to a stronger status after this point. I will concede that she's kinda just there after chapter 4. I was hoping to see an incident kind of like Sonia getting pissed in Ch 5 of DR 2 because of the events of Ch 4, but oh well.

Last is those "she's so dumb!" comments. Hina really only starts pushing harder from chapter 3 onward. Chapter 3 would make sense for her to be incorrect in because this is the first trial she began guarding the crime scene in after she took Mondo's place. She doesn't have the luxury of going around everywhere and seeing all the evidence needed to put together that Hagakure couldn't have been the killer. It's obvious for someone like Makoto. But if you're limited to one space and get to go see a robot costume at the last minute, you're still not gonna be able to change your opinion, especially when one of the victims told you the killer is "Yasuhiro." Chapter 4 was her actively trying to misdirect the trial, so she had her own agenda here. Trial 5 is supposed to be an unfair trial, and she doesn't really have any dumb moments here anyway. When people bring up the "Hina's so dumb" thing, they're usually referring to chapter 3, and most of the points she brings up she's only asking about because she didn't get to do a full investigation. Doughnuts.

[S]I'm sure in a thread for Makoto there'll be much more sympathizers than in one for Hajime, stalwart defender of Makoto.

Just wait till DR3 and we can toss in another protagonist into the fight! Free for all brawl to the death!

Asahina is a Naegiri shipper confirmed

One of my favorite lines from her is when she noticed that Kyoko was giving Makoto the silent treatment.

I think it was along the lines of "Kyoko is totally mad at you...I bet it was your fault too!"

EDIT 2: AGHH I found it I knew I wasn't crazy. The part I was originally referring to is this one

EDIT: It might be a different part I am recalling or my memory is just really bad, but it was Another similar part

A little too much backbone I think it was.

I think she is a good example that you don't need any special abilities to survive the Killing Game. She is also in the second best picture of the first game.

Really if you think about it, the victims of the game died due to circumstances or executions. The only truly planned murders were Sayaka's failed attempt, and Celeste's plan in chapter 3. Her and the other survivors just so happened to survive the killing game.

I don't think she really offered much in terms of defeating the mastermind, but she offered morale support of the group, and was usually a very cheery person. Plus, she was less annoying then Yasuhiro in every regard, even though she brings up donuts...a lot. One of my favorite parts about her is that she chose to keep everyone close to her, even after they died, as well as her "Push Forward" attitude.
She is one of the more bubbly/energetic characters and was also pretty good at reading people (Noticing Kyoko's anger, for instance) and was never afraid to speak her mind.

Her actions in chapter 4 were very strange...but she was clearly distraught in losing her best friend. It is understandable though, and was mostly Monokuma's fault.

I don't have extreme like/dislikes for this character. If she died during any point of the game however, I think I would have felt more distraught then I would have with most other characters. I would probably put her above the top half of my favorite characters.

if that's the second best picture, what's the first? :P

( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°) 
I may or may not have bias towards a certain character...

She's one of the few characters in DR1 that gets better with development, though her personality is straightforward enough that maybe it'd be more correct to say that they just didn't screw anything up with her. She's one of the few character that actually understands her own weakness (she knew she would think about killing people if she didn't binge on donuts!) and how to overcome it. The game's attempt to lump everything in despair/hope is a huge disservice to her in chapter 4. She's neither hope nor despair. Hina's character is that she simply values her friends above everything else, and if you harm her friends, she's going to do whatever it takes to avenge them. If Junko was her best friend instead of Sakura, I'm sure she'd have turned on the students in the final chapter, for example.

The whole 'it's all Monokuma's fault that Sakura died' is stupid, because there are legitimate reasons to believe Sakura could've committed suicide. If Sakura really thought the peer pressure was too much to take, does that somehow make Hina's act of vengeance any more justified? And I don't think Hina even cares what others thinks of her, as in after her failed attempt to get everyone killed I think she'd just try to openly kill Byakuya again, knowing that she either succeeds or if she gets killed then whoever kills her dies anyway and that'd have a small measure of revenge.

Maybe it was too awkward to consider how the rest of the students are supposed to deal with Hina when she's set on revenge so they have a cop out, but I think having permanent grudges and how to deal with them in a world of DR1 should make perfect sense. For all the alleged dark atmosphere, DR purposely avoids the hard questions and that really messes up Hina's potential. For example, what if Sakura felt she had to kill someone to honor her promise and it didn't occur to her that she could kill herself, so she decided to kill Byakuya? Sure, Hina would likely try to talk her out of it, but suppose Sakura refuses, then what? I'm sure Hina would be perfectly fine with that and then just watch Sakura turn herself in, and then how does the survivor deal with the fact that Hina gave her consent to murder another student?

In a franchise full of double-crosses, tricks, secret identities, false identities, and tons of espionage and intrigue, sometimes it's refreshing to just have a character who is exactly what's on their sleeve. Hina is... what she is. Athletic, loves food, loyal to her friends, optimistic as much as she can be, and sticks firmly to wanting no one to die (besides her brief stint into despair during Case 4). While she didn't do anything particularly notable (yet, we'll see what happens in D3), sometimes it's nice to have a character in there who you know is just what they are.

Plus, she's damned good looking.

When it comes to series defining characters, Hina is as middle-of-the-road as it gets; she's just kinda...there for most of the game.

From my perspective, it's because of her being middle-of-the-road that she gets to survive to the end (At least in DR1, not sure about DR3) along with more relevant characters like Makoto, Kyoko, and Byakuya. She neither has any strong motivation for her to become blackened, nor does she have any sort of notable characteristics that would make her a target. She's just a nice girl who is not too memorable and not too despicable.

Obviously the time we see the most out of her character is in chapter 4, where she was tricked into believing that Sakura was driven to suicide by the other survivors. Although it was kinda a jerk move of her to try and guide the trial to a false conclusion, almost bringing down Naegiri Makoto and Kyoko despite them being relatively innocent, it really did highlight her strong relationship between her and Sakura.

The most obvious character from DR2 that she can be compared to is Akane, who also falls under the "Darker skinned athletic girl" archetype. If Akane is the bigger-boobed, empty-headed of the two, then Hina would be the slightly smaller-boobed, slightly smarter one. Keep in mind, Hina was at least smart enough to remember key details from the first Chapter that saved Makoto from being accused of Sayaka's murder. Akane on the other hand, endangered her version of Sakura: Nekomaru, not once, but twice with her "Punch first, ask questions later" mentality.

It might be because there isn't much backstory to a lot of characters given in DR 1, but Akane felt like a stronger character. Her unhappy past just stuck with me more.

Well with her brother and the anime maybe Hina'll get a bit more chance to shine.

Edit. Well, TsundereKermit does do a decent job arguing her case.

[S]Akane's one of those weird characters that's pretty lame and forgettable in the main story that has a must see FTE if you want to understand her that vastly improved my opinion of her.

I still like Hina more just for being a more intelligent endless supply of positivity rather than Akane being dumb in an oblivious way in so many scenes.

She is borderline boring to be honest, what makes her funny is the constant harassment she gets from Toko. Aside from that, just some big boobed girl that kinda lacks a personality.

She, along with Leon, Hifumi, Yasuhiro and Taka is in the meh list of DR1 game. She's probably a the top though, since she's not annoying and actually is pretty funny at some rare times.

Honestly though, out of all the original survivors Aoi probably gets the shortest end of the stick when it comes to treatment and representation in other entries in the series:

Not only does she have to deal with her best friend committing suicide, but DR:AE Spoiler

She's the only one left who hasn't been either a game protagonist or the focus of a spin off novel (Though arguably DR Hagakure is more about Kanon and the quality of DR Togami has left him as more of a side character in his own series)

Has barely been mentioned in anything more than an aside until the DR3 announcement, which sort of gave the feeling that she was one of the first shown just so the writers could prove they hadn't forgotten she existed.

I kind of have a terrible feeling that she and Hagakure might just be used for shock value deaths in the anime, so they can freak viewers out by showing established characters aren't safe from murder while not affecting the merchandise sales of more popular characters like Naegi and Kirigiri. Not that I don't doubt that Kodaka would be willing to kill them, but it would definitely be the safer route.

Yasuhiro could predict his own death in details so he can never die.

[S] 
A bit earlier than usual cause I'm dipping out early and wanted to get this up before then, and on the bright side it doesn't go up in the middle of night like usual!

Anyways, thought Hina was a pretty fun character. Not really a stand out but no real reason to despise her, the only time I found her doing disagreeable was when she tried to get everyone killed. I mean sure I understand the others, but she was dragging in Makoto and Kyoko who both were either amicable or neutral in stance regarding Sakura which I thought was a bit unfair.

Regarding the point about Kyoko and Naegi being innocent, I think the bigger point isn't so much that they weren't helping Sakura. Kyoko never says a thing and is more focused on the Alter Ego incident and is instead saying "hey, this is the motive." It's not so much that Kyoko actively did anything to Sakura, it's just that she's incredibly indifferent to the situation and also wasn't really doing anything since she was preoccupied with Alter Ego.

Makoto, eh. Player character. I do get the point of being unfair toward Kyoko/Makoto, but I felt the bigger point is that she kind of just saw that nobody in the killing game really gives a shit about working together.

[S] 
I think the bigger point

I can't understand this sentence, but judging from the rest I'm surmising you mean guilty via compliance or apathy to the situation, like a bystander effect or watching someone get bullied and not speaking up. I mean it probably makes sense in context since she was in a very emotional state and whatnot, but I feel it's a stretch when she blames everyone for driving Sakura into a corner, Kyoko and Makoto didn't necessarily do that. Maybe you could use indifference as a reason, but especially with Makoto it sorta falls flat.

I don't recall but was Kyoko and Makoto working together ever public knowledge? I recall they snuck to the baths together and Kyoko used Makoto, but I don't recall if she ever said anything to anyone beside Makoto in fear of the Mastermind. In that regard I'd agree with you.

Kinda, yeah. I definitely agree that there was nothing against Makoto, especially since he still stands up for Sakura, but I figure the majority kinda sucks for her and with the fact that her best friend died, she's not in the right frame of thinking. It's not to justify any of it, since you can't really do it well here, but I don't have much issue with her attempting to take everyone down since I already accepted it as unfair from the start. Makoto most certainly didn't do anything, I agree. The apathy portion is mostly there for Kyoko, who even told Byakuya he was going too far with taunting Hina, but still was just looking at this purely as a motive if you just went by her words.

I figure Makoto and Kyoko snuck off in pairs on their own enough that the mastermind could piece it together even if they don't say it. She manages to figure out about Alter Ego, so that part isn't unthinkable either. For everyone else, I don't think it was ever said much, but other characters seem to be aware that the two are working together. For example, Byakuya makes fun of him in the third chapter when they're trying to get alibis down and when Makoto points out Kyoko has one, Byakuya takes a second to point out how chummy the two are.

Character Discussion #26 - Makoto Naegi (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Lucky Student / Hope

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc, Goodbye Despair, Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Went to same school as Sayaka Maizono, quickly becomes close with her

Swaps rooms with her but ends up as a suspect in Chapter 1 due to this

Works with Byakuya Togami during his investigation in Chapter 2

Uncovers the Mastermind and defeats her, leaving the school building with the other survivors

Finds and protects the Remnants of Despair, believing them to be redeemable and savable from Junko Enoshima's brainwashing

Intervenes during the climax of Goodbye Despair to assist the survivors of the second game

On trial for his involvement in protecting the Remnants of Despair

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Lucky Student, Makoto Naegi!

A lot of people say he has bad luck, but anyone whom Kyoko whispers sweet nothings to is lucky in my eyes.

I actually like this character a lot. He is a generic boring character but is actually a character most people can relate too.. However when you are surrounded by ultimates being normal makes you the odd one out. He serves as a nice standard foundation in the killing game. He has no desire to kill, no strong desire to leave, no secrets, and no ego. He really does not have any major or quarky traits, however his actions in the game bring him near the top of my favorite characters. He is actually really good at making friends and building trust, and even manages to win the heart of the lavender haired goddess.

Trust is a major theme in this game. It has demonstrated time and time again that it gets people killed. Betraying others is essential to a killing game like this, and Makoto never folded and continued to believe in his friends until the very end. Makoto constantly refused to give in and he refused to forget the lives of any of his fellow classmates.

He does a lot of stuff I like, but I really want to only talk about one them right now. I think that the decision to trust Kyoko was the single most important decision in the danganronpa universe. Makoto actually had no reason to actually trust her. All the evidence in the trial really did point to Kyoko. He has been betrayed before by a close friend, and as far as the rules of the killing game were concerned there had to be a killer.

However, he decided to trust Kyoko over the mastermind, which would have cost him his life if it weren't for being luckily saved by alter ego. I don't think any other character would have demonstrated that level of trust. Even characters with strong bonds, such as Hina's trust for Sakura, would not have been enough (Hina was tricked, but she trusted the fake suicide note over what Sakura actually desired). This lead to cascade of events that ultimately ended the mastermind and turned him to a hope spewing machine.

It is kind of hard to talk about Makoto without involving Kyoko in some way, I personally like this a lot, but I can see how it takes away from the character. I will save the discussion about their partnership/relationship for Kyoko's discussion because I believe it impacts her more.

I am actually excited to watch him in DR3. I am hoping they will keep him in long enough (as well as the other DR1 survivors) to further develop his character.

I would talk about him more, but Overwatch is calling me, plus I am saving all the good stuff for Kyoko's discussion.

Oh man I can't wait for Kirigiri, she's one of the few characters I actually like in the first game and she always gets a lot of flak.

Besides more development and interactions, I just want none of the DR1 survivors (except Hagakure lol he can go burn in a fire) to die in DR3 :(

Bad luck? Nah, Makoto's luck is good, he just never uses it. The one time the situation is actually reliant on luck was, as you said, trusting Kyoko who was still a bit of a wild card due to her secrecy. It came out in his favor in the end, not only sparing his life, but keeping anyone else from being executed. Every other time it might come up Makoto takes initiative, weighs his options with the risks he's aware of, and decides the outcome himself (once even disobeying the player's orders to do it if they choose "wrong").

Komaeda might show his luck more by actually throwing himself onto the whims of fate, but Makoto hasn't had crippling damages done to his person due to accidents when fate's not feeling so kind, so I'd say Makoto's much better off.

Just to add more to your point, if Makoto didn't make the choice he made regarding Kyoko, they wouldn't have gotten their opportunity to escape when they got the mastermind to slip up.

[S]While I see your example, I always felt like Makoto's Lucky Student title was just a way to get him in the school as the plot demanded that fit with Hope's Peak and Makoto's seeming ordinary capabilities.

Nagito much more embodies luck to me since his personality is so dominated by it.

I've always thought that the 'luck' of Naegi was a plot device too, so that it will be easier to explain all the coincidences that happen to him before the trial, because everything that was brought forth to him are conveniently related to the case at one point (and for me, this is one of the only reasons why I prefer him as the protagonist), and so that the fact that he survived at all even though he's pretty damn ordinary will be much more believable (even though the reason he did survive was because of his optimism and trust more than anything else). But even with that, I do think luck is a big factor in Naegi's character, just like how it with Komaeda's character. I think the main reason why people think the way you do about Naegi's luck is because his beliefs are the things that are brought to our attention more than his luck, which is even more of a background force than it already is in Danganronpa, unlike with Komaeda, who is always going on about both hope and luck. Hm, by this point, I'm not sure if I'm trying to agree or disagree with you. I'll just go with 'I partially agree with you', if that makes sense.

Who do you think is luckier, Naegi Makoto or Komaeda Nagito? Just a question I would like to ask, because I saw this tumblr post a while ago and I thought I would bring up the discussion on here too.

[S]I think Nagito's luck is more obviously shoved in your face, but Makoto is definitely lucky as well. Made it through the entire game, trusting Kyoko being the right choice, Alter Ego apparently not destroyed and halting his execution just to have Kyoko save him, etc. I'm honestly not sure since you can't really quantify luck.

Maybe the straw to break the camel's back will be in DR3? Though Makoto would have more opportunity to showcase his luck than Nagito.

Yeah, I agree. I'm really excited for the D3 anime and what it can bring to the table for all the survivors of the Tragedy :) I hope it doesn't disappoint

[S]I'm not sure if I'd rather be disappointed that there's plot armor involving the survivors, or sob terrible tears if / when one of them dies.

I'm not ready hold me

I actually think the best characters are the ones who aren't dominated by their talent, but I suppose that's just a difference of opinion

[S]I think talents are an integral part of who each character is, hence being an Ultimate.

Of course if they only talked about that it'd be boring, but I'd dislike it if it was completely ignored. I realize it's justified in her character, but I honestly forgot about Akane being a gymnast.

[S]Well I had this all ready then I found myself engrossed in Battle Royale, and ended up marathon-ing it and lost track of times so whoops. Great manga for any fans of Danganronpa, though definitely a lot more adult in tone and gore.

But onto the star of the show, Makoto Naegi. I think with Hajime's discussion there's a clear difference between the two protagonists, and it seems Hajime's the more popular of the two. I can see why, since to me Makoto never really felt that different from countless protagonists I've seen in Japanese media. Hajime still fulfilled a lot of tropes, but he had a twist that made him infinitely more interesting in my opinion. I guess nothing really stood out to me about Makoto and he was just my eyes for Trigger Happy Havoc, nothing more.

This could be set to change with the new Danganronpa anime and they could do something interesting with Makoto there, which is what I'm hoping for. I don't need a dramatic backstory twist reveal to like a main character, but I'm hoping something happens that just makes me interested in Makoto. I also hope they can accomplish that without killing his character, since I don't have anything against the guy either, and he still has that special place as the "first".

I suppose I should start off by saying that I like Makoto more than Hajime, but overall, they're both still protagonist characters and there to be a stand-in for the player to a degree.

Ask someone who prefers Hajime more what they prefer and you'll likely get responses like 1) He's more realistic, 2) He's smarter than Makoto ever was, and 3) They do more with Hajime.

Makoto is mostly there to be a trial of trust in a killing game. Trial 1 has Makoto betrayed in order to set up for the remainder of the trials and do something of Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulations theme of being able to believe in others after dealing with a large betrayal (end of JFA). Sure, fine. The only trial I don't like Makoto in is in trial 1 for the way he talks to Leon, but I guess I can save that for Leon's discussion.

In any event, Monokuma continually focuses his attention on Monokuma, much like Asahina. It's not to say he doesn't have issues with other characters, judging from his reaction to killers like Leon and Celeste, but he still also places a large amount of blame on Monokuma for arranging the incident to begin with. He knows when to call someone out as an individual and when what someone else did was at fault. Take trial 5 where he gets voted as the killer for example. In that situation, everyone clearly didn't believe he really was the killer, but nobody knew what to do if Monokuma was forcing them to make a vote. It was just kind of a tough situation for them, which is why Makoto doesn't hold it against them. (EDIT NOTE: I'm not changing "Monokuma continually focuses his attention on Monokuma" because it really is humorous to think about)

Makoto is optimistic, yes…but it won't stop him from delivering the coup de grace when needed. Take trial 2 for example when he's got the final argument against Mondo ready. He doesn't not say anything, but is still quite respectful and clearly doesn't enjoy what he's doing. They sort of pushed this whole thing onto Hajime as well where he would say he doesn't want to go through with it, but his attitude during class trials never seemed to match that save for trial 5, where it felt like they were saving parts that should have been used in earlier trials just to make that part seem stronger.

I don't really have too much to say about Makoto himself, because both he and Hajime don't end up bringing in that much aside from being the voice for the main themes of the story. Makoto gets a foreshadowing dream in chapter 6 and a last minute talent reveal at the end. Hajime gets a talent reveal in chapter 4, about two lines of moping in chapter 5, and a last minute reveal in chapter 6, so I can see why people would find it more interesting, but it didn't really do much for "lots more" done with Hajime's character, especially given how high the stakes already were by the end of DR 2 Trial 6.

We also get the fact that Makoto believes so strongly in that trust that he not only betrays the future foundation out of a disagreement in ideals, but jumps in the virtual world himself in order to give everyone a chance, which is in no way a small feat. I personally saw Makoto as more of a force than a character, as I do with Junko, and I'll talk more about that when we get to Junko/Monaca discussions (to summarize, I like Junko but dislike Monaca because we don't know much about Junko's motivations).

Last thing I really wanna call out are those "Makoto is so stupid" things. Some of it is just the nature of DR 1 itself since DR 2 is a little harder, but people make it out like Makoto is completely dependent on Byakuya and Kyoko. Trial 2 has Byakuya feeding Makoto information regarding Genocider to lead Makoto in a certain direction (when he knew the culprit) just the way Nagito does with Hajime, but even then even Byakuya got thrown off by the revelation that Chihiro was moved, and Makoto is still the one leading the trial in this situation. Kyoko generally comes in with assertions of her own, but it's not as if Makoto is just copying her or reliant on either one. Trial 3 begins with Makoto immediately calling bullshit the moment the trial begins. He doubts Hagakure is the killer and asks the big question of why you'd even kill two people to begin with. If you look at Byakuya's words here, even he believed Hagakure to be the killer, but changes his mind once Makoto gives his thoughts. Makoto isn't reliant on Byakuya in this case. If anything, it's the other way around. They do all contribute, but I think it's incorrect to say Makoto needs the others to get through the trial. Trial 4 is mostly just Kyoko focusing on the locked room mystery part of the trial while Makoto is the one pushing and pressing through the details about what everyone did there. Byakuya also got the answer wrong here despite being able to at least call the poison being used. Then in trial 5, we have Makoto and Kyoko being pitted against each other, so I see no reason why everyone is still saying he's an idiot that needs to be coddled.

That ignores the fact that Hajime is put in the exact same setup of DR 1 Trial 2 in his first trial with Nagito, the fact that he gets fed hints from Nagito in trial 3, copies what Nagito says himself in trial 4, and gets sidelined to a degree by Chiaki and Fuyuhiko in trial 5. My biggest gripe is that a lot of the things one character gets criticized for were done by the other character, who gets an entirely different reception for it. Makoto is by no means my number one character and not even the most memorable of the DR 1 cast, but he's been elevated more to a force than a character the way Junko is, which was clearly the goal of DR 1 in making him the ultimate hope by the end of the game. Hajime was set up to still remain a character, but more of a neutral party.

[S]I know it's pretty late or early morning depending, but

In any event, Monokuma continually focuses his attention on Monokuma

Got a good chuckle outta me, sounds like the sort of thing Monokuma would do with his narcissistic act.

Indeed. It was around 4-5AM just a little while ago for me when I wrote this, and it's pretty funny now that you point it out. I'm just not gonna change it.

Whoops, missed the discussion for Asahina... Ah well, I didn't have much to say about her anyway...

A lot of people think Makoto is boring, and I disagree. Makoto would probably agree himself, but low self esteem seems to run in the Naegi family. Both he and his sister think they're perfectly average people, despite evidence that they are of above average wealth (the reason for that relates more to Komaru than Makoto) and skilled at numerous tasks from winning arguments to investigating murders.

Makoto seems to have been disadvantaged from the start among his peers. Thanks to Maizono, he's accused of murder on the very first trial. He's later accused two more times of being an enemy of the student body, and is also accused and convicted of being the 5th killer. It would be fair to say he's not popular with his group during the game.

Not too surprising either, thanks to the DR1 game mechanics, Makoto is unable to agree with anyone, and so for the entire game he's yelling in everyone's ears that they're wrong during almost every discussion. It's likely a result of that that later trials Byakuya and Kirigiri barely speak up compared to earlier roles. After all, Makoto's just going to yell at you if you participate in the never ending debate, and nobody else is really going to listen, so why chime in? If Makoto wants to dominate the trials, they'll just let him. He may also come off as desperate since he starts giving gifts to the students from the outset rather than waiting until they've talked a few times first.

So why does everyone treat him like the new savior of the world in later games? Well, despite nearly getting him killed, treating him like a traitor, and basically forcing him to do all the work for most of the game, Makoto is willing to forgive them. He then drags the survivors out of their stupors during the last trial, and apparently leads them to join Future foundation. While he likely would've chosen the same, whether Naegi wanted to be Ultimate Hope is ultimately irrelevant, Junko basically forced him into "hope" by making "despair" a death sentence for him.

In the end, he's a kid forced to be exceptional, and regardless of whether he was normal or skilled from the start, he managed to fill the role. So good job, Makoto. Now do it again in V3.

Yes, my time to shine.

I LOVE Makoto. He's the best protagonist out of the three, followed by his sister then Hajime. He's average and easy to relate to. His optimism gets him through tough situations and allows him to stay strong through even the most despair-filled moments.

However, there's parts of Makoto as his own character that people often forget. For example, if you look at his actions in SDR2 and soon-to-be DR3, he's is very much selfish. Perhaps some of the Remnants would have preferred death. Perhaps they didn't want a second chance to start over. But Makoto didn't really think about that. He only thought about saving them and giving them a second chance. He has a strong desire to see those he loves alive, and will go to any lengths to keep it that way.

Makoto may be seen as naive and childish, but there are times where he's really.... not. Sure, he looks to Kyouko and Togami for a lot of guidance during class trials, but when it comes down to it, Makoto can stand his own. It was HIS choice to stand up and declare they'll make it out. He CHOSE to take the blame for the murder in Chapter 5, which would lead to his death. People can say "that was the player, though!" but the fact that Makoto represents the player is what I'm talking about. He is strong and unmoving, but at times, can still be quite reliant on Kyouko.

And on that note.... Naegiri IS canon and I'm willing to fight anyone who doesn't agree. I won't go into specifics, but those two will always be together.

Not to mention he tried to redeem Junko, who we KNOW didn't want to be given a second chance...

Also, worth mentioning is that while the player is given a choice, taking the blame for the murder is the "real" outcome, so it's the one Makoto actually has to take to be the Makoto we see in future games. If he hadn't decided to take the blame and had everything turn out fine, maybe he wouldn't be the same trusting, all-forgiving person who tried to save Ultimate Despair...

Not to mention he tried to redeem Junko, who we KNOW didn't want to be given a second chance...

Well not exactly because, he still wanted her to be punished for what she had done in the first game. (Just look at DR1 stage play) He just felt that an execution was too extreme.

Plus this was also before he had his memories returned, so back then he didn't know for sure or not if Junko was telling the truth about the outside world. By the time we get to SDR2 and see his interaction with AI Junko, he's decided to put all the blame for all the chaos in the world on her.

Where can I find the stage play? Preferably on youtube or some other streaming, because I'm certainly not going to see it on an actual stage...

[S] 
Most if not all have been taken down from Youtube I believe over copyright claims.

I think someone linked a copy of the entire DR2 stageplay before it got taken down, without subs unfortunately. There was a subbed version for portions of DR1 I recall watching but I can't find them anymore so I'd assume they've been taken down as well.

He is supposed to be the ultimate hope. Of course he will always desire for people to live because the moment you are willing to choose to die is when you have given up all hope.

There is nothing selfish about the desire for others to have it better. If they want to die, that's due to their minds being clouded. Death will come anyway so is it really selfish to desire for people to live out their lives, hoping for a better future?

Sorry for taking so long to reply to this! I've been at work all day.

You could say that about what 'hope' is. However, Makoto even states himself that he doesn't think he's worthy enough to be called the SHSL/Ultimate Hope. (Sorry, terrible anime clip. But it's the literal quote, word for word.) Yes, in the end, it was the group's overall wanting to push onwards and defeat despair that got them through with Junko, but you have to think... It wasn't JUST Makoto there! Makoto's hope truly relies on those around him. If it weren't for their combined strength in the end, they would have never defeated Enoshima.

What is SELFISH about Makoto's hope is that he pushes it. He pushes for their safety so much he is willing to go against orders of superiors, risk several people's lives and valuable resources for the sake of a potentially dangerous group of people. And of course, you could go into the thousands of headcanons people have for characters (especially how the SDR2 cast acted in despair; we have to just wait until July!), but there's a chance some of the Remnants would have died alongside Junko if given the chance. Mikan is a GREAT example of this. So, unless she was following Junko's orders... Do you think Mkan, who killed for the ake of her beloved, the only one who ever gave her praise and affection, would choose to try for hope instead of just killing herself? Do you think she even had any desire to trul try again? In my eyes... No. Makoto probably pushed her into trying again. Whether by her will or forced.

That's why I call him selfish when it comes to what HIS hope is. The courage to face tomorrow with all of your strength is what HIS hope is. But... did the Remnants really have this strength? The Neo World Program was made to help them basically forget their time iin despair, not cope with it and learn to move forward.

I'm sorry if this is all over the place. I just had a lot of thoughts about it. Makoto is, as my said, my favorite protagonist and my favorite character in DR1. However, I feel like it's important to sshow his bad side. Much like Hinata's cynical nature, or Komaru's less-than-average courage. Could he overcome this selfishness? Probably. But if he did, it would change his entire view of what HE believes being the SHSL Hope means.

I was going to think on doing a decently lengthy writeup on this, and how I like Makoto (I found Hajime to be unnecessarily cynical at times), but people have said a lot of what I would've. I never fully understood the flak he got. Though that being said I totally agree that Naegiri's canon. The only other ship that I'd put in the canon category (without having to think on it) with them is Kuzupeko.

First of all, I think he is a pretty good character to be the player. He is relatable, doesn't have defining talents or personality quirks and is thus a good self-insert.

I think makoto is pretty naive. As far as I remember he hardly questions anyone about whether they are genuine or not. But in spite of this, he is actually one of the more competent ones (probably because you are playing as him). The most illustrating of his naivity is that at one point you have to trust kyoko at her word. It actually gets you executed and only due to a lucky copout does he survive. I remember I thought I screwed up by trusting her when I saw the execution.

Also, he serves as an example that even goodwill can survive. It was luck but I guess that's why he is the ultimate lucky student. He was the one who always believed in the others, from the begining to the end, in a rather hostile environment ( a serial killer, a guy who keeps hinting at he's just waiting for the opportune moment to kill and a girl who you know nothing about except that she is exceptionally skilled at handeling corpses). The others who survive the killing game are paranoia/secretive (byakuya/kyoko) or just along the ride (the rest).

This is amazing.

Character Discussion #27 - Byakuya Togami DR2 (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Impostor

Game: Goodbye Despair

Status: Comatose

Notable Roles:

Declares leadership over the DR2 cast and promises they will be safe

Receives threat of murder and organizes party in Chapter 1 to keep everyone in one place so he can watch them

Stabbed to death after wrestling Nagito Komaeda away from the knife he planted and shoving him away

Later revealed to not be Byakuya Togami but an Impostor

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Impostor, Byakuya Togami!

I'm a huge fan of the Ultimate Imposter. For one, he's a brilliant but simple concept of building a character out of someone who is supposed to have no characteristics, essentially the naked gray blackened dude made into a character. I was a fan of Mukuro's free time events and the writing style behind having an entire set of free time events read differently before and after you get certain knowledge in the game.

Now, for the big thing: the Ultimate imposter was there solely to fuck with you the whole game. As far as the overall story is concerned, everything about him is designed to be a red herring. From the moment you boot the game, you think "What? Nah, that's not Byaku—what the hell his name is Byakuya Togami." He didn't have a twist where he tried to kill someone in chapter 1, he's not the traitor or the mastermind either and wasn't secretly Byakuya. His other role was likely to be there for people who played the first game to have a familiar face to help them adjust while getting used to the new cast.

The first thing you learn about the Ultimate imposter upon meeting him is that he's really competent. The opening shows Hajime is quite panicky compared to everyone else, and early on, Hajime rushes to think up ideas to escape the island. The game takes the time to have the UI shooting down all of Hajime's suggestions, warning him that making rafts for 16 people will cause problems if they don't know where they are and if they'll have enough food, among other things. Hajime then says "who cares" to Usami's rules, to which the UI warns him not to do anything if they don't know who or what it is or what would happen if they broke the rules. Hajime is lucky this isn't DR 1, as he'd probably end up getting Mukuro'd if he hadn't listened. UI has a lot of similarities to Kyoko in this respect.

Even before that, he's the one to deduce that Hajime is the last student to show up, the one to ask if everyone experienced the same feeling when they entered the door. He's the first to pick up on the difference in the park when the "bomb" is placed there at the beginning. He delivers the biggest warning of all, noting that suspecting everyone is the largest threat to everyone's safety.

All of this is to establish that the Ultimate Imposter has really thought things through. From the moment you see him, he's already thinking through everything around him in great detail. Once he's appointed as leader, the game takes the time to show that both Nekomaru and Sonia are fine with him as a leader, despite the fact that both of them would make for fine leaders themselves and also have leadership based ultimate talents. Half his screentime in the main story is spent asking questions and making deductions. He builds an entire countermeasure to Nagito's plan all based on a threatening letter. The guy really thinks things through.

It's not just that though. He still reaches out to everyone whenever he can. I mentioned in the Ibuki discussion that she's very emotionally intelligent and was able to have a thorough understanding of Hajime within minutes of meeting him. The UI seems to have a similar ability, which should come as no surprise given that his talent is all about knowing people to be able to convincingly mimic their personality. (Cue the Ibuki x UI shippers jumping for joy now) Ibuki also seems genuinely impressed with the guy his whole time. He pretty much has to. He picks up on Hajime's insecurity regarding his talent pretty quickly and that's a large portion of his FTEs, all well before the game really starts to focus on this part of Hajime. He picks up on Fuyuhiko's insecurity without having to know much about him and reaches out to him too, all without Fuhyuhiko actually revealing anything about himself. They're also kind enough to misdirect us into thinking this is the real Byakuya saying all this.

It's unclear exactly what his true personality is like since he's impersonating someone, but it makes for a wonderful contrast to see one of the most empathetic and supportive characters in the series impersonating one of the biggest pricks in the series. Some of it is probably the fact that everyone is in a dangerous killing game, but he ends up letting more of his real personality slip through, but the bigger thing is that the UI is just too empathetic and kindhearted. Most of his more condescending comments seem to just be thrown out to sell everyone on the Byakuya image. In his FTEs, you'll notice that he gradually sounds more and more supportive as the conversation progresses and then you'll suddenly see him toss out something a little more rude. It's pretty much that he noticed that he got a bit carried away and has to pull back to his "disguise."

Whole he's supportive, he's still got his own share of insecurities. Being an imposter means you see everything from a third person perspective and don't engage with people as yourself. It's the best way to explain how he's so emotionally intelligent. However, he sees more and more that it strips him of any meaningful connections. It means by nature he has to abandon people if found out. It's a handy talent, but is very isolating by nature. There is a fan theory out there that he's one of the siblings in the real Byakuya's family competition who lost and was stripped of his identity, so I won't dwell too much on it, but it's still another interesting angle.

He gets picked on by Hiyoko and is more touched by the fact that he gets to exist now. His FTEs with Hajime show a very mutual bond between the two. The UI goes out of his way multiple times to offer to support Hajme and makes sure to address his insecurity regarding his talent.

UI: Just make sure you don't get in my way. A Commoner should know their place and stay put.

UI: …

UI: However...if there is anything troubling you, I don't mind if you rely on me.

And another one:

UI: If there's anything worrying you, just let me know any time. No need to hold back.

In exchange, he starts to show off his own, and Hajime still returns the favor.

Hajime: The only Byakuya I know is the person standing in front of me.

UI: Thank you. I…I always wanted someone to say that to me.

The UI is a fine example of how to handle characters that have to unfortunately be the ones to get killed off early. They still gave us a great story in such a short time with the guy, and while he set off way too many death flags to have any shot at surviving, I still love this guy and the fact that he was a part of the DR 2 cast. Him not only going as far as doing body checks, locking up potential weapons, and then dying to protect everyone and making sure nobody dies secures him as one of the most intelligent, competent, empathetic, and supportive members in all of Danganronpa. Good going, UI.

[S]Chiaki always talked about trying to prevent the killings, but it did feel like the Impostor was the most proactive in actually going about trying to stop it and that earns some brownie points with me.

That's true. In her defense, it's a lot harder to deal with the other motives. I still don't think she did all that much, but you're in an awkward position dealing with the despair disease or being starved to death and having no way out besides killing.

[S]Yeah, but how Chapter 2 was handled really puzzled me. I'm surprised even moreso that Fuyuhiko cleared it before her too.

If only Byakuya was there, he'd probably end up some watchdog over it.

he'd probably end up some watchdog over it.

I could see that happening

System restore?

"Hey, are they just recycling voice clips for that guy? What lazy ba---actually, come to think of it, I think they're using the same sprite postures for---wait, his hair---his glasses---his face---wait, what? WHAT??"

I don't think my first experience with Twogami was dissimilar to everyone else's, and it instantly makes him striking. Honestly, as a character, Twogami offers little; he is Togami's extreme sense of pride due to his position mixed with either a mistaken view of his personality or simply the imposter's own sense of altruism. Not much to add beyond that. I daresay he's not a character at all; I feel like he's explicitly a tool of the narrative. But he is a damn good one.

His mere inclusion and presence is a practical joke on everyone who played the first game and jumped into the second. This is meant to be an entirely new class, but here's a repeat student. He may look different and act measurably different, but he's still distinctly Togami. Questions flood through your head. How and why is this character who survived to the end of the first game suddenly here? Why does he look so different but use the same voice clips and sprite positions? Is this the same Togami? Is this some sort of parallel dimension like Chrono Cross?

A character being there that, by all accounts, should not be there. Twogami is an anomaly, in the purest sense of the word. His inclusion not only causes a massive upset to everyone who played the first game, it also gets the mind racing about the class itself and Jabberwock Island. When is everything here happening that can allow for Togami to be here, if it's Togami at all and who knows and aaaahhhhh

And just after Twogami vaguely alludes he might tell you what's up, he is the first murder victim. His death leaves a gulf of unanswered questions in its wake. But that's fine. He rocked the boat enough in the first hour to really spur the overarching mystery of the entire game, and his death may not spark more confusion, but it offers the idea that you may not get a conclusive answer to the questions you're looking for at all.

It is not until hours later, when over half the cast is dead, that we finally found out what is up with Togami being on Jabberwock Island. While looking through the yearbook trying to get other clues, Hajime and Chiaki discover a student profile that states only their talent: the Ultimate Imposter. They don't quite connect the dots at first, but then Monokuma appears and tells them straight up that Twogami was just an imposter; he was not the real Byakuya Togami.

This is actually brilliant. The question as to Togami's presence on the island lingers in the back of your mind, because as a player of DR1, it screws with your perception of the setting. Then Monokuma comes in and just gives you the simplest explanation that he was a fake. One, this subverts the expected idea of big, bombastic reveals for everyone expecting some amazing explanation for a recurring character. Two, this narrows down what the final twist is going to be. If the two Togamis are separate people (and Monokuma has already said it's a post-apocalyptic world thanks to The Tragedy (I also love how underplayed this is)), then this is definitely not a FNAF2 situation where it was a prequel all along, nor is it some parallel dimension silliness. The real Togami is still out there somewhere, so it's still in the Danganronpa universe we know.

I don't want to oversell it too much, though. I get the feeling between his transient flavour as an actual character, and the fact that he dies first, that he was among the last characters to be added to the story. You can tell they didn't think much about his imposter talent because it's all the fanfiction writers that have had to make theories for what exactly it entails (though the situation may be different in a couple of months). For as much as I love the angle his mere inclusion presents, it's not an inherently necessary part of the game. Upon reflection, his "purpose" in the story seems the most transparent. He exists only to fuck with the heads of the Danganronpa veterans.

But he succeeds. I was initially skeptical about DR2 because I couldn't comprehend why a second killing game would even exist after the end of the first game and I didn't want things to be systematic and serialised, but seeing Togami be there when he shouldn't have been immediately got my attention and flipped my understanding of how the game was going to progress on its head. His appearance is literally short-lived, but in hindsight, it leaves a deep mark on the atmosphere of the game.

[S]Yeah it feels like after they were done with the main plot they thought "How could we mess with the players head" and thought of Fat Byakuya, then from there worked their justification of his existence into the game plot.

It allowed them to add more drama to, like in Ch 4 there's the confusion of seeing Actual Byakuya. The final reveal wasn't the most climatic but it was more of tying loose ends so it didn't need to be.

[S]I mean the devs seem to really love messing with your expectations for the first murder, or trying to. To their benefit it worked longer this time than with Sayaka for me cause I was genuinely confused as to what happened with him, but his change in behavior definitely rose some alarms.

Though honestly I realize they're really pushing for the HE'S THE ULTIMATE IMPOSTOR angle but it's really sort of ridiculous to me he doesn't even know his own name or family or no one knows his gender (they're?).

I'm actually quite upset about how early he died, as he seems like an in-depth character with lots of development potential. But I guess that's the price you pay to protect your friends, even though (nohateplz) Nagito didn't deserve to be saved, as he tried to commit the first murder just for the sake of having more people murder each other, and he didn't even regret it.

But enough about how Nagito deserved being impaled by a spear, and more about the Imposter. When playing through the game myself I liked his character a lot and tried to max his Free Time Events in the first chapter (I don't know k), and was quite disappointed in the fact that I had wasted 4 Events on someone that wasn't possible to max, but I'd learned some interesting stuff.

(I finished his 5th Event in island mode correct me if I quote anything from that) The Imposter was born without a name, identity or family, so they felt like they were nothing, almost worthless (kinda like Jatoro but not that worse). The only way they could become someone of worth was to imposter someone, and this made him so good at it that he became the Ultimate Imposter. This made me feel really bad for him as he could've gone a different way and not become Ultimate Despair if he had an identity but eventually fell into despair, DR3 Anime hype anyone?

I would like to know why he chose to imposter Byakuya Togami, as that was actually a pretty famous person and their body structure was quite different. Maybe he didn't mind to take the risk, or didn't care if anybody found out if he was an imposter, or maybe he was confident enough in his own imposter skills to be sure he wouldn't be found out. He WAS an Ultimate after all.

I'm hoping to get some more backstory on him in the anime in July, because I don't have much to say about him. I liked his character a lot, and would not have been surprised if he was one of the survivors, but if you're a nice guy you won't last long in Danganronpa. If he was a little ruder he would've maybe gotten a little bit more backstory, but then again, I probably would not have cared about him at all.

Also, Junko's turn next week. Can't decide between suicide and hype.

EDIT: Forgot to mention about how when I first played the game I thought he was the real Byakuya, Nagito was Makoto and Chiaki was Kyoko just to mess with us and I was sure they would all die even though they lived the first game (I was kinda right?)

[S] 
Makoto's a nice guy who makes it through! he also has protag plot armor though...

Is Junko's impending discussion giving you lots of... despair?

DESPAIR UPUPUPUPU

What does Makoto have to do with this tho

[S] 
Cause you said if you're a nice guy you won't last long, but Makoto is an example of a survivor.

Oh ofc xd

I anticipated him dying first, not only because he wanted to protect everyone and had the leader role, but because he would have provided answers to the story too soon. Assuming it was really Byakuya, substantial infos should have come up soon in his talks to Hajime, and since he was the Imposter, after the next free time event you would have known those hints about how he isn't Byakuya (which is surely why it's timed that you can't get the event before Island Mode in the normal story). I love that you could also get those hints by giving him gifts that the real Byakuya would actually love (that coffee and the math prize problems), but Twogami would only find average or dislike.

@Nagito: Well if you see it like that, then all the other murderers (especially Mikan) don't deserve getting saved either and that's not really the moral of the story. I think it's interesting how sometimes people keep hating on certain characters while it's IMHO pretty clear that Hajime would be able to forgive everyone, even though it would be harder with some than others (and Komaeda did act quite shitty in other ways too, like forcing everyone to kill Chiaki).

then all the other murderers (especially Mikan) don't deserve getting saved

but Mikan ;-;

have to agree on that though, but how about Peko, Gundham and Chiaki?

One of the cleverest characters in the game. I also like his chemistry with Ibuki. I hope to see more about him in the anime series.

Twogami is, by far, one of, if not THE most ingenious idea for a character ever thought of in a video game. And since many have already talked about him as a character in DR2, I want to approach this from a different angle...

Cast yourself back to whenever you finished the first game: you were probably too awed and emotionally spent to do anything at that point. However, after few hours of recovery, the first though in your mind probably was, "Is there a sequel for this game?"

Now, depending on when you finished the first game, your search results when you typed in 'Danganronpa 2' will vastly differ. However, regardless of when you first finished DR1, at one point, you would have come across a picture during your search for DR2. A certain Ultimate Affluent Progeny... except much, MUCH bigger.

Now, this IMMEDIATELY catches your attention, and brings forth SO many questions: why is he so fat? Why is he even in the second game? Does this mean it's a sequel? A prequel? Is he some kind of a hallucination, or a 'guide' to the entire game? Is it even Byakuya? At this point, the developers have already done their job: they hooked you into the story by just showing you ONE picture, and now committed you into buying the game, no matter how shitty it might turn out to be, just to see WHAT THE F*CK Byakuya is doing there.

Then, you get the game. You turn it on, and are immediately anticipating the first confrontation with Byakuya. Then, when it comes... your suspicions of him not being Byakuya immediately evaporates, only to be replaced by fresh questions: WHY is he here? Why is he acting like this is the first time this has ever happened to him? Did he get his memories wiped... AGAIN? Or is this a prequel. Wait, but he's so much nicer... that must mean this is after he learnt something from DR1... WTF IS GOING ON HERE???

Then, he dies. Just like that. Dead. First victim. All your questions, left unanswered. At this point, even if you DESPISE the game, you HAVE to play till the end. Just to find out about the truth about Byakuya... and by the time you do, you're already so invested in the story that you finish it. In fact, I would not be surprised to find out that over 90% of the people who played the 2nd game after finishing DR1 played through the entire game, just to find about the truth about Byakuya.

This honestly is the smartest marketing strategy I have seen for a video game ever. No fancy trailers , no stupid pre-order bonuses, no celebrity promotions. Just one single picture to get everyone who played the first game IMMEDIATELY invested in the story, and basically force them to buy DR2.

So yeah, while Twogami might not be my favourite character in terms of personality, role or appearance, if anyone asked me "What do you think was the smartest marketing strategy for a video game ever?", he would be my answer, hands down.

[S] 
The developers really like this misleading pre release info pattern, first they advertise Sayaka so she seems to be the main female role, and you see that in the first section of the game before she tries to kill.

Then they include Byakuya in DR2 and promo images to drive curiosity, before immediately killing him off.

Then the relatives of the DR1 cast in UDG were advertised about the same more or less with the Warriors of Hope, thinking they'd have decent plot involvement, and when actually playing you discover they're all one scene wonders basically.

I've learned from this devs, out of Ahoge Cyborg, Purple Nagito and New Girl shown so far of DRV3 I'm expecting one of them to be dead by the end of the first chapter.

The Ultimate Imposter....

I'll be frank and say that when I first saw "Byakuya", I didn't really buy for a moment that it was the same as the one from the first game. Suddenly putting on weight and suddenly showing up in a different class altogether were only two of the many factors that told me he was a fake.

So, just who is this guy really, and what is he really like under all the personas he portrays? Well, on your first time playing through DR2, you don't really have much to go on about him considering he's the game's first victim. While he's alive, the player only knows him as the same Affluent Progeny as the one from the first game, and since you most likely didn't know he was an Imposter at the time there was no reason to suspect he would act any differently. The only hints you really get are his new heavy build, the fact that he makes frequent mention of said build when comparing himself to others, and his surprisingly large appetite completely unlike what you would normally expect from the real Byakuya...then Chapter 5 comes along and now the cat's out of the bag that the "Byakuya Togami" you knew was actually the Ultimate Imposter all along. Only then does it makes sense as to why Byakuya put on all that weight, and why he's stuck in a new class in a new killing game.

Forgetting about his Byakuya persona, it becomes easier to see his true personality during his Free Time Events, of which the later ones heavily hint towards the fact that he is in fact an imposter and not the real deal. During them, you get the sense that he really cares about everyone and is genuine about keeping everyone alive, even while he's putting on Byakuya's signature arrogance. You also get to see that his true desire is to live a normal life, but because of the circumstances in which he was born in, no family, no history, no identity, nothing, the only way for him to do so is to become someone else. As such, it's no surprise that he would feel rather lonely on the inside.

Aside from his backstory, it's pretty see why his talent is ‘Ultimate Imposter': he does an exceptional job at mimicking the person he's impersonating. If I had to guess, the only thing that remains common regardless of who he impersonates, it would be his overweightness obviously, and his insatiable appetite (Would the real Byakuya be caught munching on that meat the same way that the Imposter did? Even if it did contain a dangerous item?).

Looking forward to the Despair arc, it will be interesting to see how he portrays the Ultimate Animator, Ryota Mitarai. Based on his character profile, I would imagine he will be much closer to his true personality than Byakuya, which begs the question as to what factors determine who the Imposter decides to impersonate.

I didn't buy into the "Togami's back and he's fat this time" angle, I knew either someone made robogami or impersonating him, but I still liked his character

I only realised that it isn't him after FTE where he was acting way more nicer and empathethic than real Byakuya.

I they're definitely interesting and unique. They're competent, down-to-earth, and collected. Although sometimes they can be a jerk (due to impersonating a giant jack-ass), I genuinely believe they're a good a person. I also like the fact that he willingly goes out of his way to try and protect everyone. Unlike a certain gamer that claims she'll never let a murder happen, but does nothing to prevent one. Sorry for the Chiaki shade. I also love how everything about them is red herring. Idk. They're an interesting character.

He is one of the characters I actually really want to see in the despair arc. Since he was killed off so early, it was hard to get a good grasp of who he really was.

Let me set the scene... I turn on the PSTV to start DR2 for the very first time. I see an incredibly fat blond kid with glasses. I think to myself, Oh, this is the "Hifumi" character for this game. I guess they need a fat character per game. He seems really grumpy. My roommate, who is playing with me, takes one look at him and says "That's Byakuya."

I argue, "No, of course it can't be Byakuya. Byakuya isn't fat. And besides, this is Danganronpa 2."

And then the boy speaks. A phrase we've heard a hundred times by now. My roommate looks over at me. "It sounds like Byakuya to me."

No.... I'm sure it's not Byakuya... is it? I-It...can't be...

It's actually quite a long time before the game reveals who this character actually is. In fact, his name is even last in the fake opening sequence of the game, so if there's any doubt in your mind you'll be teetering on the edge of hope and despair the entire time.

Twogami is essentially a character that most people hated from the first game, and bringing him back... and it's somehow really amazing. He promises to protect us. He seems like he's changed. He's 300 pounds for some reason. Aaaaaaaaand now he's dead.

I know we all complain about our favorite characters dying early on, but Twogami had so many mysteries surrounding him that it just seemed unfair. As someone else mentioned, I was broken up over his death, and now I had to play the entire game to understand why Byakuya was there... and why he died. (Well, why the developers allowed him to die.) Which we get the answers to, but not in the way we're expecting.

I'm usually not a fan of the "Imposter" angle, creating a character with no personality is a cop-out in my opinion, but it worked so well for this game. It's the first time I've played a game where an Imposter pretends to be someone we already know... and actually tricks us. As well as playing through is FTEs - especially the last ones that you can't see in your normal playthrough - he isn't just a blank slate. His real personality seeps out. He isn't confident about his ability to lead, he's insecure and confused about his own identity, and sees Togami as someone he could become to change. And he's kind - too kind to even play Togami properly.

Twogami manages to be one of the deepest characters in the entire game, and he only lives for one chapter. I'm beyond excited for the anime, and especially because I really hope we get some focus on him, and even more depth for his character. But even if they don't, I am still satisfied with what we get with him.

I loved his character. With "Ryota Mitarai" in the anime getting some development I am seeing more and loving more of the character. To be frank, Togami and Kirigiri are great, intelligent characters... but they can be assholes. This guy seems to have some untainted warmth within him that is rare in a person let alone a person in a killing game. The arrogance is completely forgiven with how devoted he was to protecting his allies, even Nagito. And the fact is, Togami wasn't that. Togami didn't really give a shit at first who died and who lived as long as he came out on top, meaning that the caring persona we see is all the Impostor's true heart.

A great mystery and a genuinely lovely guy who'd die for friends he met the other day, gotta give him respect :) .

At first I was laughing, like "fat version of Byakuya? lol".

But then I started to really like him. He was way more likeable than real Byakuya. He was a great leader! Scene where he started eating meat on the skewer with an excuse "it's a weapon!" was super funny. And then, in few minutes, he suddenly died.

Initially I thought he was one of (real) Byakuya's brothers, who failed at the Togami family games/challenges (as mentioned in DR 1 free time) for the title of Ultimate Affluent Progeny. That would explain, in my mind, his less ruthless personality and caring for others, which (real) Byakuya would probably have seen as a weakness.

I really wonder how he could impersonate Byakuya, considering he should have met him before the Killing School Trip (thus preserving the memories to pull it off).

he was one of (real) Byakuya's brothers, who failed at the Togami family games/challenges (as mentioned in DR 1 free time) for the title of Ultimate Affluent Progeny.

It hasn't been confirmed at all but I actually still believe this is true. It's why I believe he saw Byakuya as someone he wanted to be, and also why he was able to impersonate him so well.

The imposter is a character that simultaneously excels at his job and baffles me at how nobody catches on.

First the good. He looks almost identical to Togami apart from the obvious weight difference. He also acts like Togami as far as holding up his skills and demeanor of superiority.

On the other hand, he's a lot more concerned about others than Togami prime. His one obvious physical difference is something not easily explained away. Also, he likes junk food while rich Togami hates it.

However, even most players get fooled by him. In fact, until the reveal of him being the Ultimate Imposter, most of the people I've seen play the game never realized Togami hadn't somehow gotten roped into another round of slaughter. Granted, they only had 1 chapter to figure it out before he croaked, but still a pretty solid margin. Overall, it's probably the best one could expect from someone that can fake being anyone.

Character Discussion #28 - Junko Enoshima (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Fashionista

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc, Goodbye Despair, Ultra Despair Girls

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Also known as Ultimate Despair, the mastermind behind a majority of events that span every Danganronpa game

Controls Monokuma, influenced and corrupted the members of Ultimate Despair, machinated and planned the Tragedy

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Fashionista, Junko Enoshima!

Junko is a strangely divided antagonist. I don't really have much to say for her as a character. She does her job well enough. We get some silliness, some randomness, and those beautiful lines where she drops all the craziness and is just dark and empty, like her "does that sound like ‘hope' to you" line in DR 2 trial 6. She's also insanely manipulative, but I'll get to that in a second.

I'd wager that most people here are going to discuss whether or not they consider her a strong antagonist, and this kind of thing goes beyond the discussion of Danganronpa because how good an antagonist you consider her will pretty much come down to what you're looking for in a villain. Some villains in storytelling can be driven by a specific event or something in their backstory that makes them what they are. "I want to kill this man to avenge my father" is an example. "I've been abused by my family and it warped me severely over the years" is another. There's some sort of back event or trigger that morphed the person, and even if it doesn't justify their actions, it does at least explain their behavior for you.

You've got villains like Junko though, who act as more forces of nature than they do reasons. Why does Junko like despair? Because reasons. I can see why some people are kind of put off by that, but I personally don't like Monaca as a villain because I feel the childhood abuse angle for an entire motivation for her actions and the dependency on Junko angle stretches things a bit too much. More on that in her profile though. With Junko, I'm fine with her not having a well-developed motive because she's acting more as a malignant force than she is a person driven by something. I feel these type of villains make for the best overarching/main villains than they do ones for a single game, and we've just been mostly put in an awkward position because writing in villains for a running series (when you aren't sure of how long it'll go for) can be really tricky.

I think a good example would be the main villain of the anime Monster Farm. He's similar to Junko in that we don't know much about him—the only backstory is that he's a war monster created solely to destroy and is pretty much a stand-in for nuclear war. The series shows that he's driven by exploiting hatred within people the same way Junko does with despair. He'll taunt his enemies solely to get that out of them. For example, he taunts one of the main characters and brings up the fact that they had to kill their younger brother just to get that rage out of them. He works as a great final boss villain, but they don't make him the main focus of the series. Instead, we see his influence through the 4 focus villains that act as his subordinates and are the higher ups of his organization. Each of these villains are all driven by something like being enslaved, being insecure, taking revenge, and so on. They have very human qualities even if their actions are unjustifiable, and I think this is the kind of thing we would want to see with Junko.

As a villain, I think Junko works really well and is excellent. Do I think she's perfectly played out? No. But I think the issue isn't so much Junko as a character and more the fact that the type of villain she is works better when you have subordinates to bounce off of.

I like Mukuro's free time events in part because we don't see some crazy psycho bitch, but instead see a woman hesitant on a life path being influenced by her sister. We've seen this kind of thing where we have a much more sympathetic character with a relationship with something that's otherwise seen as inhuman, but Danganronpa 1 doesn't really get much time to develop it or focus it more just due to the setup of the game. Mukuro only gets a few FTEs and she gets killed off very early, so we don't get the benefit of seeing much out of her.

Danganronpa 2 brought us an amazing twist where the entire cast is this group of higher ups influenced by Junko. I personally see a bit of Junko every time I see any of the DR 2 cast FTEs because I see what a malignant force she was on them and we see the struggle of them renouncing their status with her at the end and facing their pasts. But again, this happens at the same time where everyone was expecting a completely different villain, so it's no surprise it's met with a bit of hesitation. I wasn't someone who was bummed about Junko returning, but I think she instead needs to be elevated to an overarching villain of the series since she's the leader and mastermind behind the entire organization in the game. We get more focus on the mastermind rather than the subordinates, so I think having more focus on the other members of ultimate despair would be one of the best ways to go about things. We can then have the same effect and see the mindset Junko has put her subordinates into and get the fuller feel for how dangerous she is. That brings me to my last point about her.

One of the things I like about Junko is how non-threatening she really is when you strip away her influential abilities. She's a teenage girl, is quite thin, and could easily just be shot or something. Even her sister is far more athletic and dangerous, so on paper, Mukuro sounds like she'd pose a much greater threat. But you can see that this is the same woman who places people into the mindset she wants them in and that alone was enough to spark a mass suicide, enough to recruit members of ultimate despair, and so on. It's pretty interesting to think about, but it means that Junko has an incredibly high understanding of people and their feelings. The only difference is that she just exploits the hell out of that and ruins lives with it, but if she wasn't ultimate despair, she'd make for one hell of a therapist. (Ultimate Analyst anyone?)

It's not as simple as convincing everyone that her way of thinking is great. Instead, she just picks away and calls out all the holes in the way of thinking of her opponents. In Trial 6 of DR 2, she compels everyone to join in simply by picking apart what the DR 1 trio was pointing out rather than saying despair is awesome. She convinces everyone that the "hope" the other side is pushing for is there to validate everyone except those caught in the struggle. She doesn't tempt you with things you don't want. She instead frames the situation to seem like despair is the only way, not that despair is amazing in itself. A friend of mine put this nicely when he finished the game:

"Once Makoto and the crew showed up, it became more about a tug-of-war, almost as if both parties were demanding validation; they wanted an answer, to feel justified in their position, to pin down the opposing side. Hajime simply wanted a future, so instead of answering to either side, he reminded the others of their resolve and they made a group decision. That's really where the beauty of this ending stands: there are no answers, only choices."

Junko has a counterargument ready for pretty much every reason the FF has to why they should do the shutdown, and it's how she operates for pretty much everything.

"Does that sound like ‘hope' to you?" She doesn't praise despair at all in the last part of her speech, but simply eliminates all the other options—she makes it seem like there's no choice.

All in all, I think Junko works magnificently for a villain, and she's someone I'd love to see as the overarching evil that still affects everyone even well after dying. I'm fine with new villains acting as subordinates to show off more and act as the result of her influence and that's probably what'd be the best decision for the series now. Lots of video games run into the dilemma of what to do for the series if you end up killing off the villain. Bring them back over and over and you get something of a bowser/ganon situation. Throw in new villains each time and you have to redevelop from scratch and risk having a really disconnected series if it's supposed to be a flowing narrative. Seeing something of a sly Cooper situation where you compromise between old and new with your main villain. Having the overarching villain with subordinates being influenced strikes me as the happy medium that Danganronpa is looking for, and I think Junko is an excellent choice for that big bad villain.

I think you summed up Junko's character pretty well. I personally really like Junko as a character and I like how she is characterized throughout the different works, but at the same time, i never see her as a real character. I like the way that Junko is this force where it doesn't matter if Junko the person is dead. Junko's influence on the world of Danganronpa for me is something that will not be erased for a really long time and I like how Danganronpa since the first game has explored that. Junko, the living embodiment of despair, may be dead, but Junko, the symbol of Despair, is something that may never truly disappear.

I don't know how many people have read the series Jojo's Bizarre Adventure, but I think a character that serves a very similar role is Dio. While the circumstances are different and his influence is much smaller on the overall world than compared to Junko, but all of Jojo's main parts have some connection to Dio, no matter how big or small, and I reallly like how Junko is basically that for Danganronpa.

My biggest criticism of Junko is honestly the twist around her in the first game. I LOVE the "One of us is not who we say we are" trope and Danganronpa completely botched it by making the main villain a character we had never met before. Oh and they're also a twin of a character we have met. Yeah

I don't mind villains that are "forces of nature." I like the Joker and hell, I even like Monokuma. I didn't really like Junko in the first game but whatever, I can deal with her for a case. But then making her some girl who wants to spread despair in the first game to "literally the reason why the world ended" in the second...yeah, I don't like her

I think a big reason I don't like her is actually cause "spread despair" is such a shaky motive to me. I don't mind villains who enjoy the suffering of others but her motive in of itself is so vague so when someone says that it's just "spreading despair", it'll seem pretty cheesy and not well thought out

Plus I thought that coupled with her motive, the whole changing personalities thing felt like the writers were trying too hard. A "Look at how crazy she is, right guys?!" kind of thing

I...have mixed feelings about Junko. On one hand, I love her as a character. Being the crazy multi personality girl that she is, she is the perfect personification of Despair, the evil driving force of the series.

On the other hand, as the main antagonist? What did she really do besides being the instigator; influencing the other people who are the real perpetrators of all the dark deeds of the series? I know that she is ultimately the source of The Biggest, Most Awful, Most Tragic Event in Human History, but it is hard to think of her as a villain you can really hate since she rarely has a direct role in any of the conflicts. All of the bad stuff that happens during the series was done by someone else that she influenced: the Ultimate Despairs, the killers during the Hope's Peak Academy Killing School Life, etc.

I always got the sense that Monokuma, the entity she was parading as, was more of a fitting antagonist than she herself was. Think about it, in both DR1 and DR2, Monokuma was considerably more manipulative and devious. The fact that he seemed to be in control of everything that the respective classes in those games were experiencing meant that there was always this sense of dread and hopelessness when it comes to trying to oppose him. The moment he got exposed as Junko however, is when that power seemed to all go away. In both games, as soon as Junko was revealed, defeating her was relatively easy compared to what it was like trying to put up with her as Monokuma, and both times she ultimately failed to make the survivors fall into despair.

Overall, I like her character, but IMHO she is too weak of a main antagonist to be recurring for this long. I fully expect there to be another person in charge of Monokuma in the DR3 Future Arc (Or just have Monokuma be his own self for once). Also, when V3 rolls around, if there IS another mastermind, I hope that they will be a bigger bad than Junko.

I fully expect there to be another person in charge of Monokuma in the DR3 Future Arc.

I certainly don't, in fact I would be pretty annoyed if she doesn't appear at all in the future anime of Hope's Peak when she's the main antagonist. I don't want some big bad wannabe to come in last minute that would be lame. Monaka I could just about tolerate but some newbie? No thanks.

Also, when V3 rolls around, if there IS another mastermind,

There WILL be someone else, its the whole point of V3. The mastermind MAY have connections to Junko, otherwise that's it.

[deleted]

I don't want to speculate on V3's cast too much, since we don't know if it is indeed a far future sequel, or in an entirely new universe altogether.

Okay bear with me as this may be quite a long rant of mine.

But first for those that don't understand Junko so well I suggest you start by watching This video Its a good analysis of her character and whilst you may not agree with this completely. It should give you more of an idea on her character and how she's not just "a psycho bitch that screams Despair all the time!".

As for me personally I feel Junko/Monokuma is what made DR so distinct or unique as a series. Her antics of being terrifying one moment and then outright hilarious the next, I thoroughly enjoyed every moment of and she became one of my all-time favourite villains.

Now I know that across the DR fandom, Junko has a mixed reception where fans either like or dislike her. One of the biggest reasons I've seen as to why people dislike her is because of her reason for doing all this ("Despair") being retarded/lame/boring. Now regarding this issue, it leads to the question: "Does a character need a traumatic background in order to become evil?" Or even any kind of deep reasoning for their actions, in other words a Well-intentioned extremist to be a successful/good villain? My answer to that is no you don't need to and you only to need to look at Joker from Batman as a prime example to know this. In fact I would argue that the most successful villains are ones that have no morality or horrible background and do deeds purely "for the evilz".

Moving back to Junko, Kodaka actually stated in an interview that Junko is more terrifying and successful as a villain because her past is unknown and she has a crazy motive. So If I were to speculate from everything we DO know about her, For those who have read DR0 you would know that Junko's true talent isn't SHSL Gyaru or SHSL Despair, its SHSL Analyst, where she observes other people's talents and makes it her own, you only need to see AI Junko to know this is the case. This is the very reason why she is constantly in despair, because she is so vastly superior to everyone else as a human being she finds it all so very boring and tries all sorts of things to keep herself entertained.

You can see this with her "multiple-personalities", she constantly changes personality to keep herself entertaining as you should all know, she values her identity as an entertainer a lot, this is all to prevent herself from getting bored. Of course Junko is no idiot and she knows there are times when she needs to go with the flow of society, which she did for the sake of her Tragedy plan. Which leads to the whole irony of what Hope's Peak did. The very talent they were looking for was right under their nose and instead they create Izuru Kamakura. Izuru being the "artificial" whereas Junko was the "natural". That very talent also being the one that brought Hope's Peak's downfall as well.

Another thing people overlook about Junko was her plan in the second game "Junkofication of Mankind plan." It may seem far-fetched at first but if you look more into Junko's character it fits her perfectly. As I said earlier, Junko is a superior being to everyone else to the point she finds them all too simple and predictable and by turning everyone into "her", that issue wouldn't exist anymore. With Junko's superior intellect, the Junkofied people would become unpredictable and entertaining, creating an ideal world for Junko that ties in with her characterization.

"But how is Junko superior to everyone when she was defeated by Naegi in DR1?" Well as even Naegi himself hinted in DR:AE, because Junko is so superior, she intentionally creates flaws in her plans to give people the chance to exploit them, which not only gives her a chance to be put into despair, it also keeps things entertaining. She would find it incredibly boring if everything went accordingly.

Its actually a shame that this character discussion comes just a few weeks before the anime because I believe the "Despair" anime will shed a new light on Junko's character and show us all just how cunning, manipulative and beautiful she is as she brings the SDR2 cast to her side. As most of the time we've only seen her in Class trials.

And that's the end of my rant, if you are still reading then I would like to thank you for spending your time reading my post whether you agree or disagreed with it.

Teehee "bear"

So you noticed? :)

Keep in mind I have yet to watch the video, but based upon what you wrote, I find it interesting about how things tie into one another with Junko, but can't help but feel she's a Mary Sue.

Junko is not only my favourite DR1 character, but my overall favourite from the series as a whole, so I'm probably a little biased in my praise for her as a character. I understand people not particularly liking her because she's pretty flat and shallow as a character compared to the rest of DR's cast, and is DRs' villain purely for the sake of being the villain, but those are attributes that actually really appeal to me personally.

I agree with Kodaka in regards too "I didn't give Junko a backstory because I think that giving villains back stories is cheating." in a sense. I'm not convinced that's actually what he meant though. In some cases a villain having a backstory to explain their actions makes sense, even a necessity to understanding the character in greater detail. It wasn't needed in Junko's case, because I don't believe that's what Danganronpa is trying to say with her. In a meta-sense, I believe that telling us Junko's backstory just to explain her motives would've fallen flat no matter what. It would've either: too unrealistic, too overly sob story-ish (which is the norm with female villains), or too hamfisted into both end-game trials and break the pace of the current plot events (explaining the secrets of The Tragedy/the missing memories, or the virtual world/DR2 casts reveal as former Ultimate Despair members). At the end of the day Junko is the charismatic, psychopathic leader of a massive terrorist organization that succeeded in causing the apocalypse and masterminded both killing games. That's all you really need in the context of the story. So Kodaka is right when he says that the backstory would've been cheating - it would've done her character a disservice. I quite like that he wrote a female villain who was just plainly evil and malicious. You don't see that a lot in media, and Danganronpa excels at writing varied and interesting female characters in general, so I really liked that direction with Junko.

Even though I said above she's flat and shallow, for me that's just a skin-deep reading of Junko's character. There's a few points in both games where her lines subtley suggested a deeper emotion than just "evil". Sure, spreading despair to everyone is her main goal, and she acknowledges the inherent wrongness and malice in that, but it seems to also be some twisted form of love to her. It's how she shows affection. You can gleam that from how she talks about her sister, Mukuro, in DR1, and how killing her was the highest form of love she could ever show her sister. She was jealous of the fact that Mukuro got to die knowing her own sister killed her. The highest form of love you can get from Junko, it seems, note how in the series she only directly kills people who seem to actually have some meaning to her (Mukuro, Matsuda, herself). It's a fascinating twist on love.

It's the same with the DR1 cast, Junko chose them to play her killing game and not change them into Ultimate Despair because she had grown somewhat fond of them after spending 2 years with them as classmates, unlike with the DR2 cast, who were just random pawns to her. Of course she immediately claims that as a lie, but when compared with the situation with Mukuro, that claim seems a little murky.

At the end of it however, her nihilistic view on the world and people in general, combined with the strange form of love she has for her sister and her classmates, works to form a really interesting character reading for me that's not really plainly spelled out for you. It's showing and not telling, which tends to be what I prefer when it comes to characters. You get the sense that something must have happened to make her this way, but we'll never know. Junko doesn't want anyone to know, and she is now dead. It's buried history forever, and it amplifies the hopeless feeling you get just from watching her. Junko doesn't want you to see her as a flawed and weak human being, she wants to be seen as a perfect harbinger of despair and misery that no one will ever be able to truly understand. It's just another way to try and break people. It's the core of her personality, and her many personality changes. Junko is a character you WON'T understand. You can only just react to her. That seems to be the intent behind her character in my opinion.

Of course, that's my "deep" reasoning and analysis on why I like her as a villain. Here's the more shallow reasoning: she's hilarious to watch. Every line of hers is pure gold in a darkly comedic way. Both when she is acting as 'Monokuma' and when she is just 'Junko Enoshima'. They're both the same character. Just like with Monokuma, you can laugh at her and also acknowledged how fucked up she is at the same time. Her various personalities are amazing spins on the generic anime archetypes. You can tell the writer and artist had a hell of time creating the lines and sprites for her. It helps to liven up what can otherwise be very exposition-filled final trials (which she tends to lampshade as well). It's needed to keep the player engaged.

Her character design is also just my favourite in the whole series. The colours and style and that hair are just nice to look at. It perfectly encapsulates Danganronpa as a series alongside her personality. It also helps to expand on her character. She's a famous fashion guru. Her whole talent is based around crafting appearances and personas to appeal to a wide range of the general public. It's foreshadowing her ability to charm people into joining her cause without thought, and serves as a way to make her various personality changes appear more alien and false to the other students. Again, to make her seem above boring everyday humans.

TL;DR Junko is deliberately a "villain for the sake of being a villain" and revels in it, but also in my opinion, isn't as shallow as she appears to be, she's hilarious to watch, she helps make the endgames as great as they are, she's a fascinating character who you could ponder about forever, is well designed and written, and she's a great example of a female villain who isn't bogged down by terrible female villain tropes. Plus I just like how inherently feminine she is. All of this gels with me and is what I like to see in characters, so she's my favourite.

I'm sorry for the giant wall of text. I've been keeping up with the character discussions for a while now and since it was Junko's, I finally felt the need to join and post my thoughts. I really enjoy this series a lot since I read the SA LP and would love to talk about it with other people! I kind of wish I'd joined earlier and posted in everyone else's character threads, haha. I could talk about these characters for days. I won't necropost old threads and be THAT newbie, though!

In a meta-sense, I believe that telling us Junko's backstory just to explain her motives would've fallen flat no matter what.

applaud Exactly right Junkobears, what some of these people that dislike Junko don't seem to get is that trying to find a good reason in what she's done would of made her worse not better as a character.

I quite like that he wrote a female villain who was just plainly evil and malicious. You don't see that a lot in media,

Tell me about it, these type of female characters are practically non-existent.

Overall a good post Junkobears I enjoyed reading it.

[S]... A lot of people seem to really 'waifu' her, which is a scary thought. I guess the crazy psychotic near apathy for everyone close to her is a positive??? Just look at poor Matsuda.

She's not a particularly deep or too interesting of a character, but she's surely an entertaining one. After three end game appearances though, I'm ready to switch out with someone new, which DRV3 will hopefully provide.

I swear to everything if it's Junko Enoshima again...

"Danganronpa 3: holy shit how is it her again''

Agreed, her being in the first game was obviously necessary, the second game having her made sense and was an awesome twist. Third game though... its time to replace her.

[S]Yeah, UDG was standable since her role was so tiny and it was basically just an explanation/lead up to DR2, but I am perfectly fine with no more Junko and DRV3 is supposed to be a reboot anyway.

The misleading clues up to the DR2 Junko re-reveal was great too though, I agree.

Good point. And I agree, the clues were great. Honestly, reflecting back on DR2, it was a lot better than DR1 in my opinion.

Junko is very divided character for me...while i like her when she is being monokuma, i really don't like her entire character after all. Let's be honest, who didn't like a crazy psychopath character? I have a lot of fav ones such as Rena, Yuno etc. Though they played important roles in the animes that they are in, Junko in the game(and anime) can be a bit boring since the authors constantly use her a lot of things. At first, you looks at her and see "Oh, a crazy psychopath character! Can't wait to see more of her!" But after you see so much of her, you can get a bit bored and that was my case. When i finished DR1, i admit i got suprised that junko had a twin sister and how a bit crazy and wicked her execution was. But when she revealed to be in DR2 with a new plan and involved in a lot more things...i got pretty divided. It suprised me but i do think that was already enough of her because as a villain, she already did her job about what she did to the remnants of despair, the tragedy, to yasuke, izuru etc.

Now you may ask: "What makes monokuma more enjoyable than junko?" Simple, he didn't talk so much about despair and his funny yet cruel personality make him a enjoyable character because it's something that define him, while i think junko sometimes force herself to be funny and crazy using miley cyrus as a reference, sticking her tongue out with her constantly talk about despair and some repetitives attitudes aswell, because you can predict how she would be in every personality that she have.

Overall, Junko sometimes is kinda forced to be a crazy character with some repetitive catchphrases and attitudes. Her multiple personalities can be annoying if you are used to her acting like this. Through, she is a bit powerless compared to monokuma, while she use only the words for make people fall in despair, monokuma uses the attitudes, words and manipulation. Not to mention...seriously? Defeated two times when she got revealed? Why no one tried to do that with monokuma? Simple, because the students from both games got overwhelmed by how he was strong and what he could do after what happened to Mukuro.

Even though she has done all of these horrible things we never actually see her do them, and when we finally see her at the end of the game(s) she seems like such a fun character, so it's hard to really hate her. That is why i prefer Monaca as a villain.

Okay her being the main bad guy for first game is awesome, I like the whole split personality crazy bitch thing she does.

But to do the same thing again on the second game? Come on man, I mean it's so anti-climatic to know that the second game's boss is the same as the first one. Quite blatantly, I am bored by her. There is no WTF moments from her personality anymore. Like, you kinda already knew her everything.

WOOOT WOOOT! BEST GIRL ALERTL!!! Seriously, Junko has probably been the most interesting thing about danganronpa to me. The process of turning into the embodiement of despair, it really amazes me. For 4 reasons

She is a villain you actually want to learn about as opposed to "oh, she's just evil." WHY? BECAUSE SHE WAS YOUR CLASSMATE! That despair-inducing twist is what really made her character an instant best. You saw her die, and then she came back to become the one that killed all of your friends.

Monokuma is Junko. How beautiful is that? The moment the kinda sassy junko(junko wrote mukuro's lines) from the beginning of the killing game becomes the ultimate sassmaster punmaker most zany villain, you just have to love her even more. Monokuma is such a lovable character and it makes sense that his craziness just makes Junko even better.

Those gosh damn amazing final scenes. They are literally the only parts of any game I could go through OVER AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN. She has multiple personalities. Not like Fukawa, with one gloomy boring personality and one pretty kool twist. She has like seven zany ones. Punk, "kawaii", depressed, monotone, monarch, Byakuya, and just your normal classmate. Having each one of these keep switches makes her unpredictable. I like unpredictability, it makes games fun. This attention to detail and how she's just not a "oh boo hoo i'm bad" makes her a billion times better than any other villain.

Zero. God I loved that book. She actually has a backstory. She has a pure self where she is good. She has a male love interest who is as chill as an ice cube. And once you fit together the pieces and realize the crazy junko killing off old men is mukuro and YOU were Junko, it adds another layer to why Junko isn't a boring villain. She has ultra-analytical skills. That's why she could take over the world with her cult. She also has a backstory now. She had a youth, wasn't totally alone with mukuro. She had her first tastes of despair toying and crushing this boy's emotions. I was amazed by Yasuke and Junko's final lines. She says "what if I was the one that got your mother killed" and Boom, just wreck his life right there. An amazing villain. Probably the best villain of all time for me.

Junko seems to me to be two things.

First, she's the corruptor character. Pretty much everything she does would have been impossible if not for people like Mukuro, Monaca, Izuru etc. being convinced by her to do so.

Second, Junko. Is. Despair. She's so obsessed with making everything horrible that she even intentionally builds flaws into her plans just so that she might experience the despair of failure. When you think about it, she probably could have perfectly set things up with that attempted murder of Naegi so that it'd be impossible to show that it wasn't Mukuro. She deliberately didn't.

They wrote her a little too well, to the point where she killed herself, yeah it worked in the first game, but if they want her as an overarching antagonist then it wont work. Right now they're running on fumes. Look! This computer program is Junko! Look!! These kids met Junko once!!!

It's going to get to the point where junko is literally a spoopy ghost haunting a mansion filled with a heap of Junko impersonators in a killing game.

Junko Enoshima: An Ultimate Fashionista who is secretly the founder of ultimate despair? I accept her as a character who would kill but not the main antagonist. Like some people say I want her to stay as Monokuma because the second she transforms into Junko you defeat her within the last 20-25 minutes maybe less! When she's Monokuma people are not gonna fight against her as they might have seen what she's capable of and not wanted to fight her.

More to the fact she is sort of two-faced, different personalitys. One point she is angry as hell. The next point she's crying her head off. It suprises me how quickly her emotions change and I was very confused about this: How did Junko die then somehow 'Magically' resurrect? That was until I read the bio about Mukuno Ikabasu (I think that's how you spell it) and saw on the death section she got impaled by poles by Monokuma? And knowing now Junko controlled Monokuma? That's a sick thing...

But surely Mukuno saw that coming right? Because on a video I watched about how Junko tried to kill Mukuno in a Limo: The pointy ice thingy (I don't know the name of that .-.) and a bomb. Mukuno dodged that all super easy but couldn't she of moved out the way when the poles stabbed her? Or are you frozen to the spot? Knowing Mukuno as an Ultimate Soldier then that should've been easy right? Also: Why would Mukuno want to not do a Class Trial? What else could she have done? And why attack Monokuma when she surely saw what happened with Mondo by attacking the Headmaster? And how Monokuma 'Attemped' to kill him? It all confuses me.

And to conclude why in DR 2 did Junko want a "whole lotta me's" running around? I know she wanted the whole world to expierence despair (which is sick) can't you just keep people as they are and do another way? Because all that's gonna happen with a whole lotta Junkos running around is that people are gonna mistake each other is that what she wants? It's either to make friends lose friends, sisters lose sisters etc? Or did she not think it through?

Overall Junko is sort of sick to the head and probably doesn't know what she's doing at all! Sorry for the rant I just have a lot of questions. :)

What I don't understand is how she had so much power from the very beginning. She knew about the existence of the Izuru project before she was even introduced to us and it honestly felt a bit random.

Kodaka was reported to have said roughly "I didn't give Junko a backstory because I think that giving villains back stories is cheating." I can't take Junko seriously after that, she's just so goddamn boring. She did basically nothing. Sure, the reveal's cool but she has no reason to do what she does and that's dumb.

have you read zero and watched poor matsuda's soul get crushed? Can't find her boring after that.. lel

I've read most of it, and Ryouko is definitely more interesting than Junko. Junko just did that because "lolz despair"

how much is most?

Up to Chapter 2 of Book 2

ok... keep reading. Great Novel. I bingeread it and IF to turn a five hour line into something much more enjoyable.

I haven't read Zero, but I have watched the cliffnotes version

that was fucking hilarious. Especially if you read the book. "I CAN'T GET OFF!"

I saw that, too. I forget the source. It just makes me kinda sad. Sure, she doesn't have to have some great backstory, but no backstory leaves her bland.

"I didn't give Junko a backstory because I think that giving villains back stories is cheating."

Does this guy realize you can make good villains with backstories just as easily as good villains without them?

Well considering the SDR2 cast technically count as villains since they are/were part of SHSL Despair then yes he can.

Both of you seem to have misunderstood what Kodaka meant here. From Kodaka's perspective the most villainous type of characters are heartless monsters, with no morals or justification whatsoever in what they're doing and its simply for shits and giggles, Joker from Batman is a prime example. Junko is the most villainous character he can think of and giving such a character a traumatic backstory is cheap writing and would undermine the whole point of having such a character. Because they're not exactly very villainous as a character to begin with if they've been written for us to sympathize with them are they? Kodaka even said in the same interview that villain's are more terrifying if their background is unknown and have a crazy motive and Junko is meant to be the most villainous character he can think of.

Villains can be complex and have good backstories without being sympathetic

Junko ended up being an ultimately unbelievable character and poor villain to me

Sure, you can do that but it's much harder to pull off well, and I don't think Junko did it well.

As well as, in a game where backstories are a major component, it seems really counter intuitive to not give your villain a good reason to do what she does.

Honestly, I don't think "mastermind" is an accurate term for Junko. She arranged the whole killing game, but from what we've seen, she's not very smart.

She loves despair, and while that's fine, she seems to think everyone else will too. However, nobody else does. Not Makoto and friends, who unanimously choose hope. Not her cult, what we see of Mikan and Nagito suggests they follow her as a leader, not her philosophy. She thinks the world simply accepted unending chaos because of the power of despair, rather than the more likely possibility that people weren't happy with their lives and decided to jump on the Monokuma train and get away with looting and rioting.

It could be argued that she's just playing the part or messing with the students, but Junko doesn't seem to realize that Monokuma couldn't possibly be confused with a real bear. What's more, when she talks to Naegi late at night she seems confused at the implication that real bears are not actually plush toys. It's not Monokuma being led into the comment, Monokuma brings up the comment about there being no "mommy or daddy" bears himself, so I would assume Junko actually doesn't realize it, or is REALLY out of sorts because of her sleepless haze.

However, she does seem to have very good social skills. She flips between very shallow facades during the DR1 final trial, demonstrating a skill with faking her own emotions we haven't seen in anyone else, not Celestia who claims to be the Ultimate Liar, not Sakura whose willpower and restraint seems to be the stuff of legends, not even Twogami who IS the Ultimate Copycat. More telling, she got thousands of students to commit suicide simply on her word. Even if they did have shitty lives before she "took them in", she's clearly pretty convincing.

Of course, the possibility that she IS just lying is still there. Maybe her actual personality is the flat monotone we see in the later half of the DR1 trial, and everything else is just a facade. Maybe she DOESN'T like despair and is just faking it to make everyone hate her more, just like our dear friend Jataro. Maybe she sets her own failures up not so she can feel despair, but because she thinks her "plans" ARE terrible and wants them to fail to prove that selfishness and opportunistic betrayal doesn't rule the world. Maybe she actually respects Naegi for standing up to her and winning instead of flaking out and dying like so many before him, or worse, trying to win her favor like everyone does.

Nah, she's probably just crazy.

From what we've seen, she's not very smart.

Please tell me you're joking. Junko's actually superior to everyone by A LOT.

Please explain, I already have, and this IS a character discussion, not a "let's all agree on what this character is" thread...

Okay bear with me as this may be quite a long rant of mine. But first for those that don't understand Junko so well I suggest you start by watching This video Its a good analysis of her character and whilst you may not agree with this completely. It should give you more of an idea on her character and how she's not just "a psycho bitch that screams Despair all the time!". As for me personally I feel Junko/Monokuma is what made DR so distinct or unique as a series. Her antics of being terrifying one moment and then outright hilarious the next, I thoroughly enjoyed every moment of and she became one of my all-time favourite villains. Now I know that across the DR fandom, Junko has a mixed reception where fans either like or dislike her. One of the biggest reasons I've seen as to why people dislike her is because of her reason for doing all this ("Despair") being retarded/lame/boring. Now regarding this issue, it leads to the question: "Does a character need a traumatic background in order to become evil?" Or even any kind of deep reasoning for their actions, in other words a Well-intentioned extremist to be a successful/good villain? My answer to that is no you don't need to and you only to need to look at Joker from Batman as a prime example to know this. In fact I would argue that the most successful villains are ones that have no morality or horrible background and do deeds purely "for the evilz". Moving back to Junko, Kodaka actually stated in an interview that Junko is more terrifying and successful as a villain because her past is unknown and she has a crazy motive. So If I were to speculate from everything we DO know about her, For those who have read DR0 you would know that Junko's true talent isn't SHSL Gyaru or SHSL Despair, its SHSL Analyst, where she observes other people's talents and makes it her own, you only need to see AI Junko to know this is the case. This is the very reason why she is constantly in despair, because she is so vastly superior to everyone else as a human being she finds it all so very boring and tries all sorts of things to keep herself entertained. You can see this with her "multiple-personalities", she constantly changes personality to keep herself entertaining as you should all know, she values her identity as an entertainer a lot, this is all to prevent herself from getting bored. Of course Junko is no idiot and she knows there are times when she needs to go with the flow of society, which she did for the sake of her Tragedy plan. Which leads to the whole irony of what Hope's Peak did. The very talent they were looking for was right under their nose and instead they create Izuru Kamakura. Izuru being the "artificial" whereas Junko was the "natural". That very talent also being the one that brought Hope's Peak's downfall as well. Another thing people overlook about Junko was her plan in the second game "Junkofication of Mankind plan." It may seem far-fetched at first but if you look more into Junko's character it fits her perfectly. As I said earlier, Junko is a superior being to everyone else to the point she finds them all too simple and predictable and by turning everyone into "her", that issue wouldn't exist anymore. With Junko's superior intellect, the Junkofied people would become unpredictable and entertaining, creating an ideal world for Junko that ties in with her characterization. "But how is Junko superior to everyone when she was defeated by Naegi in DR1?" Well as even Naegi himself hinted in DR:AE, because Junko is so superior, she intentionally creates flaws in her plans to give people the chance to exploit them, which not only gives her a chance to be put into despair, it also keeps things entertaining. She would find it incredibly boring if everything went accordingly. Its actually a shame that this character discussion comes just a few weeks before the anime because I believe the "Despair" anime will shed a new light on Junko's character and show us all just how cunning, manipulative and beautiful she is as she brings the SDR2 cast to her side. As most of the time we've only seen her in Class trials. And that's the end of my rant, if you are still reading then I would like to thank you for spending your time reading my post whether you agree or disagreed with it.

Basically what/u/Endless_Despair
 wrote, sums it up pretty good IMO

The video certainly put it better than Endless_Despair in my opinion, but I'm still not sold on it (even if I do have to grudgingly put sandcastles onto my "things Junko can do" list). I find it more likely that she got others to do things for her than that she made the AI and such herself (she did have many ultimates under her thumb, more than just the Remnants of despair that we see). While I do think she has a lot of self loathing, I hadn't considered the superiority complex angle.

I will say though, just because Junko thinks she's superior doesn't mean she is. She certainly tried to turn everyone into her because she THINKS she's better than everyone else, but if she hates herself as much as she seems to, that plan is short-sighted at best.

[S]It's unfortunately a reddit wide problem, everyone just uses the downvote button as a disagree button. This isn't the first time this has happened, heck Luke's comment was in the negatives when I first saw it.

Sort of demoralizing to see, maybe I'll put a reminder with the next discussion but if people are already downvoting others it probably wouldn't change anything. Just sucks cause I feel it stiffens the discussion and is the community saying "if you don't agree then don't talk".

It's not just on comments either, I've noticed several threads around here get dropped to

The only Junko i would love to see in Dangan 3 would be robot Junko with Junko AI in her and the cyber skin so she owuld look like human.

BUT!!

She would actually participate in a Killing Game along with 14 other students and had no power while another student who participate would be Makoto who recognise her and warn the others about her possible intent. From there player would be always on its toes when it comes to the suspect.

Character Discussion #29 - Kyoko Kirigiri (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Detective

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc, Goodbye Despair

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Has amnesia induced by Junko Enoshima

Goes missing often, leading to suspicion from the other students such as Byakuya Togami

Is angered with Makoto Naegi after she shares information with him but he doesn't reciprocate

In Chapter 5 is set up by Monokuma to be a killer, but Makoto ends up being found guilty

Finds remains of father in Office

Escapes the school along with the other survivors

Appears in the final trial in DR2 to help with the shutdown sequence

Appears with the other Branch Leaders of Future Foundation to decide on Makoto's ruling for protecting Ultimate Despair

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Detective, Kyoko Kirigiri!

Kyoko is a well-written, interesting character, one of the more developed characters in the first game, serves as a investigatory foil to Byakuya throughout the game, and eventually is more of a deuteragonist alongside Makoto rather than a simple love interest, which I definitely can appreciate. In retrospect, some of the game can be seen as Kyoko's story, just being viewed through Makoto's POV. Although, her deuteragonist status is deliberately not made fully clear Chapter 5. Beforehand, she is the classic mysterious, 'seems to knows more than everyone else', but ultimately red herring character. Both archetypes were well-used with her character IMO.

Kyoko's major character theme is trust. That's central to her entire character. She begins the game not trusting anyone, under the idea that any one of them could be the mastermind behind the mutual killing game she's been trapped in. Having amnesia over her talent and entire background would also contribute to the feeling of forced solitude and self-perseverance she has. Her introduction immediately draws your attention to her mystery. Regardless of the self-perseverance, after Sayaka is killed, easily determining that Leon was her killer way before the trial and knowing that Makoto is innocent and seeing potential in him as a person who can keep the group's morale together, Kyoko decides to help him seek the truth out behind Sayaka's murder attempt to help him get out of the horrible, self-defeating rut it put him in. Right away, this is the first hint that Kyoko is a character who should be trusted, who can understand Makoto and work together with him to help solve the mysteries of the game.

However, throughout Chapters 2-5, she repeatedly does things that go against that first hint, planting ideas in your head that maybe she isn't all that she seems. Constantly wandering off from others, disappearing entirely from time to time, refusing to tell Makoto anything about her plans and ideas even when she demands that he tell her everything he knows without hesitation, becoming furious with him after he refuses to tell her something he knows. Other characters begin suspecting her as a traitor within the group, and Makoto isn't sure how to reconcile his initial impressions of Kyoko after she helped him in Chapter 1, with her later actions. This is a central part of DR1, trust and distrust, and Kyoko is the character who this theme is most expressed through.

This comes to a head in Chapter 5, where her solitary attitude towards investigating the school's mysteries and the other students directly leads to the mastermind attempting to frame her for murder to get her out of the way. Except for Makoto, everyone was willing to accept that only Kyoko was capable of committing the "murder", and were ready to vote her guilty. Even as Makoto fights her corner, and argues that Kyoko would never have killed someone, and that something is off about the entire fifth trial, Kyoko, in the climax of a paranoid and lonely attitude she has held during the entire game, decides to throw Makoto under the bus, and doesn't say anything when the group decides that he looks incredibly suspicious. Then he gets sent to be executed. This is the trigger that finally snaps Kyoko out of her paranoia towards others, and after his execution fails, she immediately sets out to rescue him from the basement, apologizes and tells him everything she knows and everything about herself. She finally trusts him, and the player can finally trust her entirely.Only now that they are both agreeing to work together, can they band the others against the mastermind and escape the school safely.

Her role in the story as a vehicle to express the trust/distrust theme is very clear-cut, and there's a clear development arc in motion here. On this note, I like how they tie in this theme with the gameplay mechanics, where the only time you shoot down a statement made by Kirigiri is either: in Chapter 5, which immediately leads to a bad ending (Distrust), and at the end of Chapter 6's final Non-Stop Debate (Trust). It represents this theme with her character beautifully.

The reveals that she is the Ultimate Detective (her character design should immediately tip you off on this front - a sign of a good design) and that her father is the headmaster feel like almost afterthoughts. As soon as you find out, you're like "Oh, of course you're a detective. Of course the headmaster is your father, you've only been fixated on him strangely throughout the game or something". They weren't really meant to be plot twists I feel. Just to help expand on her character really. Of course a detective would sometimes find it difficult to trust others entirely. Of course sometimes a detective would not want to publically tell everyone their secrets and give away their hand. Of course a detective would be able to have investigated as well as Kyoko does in both the murders and overarching mystery. It all clicks into place.

Her character aside from that, is pretty decent stuff as well. She clearly has abandonment issues as a response to her dad leaving the family legacy and his daughter in one fell sweep. This helps to explain her untrusting and lonely view on life when she starts the game. She believes that the only person you can trust fully is yourself, and that family relations aren't as important and binding. Both these viewpoints change during the course of the game.

Not entirely, of course, Kyoko will still be a bit of a loner at heart, and doesn't fully endorse/forgive her father's reasons for leaving her despite still loving her. But she still understands why he was the way he was, and that family doesn't necessarily mean blood-related or that you understand and agree with them entirely. The blood-related part almost seems to imply that, at the end of the game, it seems like that she's forged an almost familial bond with Makoto and the other survivors, despite their many differences, they've worked together to basically stick their finger up at Junko's game, and pledge to keep hope alive within them all despite all odds in the ruined world. It's definitely a positive ending for Kyoko's character arc, without completely rewriting her character as well.

Not only that, the common fandom interpretation of seeing Kyoko as the boring, emotionless Mary Sue rings false to me. She's clearly not perfect, and definitely not emotionless. Her petty outburst at Makoto in Chapter 4 and the aftermath of Chapter 5's trial should be enough proof to the contrary. She makes mistakes, she sometimes gets angry and upset with others, she nearly fell into despair after Junko put a bullet in her worldview of "Knowing the truth will always be a good thing, and leads to hope". She even states in her free time scenes that Makoto is wrong to label her as 100% calm, collected, almost uncaring, and explains why. Kyoko Kirigiri is a flawed, sympathetic person deep down just like (almost) every other character in the game. One of my top characters from the series. I really hope she doesn't get killed off in DR3. Or at least if she does, not in a meaningless, shocking plot twist!! way. She deserves better. Don't be like GoT Danganronpa series.

Yes, I'm sorry, but every post I'll make in a character discussion thread is going to be wall-of-text. I really enjoy writing these things, haha. Definitely going to try to post in every weekly thread! And very sad I missed the first #27 for sure now.

I agree that Kyoko serves mainly to test the player's trust. She does some serious shady shit and disappears all the time, has knowledge of things the average teen doesn't and the buildup is eerily similar to sayaka's (albeit longer). The whole time you are wondering whether she can be trusted or not and the game ultimately pushes your trust into a critical test: Do you trust her enough to sacrifice yourself or do you call her out on her lie?

It's really good in the way that you are tested. Are you willing to trust anyone again after being betrayed in the first chapter?

Yeah, she and Sayaka are deliberately written in a way that you're supposed to draw parallels between them on the theme of trust/distrust. They even have similar designs, mostly with their hair, again as a way to re-enforce that they'll ultimately be the two characters closest to Makoto. Kyoko is introduced as the most mysterious/distant character towards Makoto, whereas Sayaka is the childhood love interest who is the character closest to him at the start. Both break the genre expectations of who you should trust and not trust with Kyoko helping Makoto see the truth behind Sayaka's death, who ended up betraying his trust in an attempt to escape.

But then both are ultimately redeemed by the game anyways, Kyoko after her betrayals leading up to the events of Chapter 5's trial, and Sayaka at the end of Chapter 1, where it is accepted that the point of her dying message was an attempt to save Makoto after regretting her betrayal. The two of them really do express this major theme of DR1 incredibly well, imo.

I don't believe that Sayaka tried to warn Makoto. She simply tried to name her killer so the rest woudn't get to be sacrificed when he run away with it using her own plan against others. She still planned to frame Makoto knowing that he would die if her plan was succesfull. That last suggestion in chapter 1 that whitewash Sayaka was simply made there for Sayaka fans, but it's cimplete bullshit.

Sayaka didn't know about the class trial system though, since Monokuma only properly explained the graduation rule after she was murdered. All Sayaka knew was that whoever killed another student without being caught would be able to leave the school, and probably assumed the others would remain locked in the school alive. So she can't have left the message with her intent being to save the other students from execution. And she couldn't have made the plan with the idea that Makoto would've died as a result either, she just didn't know that was what would happen if she had been successful.

I mean, in the end, it is entirely ambiguous why Sayaka left the message, either as revenge against her killer or out of regret for her actions towards Makoto. But the fact that the game goes to such lengths (through Kyoko) at the end of Chapter 1 to address the reasoning behind the latter motive to leave the message seems to imply that's what the game wants you to take away from the whole thing. Sayaka intended to kill and frame you for her crime, but fucked up and regretted her actions at the end of it. She's no innocent but she's not 100% evil either.

The blackened rule was available from the start, and Byakuya asked Monokuma about it before Sayaka killed anyone. You can't defend her unless you think that Sayaka is more retarded than Yasuhiro.

Um, okay, I went back and watched parts of the prologue/Chapter 1 to see if I was wrong. I wasn't, Monokuma didn't explain the class trial rules until after the first murder. Hence the whole point behind 'Junko' attacking Monokuma over the fact that he left out information about the graduation system to make someone more likely to kill. That definitely happened.

Byakuya asking for clarification was in the Prologue, wanting to know what Monokuma meant by "only someone who disturbs the harmony may leave this school", which refers to murdering another student. Monokuma still did not explain anything about having to hide the crime from everyone else and the whole class trial system at this point. The rule about having to hide the crime is in the e-Handbooks, but still nothing about class trials or everyone else dying if the culprit successfully hides their guilt. Those rules only get added after Sayaka's death.

If she didn't knew that she ALSO need to fool the rest of them, she would simply kill the guy and waited until Monokuma free her. If she wanted to blame Makoto, she would AT LEAST suspect that Makoto is going to get punished even if she thought thta the rest of the class would survive. Either way, finding any form of "protecting Makoto" in her actions is farfetched however you look at it. She would have protect him if she didn't try to frame him or kill him.

No, she did know that she had to hide her guilt from everyone. I feel like you've misread my responses entirely? I'm saying that when she made her plan, she knew that she had to hide her involvement to the whole class due to the rules in the e-Handbook, that's literally what they say, but that's all she knew about the graduation system. This was her plan and thought process: lure Leon to Makoto's room, kill him, leave the body there, remove any evidence of her involvement, feign shock and ignorance as everyone discovers body, everyone blames Makoto due to the body in her room, Monokuma tells them they are wrong, Sayaka gets to leave, everyone else is left behind.

None of that is "protecting Makoto", sure, but I didn't say it WAS, at any point. All I said that leaving her dying message was an attempt to save him by making it clear who her killer was, so people wouldn't blame him for her death. I actually think we just have different interpretations of her character, so I'm going to leave it here, and agree to disagree.

Very nice write up. You should share your thoughts now that DR 3 has wrapped up.

Something which always nagged me was the logic of Kyoko shifting the blame on Makoto. She knew he didn't do it, and knew an incorrect popular vote would result in everyone's death (minus the actual blackened). So by then, I'm guessing she realized someone with significant power was trying to frame her and reasoned that actual guilt no longer played a role in who would die. As opposed to calling it out, she went along with it and found a scapegoat. Goes back to the theme of trust that you pointed out.

Kirigiri's one of my favourite characters in the franchise. I adore her single colour design, her sharpness and everything else about her.

A lot of people like to say she's a boring emotionless Mary Sue, but I don't think that does her character justice. She gets into a petty spat over everything Naegi does after she feels hurt that Naegi is keeping secrets from her, and she messes and trolls Naegi in her FTE's. It's as she says, she's just good at keeping her emotions hidden, while Naegi's an open book.

Her actions and plans also ended up with her throwing Naegi under the bus in Ch 5. Naegi being saved and everything ending up alright is not because of Kirigiri's actions, but the Deus Ex Machina that is Alter Ego apparently not having been destroyed.

She's the cold logical type to contrast Naegi's open all trusting personality, but nicer and more emotionally intelligent than Togami.

Oh man, Kyoko time. Long post ahead, there is a short version in the reply.

She is undeniable my favorite character in the entire danganronpa universe. I thought for the first half of the game she was "the ultimate waifu".I love everything about her, from her collected and calm demeanor to her gorgeous
lavender hair. She oozes intelligence and is one the smartest most influential students at hope's peak academy.

People tend to say that she is a boring emotionless character, and they are not necessarily wrong. With the amount of screen time she gets and how much she controls the story, she has a lot of (relatively) boring story moments which tends to overshadow the main characters role in the story.

However, I find Kyoko to be one the more complex, unique, and interesting characters, and she is put at at the top of my favorite character list for more reasons besides being the ultimate waifu.

There are a lot of things I can talk about, but I want to mainly talk about her development as the game progressed, specifically how her relationship with Makoto helps reshape her and influences her actions. I find that (as Makoto) you influence her more then any other character as well as establish partnership so strong that it ultimately defeats the mastermind; which is the reason I like this character so much.

I think one of the easier ways to understand this character is by placing yourself in her boots.

Kyoko entered the killing game forgetting most of herself.
She does remember a couple important things that preface her arrival at hopes peak.

Her father abandoned her and the family name

She lost something and it frightens her

Also, the "fear" [I] experience is a little different from yours, I imagine. You're afraid of what you might lose, right? But I'm afraid of what I've already lost. -Kyoko

She has had her hands burned because of a human connection

Simply put, there was a time when I grew attached to someone, and I made a bad decision. I was forced to learn a very powerful lesson, and these gloves are a daily reminder of that. So on these gloves, I swore to never make the same mistake again. -Kyoko

I will argue that what she lost was her ability to form a deep connection with another human. The type of connection that people have between family and loved ones. A type of connection associated with trust and love.

... Anyway, don't get too depressed over all this. The reason I'm not willing to talk about it isn't because I don't trust you. In fact, I do have faith in you. Which is why I decided to tell you what I have. I want you to understand why I can't tell you. I can't show you myself, just like I can't show you what's beneath these gloves. I can't imagine a point where I would show them ever again. Only someone I could call family would be worthy. (Jokingly) Would you like to sign up?

We can only speculate on how her hand got burned and how she lost this ability. Maybe it has something to do about her dad/ some work related thing. Regardless, something happened burned her hand and destroyed her ability to form this connection, and I believe it has something to do with someone abandoning her during a time of need.

This is very terrifying. The inability to form this bond scares her, and it should. She essentially lost one of the core things that makes us human, being able to form meaningful relationships with someone is something everybody desires and is one of the things that defines humanity.

Kyoko is very logical and she understands emotions very well. As the ultimate detective, she understands the importantance of evidence and how emotions can cause humans to do erratic things. This experience shapes her mindset -- She makes very calculated decisions that minimize the amount of variability (aka human emotions) that takes place. If she can reduce the amount of emotion involved, it will help her make better more informed decisions.

All of these factor into her actions and words. She has issues developing meaningful relationships because there is no reason too. She hides her feelings because she can't show them, not necessarily because she doesn't want too.
There is no reason too as she gains nothing from it. She understands this from first hand experience, and results in her very emotionless personality.

She entered the killing game with inability to develop these relationships. And that actually is a good thing... putting faith in people during this game has demonstrated time and time again that it gets you killed.
She is determined to solve her own mysteries and she will do it herself lonewolf style. This mindset is what causes her to be so reclusive and secretive, and wander off on her own. She is the perfect candidate to survive and win the killing game.

...And then there is Makoto Naegi. This goofy looking "open book" changes her in ways that she could never imagine. He is essentially the opposite of her. He has no secrets, no doubt, and is willing to form deep connections for the greater good of the group. Something about him catches her attention. Whether it be love or some other factor, Makoto slowly changed the way she thought about this stuff.

Her relationship and interactions with him changes as the game progresses.
As you progress through her FTE and towards the end of the game you slowly but surely restore what is lost to her. She smiles more, she laughs more, she shows fear,
she is more willing to discuss herself and her discoveries. She starts developing a connection, something that she has longed so much for.

Whenever Makoto gets her to laugh or even blush, he is restoring a part of her humanity. I find this beautiful.

I know I always tell you to be careful and protect yourself, but... to be honest, hope you don't change. I prefer you this way. This is... you. -Kyoko

There is a couple key moments between these two that I want to highlight that support the argument I am making.

Ch1 : Makoto's good friend was murdered. She noticed this and chose to comfort him. I can't exactly guess why she did this because it. ...but maybe she could have related to the pain that he experienced when someone close to him abandoned him.

End of Ch3: Makoto talks to Kyoko and questions her on her disappearance, he is worried about her. This is a very powerful moment between her, Makoto demonstrates a non-conditional trust in her, something that shocks her.

Kyoko: ...it's only natural that they think I'm the mastermind's spy, right? And you too.

Makoto: No! I...I believe in you

Kyoko (shocked): You believe... in me?

Makoto:"Isn't it obvious?? People believe in their friends right? That's is why I want you to tell me! And I want you... to believe in me, too.

Ch4: Lying to her about Sakura's betrayel. Makoto really didn't do anything wrong. Kyoko just started forming a bond..and Makoto hides a secret from her. This hurts her... A lot... In her eyes, Makoto just burned her hands. She gives Makoto the silent treatment, but eventually realizes she over reacted and forgives him.

Ch5: Here is a VERY pivotal moment of there relationship. During the start of the trial she was willing to cooperate with Makoto...hence telling him about the key. However, it became very clear that this trial was indeed a trap. The blackened could have only been Makoto or herself, and she knew it. So, she was forced to abandon Makoto in order to fight for her own life. At this point, Makoto became an enemy. She HAD to dissolve the trust she built between him in order to save herself. And really...this is a very human thing to do. Of course you want to fight to survive...and she knew that Makoto would fight back. Almost anybody would have had to do the same thing in her scenario....everybody except Makoto of course. She had no knowledge of the case, and was forced to lie about not having a way into her room. Then, in the moment of truth, Makoto does something that shocks even the mastermind which was remain silent and continue to trust in Kyoko, and not dissolve the bond that they developed together. And what did Kyoko do? Nothing... Makoto refused to doubt her and continued to believe in her, he didn't abandon her, something she has never experienced before and he would have paid for it with his life if it were not for Altar Ego.

"I don't expect you to forgive me. I know this is all my fault... -Kyoko"

Ch6: She realized that she abandoned and ruined the trust of her friend the same way that hurt her. Makoto dooesn't look much into it because he didn't see it that way. In her eyes she just burned Makoto's hand forever, and hurt someone in the same way she was hurt.

Kyoko: "During the trial, even though you knew I was lying you didn't say anything. But even though I knew[that you knew], I did nothing to help you. I...abandoned you.
Makoto: You didn't abandon me! Kyoko: That is exactly what I did. I abandoned you in order to save my own life.You were trying to save me, and I couldn't bring myself to do the same for you."

Ch6 Investigation: She discovers the password to her father's secret room is her name, the photo of herself smiling as a kid, and the corpse of her father. It turns out, everything she though about abandonment and human connection...was wrong. Her father never stopped caring about. She then asked Makoto to leave the room and proceeded to cry (If you think she didn't cry her, you are not human). Everything she thought about abandonment was wrong.

Short version: Not only do I love her cute smile, sexy body, and her intelligence. I like her role in the story also like how her relationship with Makoto develops.

She was afraid of things she lost, which turns out to be her humanity. Her inability to form meaningful connections with people terrifies her and leads to her reclusive personality.

Through Makoto, she was able to form a meaningful relationship with somebody restoring a part of her that has been lost.

Everybody loses something in the game, whether it be their friends, their sanity, or even their life.
She is one of the few characters in the series that actually gains something throughout the killing game.

The summary of Kyoko and Makoto's relationship in one quote, not necessarily canon but summarizes my entire point.

"Kyoko: If you want to win my trust, you'll need to be at my side always. And I feel like... if I have you with me, I'll be able to find what I'm looking for"

This is very well written. You should do a summary for her now that DR 3 is finished. I'm curious to see others view on it.

Kyoko's an interesting character.

She has a talent that should make her the most powerful person in the trials, finding evidence the other students just aren't crafty enough to hide. She wears gloves and knows exactly what investigators would look for, so she could also be a very formidable murderer.

However, she doesn't trust anyone, and everyone pays her back with similar distrust. She only shows a very small amount of evidence and leaves Makoto to pick up the rest. She could never get away with murder because she's always on the suspect list, with Byakuya pointing the finger at her every trial. Makoto is the only one who can get her to open up to him, but one incident of keeping secrets sends her back into her shell.

Her father being the headmaster, and dead, seem to push that further. From the photos, it appears that hanging out with friendly faces and being able to spend time with her father allowed her to get over her distrust.

But after the mind wipe, whether it set her back to when she arrived at Hope's peak or before she received her acceptance letter, sent her back into her paranoia. No friends, no trust, no acceptance, and no resolution with the earliest person to make her want to keep secrets in the first place. What a poor, unfortunate soul.

And yet in DR2, she's one of the two people loyal enough to Makoto to follow him into what will likely be exile simply because he says it should be done. Alongside Byakuya Togami, the classmate who trusted her the least out of everyone, no less. Indeed, she's clearly overcome her inherent distrust of others, at least when it comes to the boy she crowned the Ultimate Hope. Let us hope that holds true for the new anime as well.

Also, she wears a lot of purple.

Kyoko is another "eh" character for me. I realize this is probably gonna go into Hajime territory, and that's even more fitting considering I feel the same way about her (maybe a bit more considering how much the writing style of Hajime's character mirrors a blend of hers, Makoto's, and Ishimaru's), but onward we go.

No matter what your opinion of Kyoko is, her role in the story is clear—they want you to have a distant, sketchy, and uncertain type of bond with her in order to fit the theme of distrust. She seems nice, but she's also hiding a lot from you. The game makes sure to leave a degree of uncertainty in your interactions with Kyoko that stays pretty consistent and boils over in the fifth chapter. Ultimately, she doesn't turn out to be the traitor, the mastermind, or anything. Kyoko might not be my favorite character, but trial 5 certainly was probably my favorite DR 1 trial (it's a close one between 4 and 5). You don't get the luxury of evidence to prove or disprove people this time. It's not "did Kyoko did it" this time—with the evidence you've uncovered, it's quite possible she could have—instead, you're forced into the dilemma of "do you trust Kyoko" instead.

My deal with Kyoko isn't so much about her character in itself, but more how the game goes about discrediting her trust. Obviously, if you want a game about distrust, then you can't make Kyoko entirely sympathetic or trustworthy, otherwise the entire balance is lost. But I feel the game sort of detracts from Kyoko a lot with some of the ways they go about presenting her.

I usually make the joke that she's the ultimate "first thing you'd guess" since just from her appearance in the prologue, my first guess for her talent was the ultimate detective or maybe a coroner at the very least. I guess part of it is that it can really only go in one of a few directions, and because you're reading a story, it'd be too obvious for them to make her the mastermind, but that in itself breaks the balance because I kind of saw exactly where her arc was going to go.

There's also the fact that…Kyoko has some really weird moments in the class trials in how they present her. My least favorite moment is still her slip of the tongue gambit in chapter 2. It doesn't make full sense for her to call out Mondo on his slip of the tongue if it was established that she shouldn't have knowledge of it either. It makes a lot more sense for Celeste to pull this and catch Mondo, especially since she's the liar queen. The information was limited to just Celeste and Makoto, and while Mondo saying any color is off, it's still a bit of stretch for Kyoko to pull the entire gambit, especially since she immediately abandons it. I get that they're trying to show that she tries to get truth out however, but it just comes off a bit more gimmicky to me than anything.

There's another instance in the sixth trial where she throws out a point about Mukuro's tattoo, but then later bringing up a point about foundation saying she noticed the contradiction the moment she said it, but just hoped nobody would point it out. I think the taking blind gambles approach combined with some of her previous actions (sending Makoto into something she found knowing it was most likely a trap and using Makoto, followed by immediately getting annoyed by him for withholding information) kind of really hurts the balancing act. Ideally, Kyoko would be someone you have as much reason to trust as you do distrust, but I personally found her just as "I'd never bother with you in any situation, but I know the direction the game is going in, so I have no choice but to play along."

If there was more complexity and payoff to her actions, I think it'd be a good balance for Kyoko. Think to a similar situation to the first case of Apollo Justice with Hobo Phoenix. The defendant tampers with the crime scene, but does so in order to force a contradiction onto the culprit and catch them. Said person also resorts to forged evidence. I think Kyoko playing a bit dirtier in how she goes about attaining the truth would be a good balance for her, perhaps in say trial 3. The tension comes strongest when the game makes her equally trustworthy and unreliable, but instead there are just portions where she completely throws you under the bus and then helps out a lot in the trials, so it just feels more flip floppish and inconsistent than a constant tension. She gets mad at Makoto for withholding information, right after sending him off into a trap to serve her own needs, so it just comes off as a bit anticlimactic for me when you have to stick up for her. I understand she's clearly regretful of her actions, but because they go so back and forth with Kyoko rather than a constant, balanced tension, her reaction feels a bit forced, especially since I knew where she was going.

Chapter 6 Kyoko is pretty cool though. I especially like her comment about family being more than just blood relationships, so it's clear that trust is something she's wrestled with arguably her whole life. She's the perfect setup, but I think how she played out could have been a bit stronger.

On a completely unrelated note, my friend makes a joke that she has a foot fetish because of a throwaway comment she makes in chapter 3. When she's investigating, she checks Hifumi's underwear for evidence, she comments saying like "it's not like it's his socks or anything." Good times. I can understand why people like Kyoko, and I especially love the fifth trial where she's one of the most focal characters and forced to go against Makoto, though I feel the trust/distrust angle could have been done a bit better. It felt more like "there's no reason to trust this person other than the game telling me to do so."

... jealous of how much TK is good discussing about characters

Send a note to TsundereKermit

"Dear TsundereKermit, i kinda need your help to investigate a certain dark room that is far from everyone and impossible for someone to hear any scream of pain and agony for being murdered. Don't worry, you can trust me, it's safe. I would NEVER try do something suspicious. Hurry up. Meet me at 13:00pm, i will be waiting with a sword just for defend myself so don't find stranger okay? See ya later :3"

-XxGoldMadnessxX-

I see no problems with this. I better go follow the exact details of this letter.

[S]Just a reminder that yes, downvotes are meant for off-topic discussion, not discussion you don't agree with. Don't downvote a comment just because you don't agree with what is said, it's no fun being in an echo chamber. Also yes, I realize no one actually follows this rule, but we can try!

Otherwise let's all pray for Kyoko since everyone and their mother thinks she's a goner in the upcoming anime.

downvotes are meant for off-topic discussion, not discussion you don't agree with. Don't downvote a comment just because you don't agree with what is said

Hajime Hinata? Who's that?

[S]Mrw I see everyone downvoting a negative Hajime comment
Also realized this is fitting since it's Kyoko's discussion

The real twist is that Kyoko is real and is the one downvoting everything.

Otherwise let's all pray for Kyoko since everyone and their mother thinks she's a goner in the upcoming anime.

And this is where the mind games begin. If everyone thinks that Kyoko is a goner and therefore the expectation shifts to her being a victim, then that means the twist is way too predictable, which leads me to believe there's a chance that it won't happen (Or at the very least, the method of death won't be).

I'm thinking and hoping that she doesn't die simply for them to mess with us. I just want them to set off death flags left and right, but never actually kill her because they know how stressful it'll be for her fans.

The anime isn't even out yet and I'm stressed out Kirigiri's gonna die :(

Everything she does is gonna look like a death flag in my eyes...

I mean, if they were to kill her (and if the anime follows the procedure of every other Danganronpa main game so far) it would probably be in the 1st case or the 5th case. If they're going to do it, they'll probably just do it right off the bat to put in some type of twist or they'll just have that sense of despair lurking over your until the 5th chapter hits when they decide to pull it out.

I like Kyoko, but she's just as much of a 50/50 to survive as any of the other characters in the anime (except for Makoto who'll more than likely 100% survive 'cuz of that whole "Ultimate Hope" deal).

The fact that she might be Makoto's love interest, pretty much set her up as a on of the victims so that Maktoto would feel despair. Monokuma would probably do everything to kill her in front of his eyes.

I think Hiro, Hina, Kyoko and Byakuya will die in the first trials as victims. There is no reason to bring them back other than having the main characters feel despair in seeing his friends getting killed.

I'm pretty sure there's no trials in the Future Arc anime. The killing game is different, since there's only one killer and they're trying to find out who it is. Basically it's like a game of Mafia, and the first two games were more like a hybrid between Clue and Ace Attorney.

Edit: Also, Byakuya is not in the killing game this time. It's just Hina, Hiro, Kyoko and Makoto.

In addition, strong disagreement should be marked with a reply explaining your reasoning, screaming at the wall and watching a number to see how it's received doesn't make for very interesting discussion.

everyone and their mother thinks she's a goner in the upcoming anime It's always the people you least suspect who live! Has DR taught you anything?!

Fuck that, if my waifu dies, I'm going with her.

You seem sort of... DESPAIRED.

Yes, I definitely am, this issue has been pressing against my mind for the last week and I seriously don't want her to die.

Tip of the Day: Never get attached to a Danganronpa waifu.

Chiaki and Sayaka are proof of that.

Amen to that one.

Comic reliefs always live. Hiro, Kuzuichi and probably the chill guy in a hat in DR3 will survive.

I'm expecting Aoi, Kyoko and (obviously) some new people to die.

She was basically an anime Dana Scully. I was glad, that in the end she turned out to be a main love interest rather than Sayaka as she was the most helpful and supporting character in the game.

I'm wondering which way they'll take Kyoko's character in DR3. I get the feeling that we'll end up learning about the incident where her hands got burned, since they never elaborated on that in the first game. (I don't think the Kirigiri novels have covered this incident, either)

Also hoping that she doesn't get killed off as the first surprise victim. Though it would make sense as a surprise victim since we wouldn't "expect" them to aim for the DR1 survivors early, and it would remove her detective skills from the equation so Makoto doesn't figure out the mastermind too soon. Plus, she and Makoto wouldn't have the mistrust between them they did in DR1, so they'd be able to cooperate more easily.

Though it would be an evil idea if Kyoko ended up getting amnesia again, resetting her to the distrustful self she was in DR1. Since Makoto is suspected of treason, it might be harder for him to get her to trust him again until she gets her memory back. Plus, it seems more despair-inducing for the mastermind to try to turn Kyoko against Makoto.

I didn't find that interesting a character personally, but I thought she wasn't bad also. Having her father be the headmaster created some good scenes for her.

Interesting character, but the decision to make a literal Ultimate Detective one of the main characters in a detective game wasn't that well thought out.

Honestly, the game would have been a lot better if she was THE main character.

I mean she basically is, its her story and Naegi was just there for the ride

All Kirigiri did for me was introduce me to Danganronpa.

I'm not particularly fond of her, and I have a feeling she'll get axed in the DR3 Future Arc.

Don't just say that... She won't die without a fight, she's too important to the Danganronpa universe. She has her own series of novels, and she appears rather prominently in many other Danganronpa spinoffs (although strangely not UDG). Her skill as an Ultimate Detective will be an important factor in the more mystery driven Danganronpa 3.

She has her own series of novels, and she appears rather prominently in many other Danganronpa spinoffs (although strangely not UDG)

Then I suppose we've gotten everything we need from her -Spike Chunsoft, probably :P

No, she hasn't kissed Makoto yet THEY NEED TO GET INTO A ROMANTIC RELATIONSHIP

It would be so romantic and tragic if before kirigiri dies, makoto gives her a kiss and then she close her eyes and says "You are my shinning hope...Naegi-kun..." and then she dies with a tear leaving from her eye.

It would be super cute, but my poor little heart wouldn't be able to take it.

I would rather have Makoto die, because (in my headcanon, at least) the relationship is more significant to the development of Kirigiri as a character. Of course the ideal outcome would to have neither one die, and then have an actual happy ending. I mean, holy shit, can you imagine, Danganronpa having a happy ending.

I have a feeling that if Kirigiri and Murasame dies, Makoto will be with either Miaya, Chisa or Asahina.

Eh, i dont know, having read killer killer i think makoto is gonna be the one to die, leaving kirigiri alive, its not that i want to see any of them dead but knowing the series, one of them is gonna die, and unless theyre just pulling a big ruse here, its probably gonna be naegi

Unless they kill both, which actually... if they die together... i think it might be less despair-inducing

so kirigiri and naegi end up in the end in dangaronpa 3 future arc they married and have a child...

In the last episode she dies but i don't think that is true because 1) They did zoom to her hand when she died possibly indicating that it was supposed to move but they left it for the other episoede. 2) The opening is called DEAD OR LIE so maybe she just faked her death like gekogahara did with Asahina so i do not think she is dead also i just noticed that this is for trigger happy havoc and im talking about the anime oh well fuck it

Character Discussion #30 - Chihiro Fujisaki (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Programmer

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Doesn't defend self against Byakuya Togami in Chapter 2, leading to an epiphany and desire to grow stronger combined with the Chapter 2 motive

Murdered by Mondo Owada in a fit of rage

Leaves behind his program, Alter Ego, found in Chapter 3, which takes his likeness

Alter Ego is supposedly executed at the end of Chapter 4, but comes back at the end of Chapter 5 and Danganronpa 2

Created Chiaki Nanami

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Programmer, Chihiro Fujisaki!

Poor guy.

He had a great talent, and despite initially having a severe inferiority complex, he eventually mustered up the courage to finally confront his weakness and actively work to change into a stronger person. Unfortunately, this courage is what lead to his downfall at the hands of Mondo, who became jealous over Chihiro's ability to do what he couldn't and admit his embarrassing secret.

Aside from all that, Chihiro is one of the few characters in the entire series who is able to fully put their talent on display, and also be relevant to the overall plot even after his death. His creation of Alter Ego from what was merely a broken laptop found the Library of Hope's Peak Academy is the perfect demonstration of why he is known as the Ultimate Programmer, and it was an essential component which allows Makoto and the rest of the survivors to discover the mystery surrounding the Killing Game and bring down the mastermind.

I also hate to say it, but not only was Chihiro a victim of his own desire to change into a better person, but he is also the root of what I like to call 'Chihiro's Curse'. So far, it seems as though everyone and everything that is related to or created by Chihiro is destined to meet an unfortunate end. I'm of course talking about both of his creations: Alter Ego and Chiaki Nanami, both of which get executed at pretty emotional times in their respective games. Let's hope this doesn't translate to Ryota Mitarai, even though he isn't explicitly related to Chihiro, he does seem to have similar characteristics to him (Disclaimer: Pure Speculation of what little we know about the Future Arc).

His father also fell victim to Chihiro's curse.

Chihiro was one of those that'd seem to go out quickly, sadly. He's one of the biggest stencils for my favorite DR 2 characters, Mikan. (oh hey, she's next!)

Having been bullied myself a fair amount when I was younger, Chihiro is one of about 3-4 characters that hits a little too close to home for me at times (Akane and Mikan are two others).

At the end of DR1, we all learn that everyone lost their school memories and they've all known each other and were all quite close during their time at Hope's Peak. Consider the backgrounds of a young boy in a pretty stable household, but constantly bullied to the point of drastically warping his kind personality, a young boy from a financially and socially ruined family working himself to the bone for his desire to restore his family's name and effectively isolating himself from everyone in the process, and a young boy raised in an environment of crime where he was always an inferior to his only real parental figure.

That's what you get with Fujisaki, Ishimaru, and Oowada, and the time at Hope's Peak is exactly what these three young boys needed in their lives to become men. The three each carry exactly the qualities the others were looking for.

Judging from the fact that Fujisaki is still quite frail and still not in the strongest of shape in the game, we can infer that when he first met Mondo at Hope's Peak, that he likely wanted to train in a similar way to get strong like Mondo, but over time simply became more confident in himself, seeing that he didn't keep to training.

But with their memories gone, Fujisaki effectively lost his confidence, which brings us to the start of DR 1. As it stands Chihiro has done something that no other character to date has done. He doesn't perform an investigation in the first chapter and instead remains in the gymnasium to stay with Mukuro's body. Recall that they already know the solution to who her killer is since Monokuma just executed her. It helps Chihiro stand out a hell of a lot more among the people who weren't doing any legwork investigating because they just didn't give a shit.

Chapter 2 is when things really take off though. Byakuya was just kind of rude at times before in chapter 1, but then he really starts acting like an ass. Chihiro is the one who chooses to stand up against him and when Byakuya pushes back, Chihiro starts to crumble inward. Mondo steps in by this point, but also inadvertently hurts Chihiro's feelings. Fortunately, Mondo owns up to this and does apologize.

His relationship with Mondo in particular expresses the big thing about Chihiro that we're not aware of until the class trial comes into play—he's got an extremely unhealthy view of what it means to be a man. Now, I'm not faulting him for this. Years of bullying can and will often cause you to think in unhealthy ways as Mikan's character has shown us. Chihiro in particular as I said crumbles inward and takes any abuse, and this also warps his view on strength and what it means to be a strong man. In his FTEs, he notably does this with Makoto and evaluates him and deems him a "strong" person in the middle of their conversation.

This is part of why I can't accept the "Chihiro is transgender" headcanon. Not only is that a major insult to the transgender community, it oversimplifies both what that group of people and what people in Chihiro's position are facing. I can agree to disagree with a lot of things, but not on this matter. The two aren't mutually exclusive, and gender norms do tie into part of what Chihiro is dealing with, but Chihiro's problem and solution are two different things. Chihiro has been conditioned by way of bullying to believe that he's weak and that he's a target at any point. As a way out, he decides to dress like a woman and accept his "weakness" which means that men are supposed to be strong, women are weak, and that that strength is what makes a man a man. He's still having all this imposed onto him every time he gets teased or pushed around or anything else. Crossdressing put a bandaid on the situation, but doesn't heal his wounds. If anything, it makes them deeper and only further solidifies what he's internalizing. In that sense, he's a mirror to Mondo, who isn't a bad person, but has also kind of internalized a lot of things about men and women, holding pretty traditional views of each himself. Chihiro's solution is one that even he himself realizes is unhealthy and only hurting and consuming him more and more. Keep in mind I'm not saying the act of crossdressing is unhealthy here, I'm saying that Chihiro accepting the terms of his bullies' logic and forcing it onto himself is. It'd be like if he decided to take steroids to try and fit their image of what he should be like.

He himself doesn't believe himself to be a woman, based on his conversations, and that's an extremely important distinction to note for people wanting to call Chihiro transgender. Somebody in that boat is somebody who ideally will gain empowerment through their decision because they feel the direction they're going to better fits them. Chihiro isn't dressing like a woman for that reason. He's using it as a means of escape and of accepting the terms of his bullies. I feel calling him transgender does a disservice to the trans community by conflating their problems with this matter. Chapter 2 comes around and he sees he's got less than 24 hours until that secret comes to light whether he likes it or not. Even Monokuma points out that rather than breaking down like everyone else who has a threatening motive, Chihiro decides to take his problem head on, he decides he's had enough of running, and that it's time for him to change.

He calls out to Mondo and asks for his help in working out. Chihiro decides he's going to gain physical strength and in the process he also came to realize how much inner strength he has to help him propel forward. (Hey, Mikan. A character with an incredibly useful talent who does their best to help someone and decide to directly oppose one of the motives and end up dying as a result? Sound familiar?) He also becomes a mirror to Toko, as they're the only two characters we know of that seek help from someone else and confess their secret to said person. Mondo was clearly a lot more willing to help Chihiro and was held back by his own inability to face his problems, while Byakuya probably didn't have anything major and instead just threw Toko under the bus to prevent himself from getting killed by Genocider.

Of course, the main event happens, and Mondo happens. All of Mondo's efforts were done to hide Fujisaki's secret, not to try and get away with the murder. He clearly regretted what happened and was under a great deal of pressure himself, but stayed stuck and unsure instead of propelling himself forward the day Chihiro did. I wouldn't be surprised if he had confessed to the murder if not for that reason. Granted, he does push a little bit after the secret is out and he's been noted the killer, but you gotta have some gameplay for the player I guess.

But remember that he chose to pass up falsifying even simple things and while most people would be focused on trying to cover themselves, Mondo goes out of his way to protect Chihiro's secret, again further solidifying his own mindset and contrasting it with Chihiro.

Chihiro manages to carry on in the form of alter ego, meaning he set up for the events of the second game and ends up saving Makoto's life in the fifth trial all from beyond the grave. It's kind of strange that Chihiro would otherwise be a throwaway character who unfortunately died off earlier, but it's quite nice to still see his influence on the series as a whole. You can see how unbelievably kindhearted and trusting he is despite being bullied so much. As a character, I think he's upstanding. I do kind of have to push back against people that only praise Chihiro for dealing with it and then criticize other characters who get bullied because they act like they're undeserving of sympathy solely for not doing enough. I'm not talking about a Hiyoko situation either, since I can understand losing sympathy for someone who has been targeted, but copes by taking it out on other people, but I feel some do act this way toward Mikan, which will be one point of focus in her discussion.

Props to you, Chihiro. Let everyone see how strong you are.

YOU LIKE MIKAN?!

You are officially my new best friend now.

I don't get how people don't like Mikan.

Good analysis here, and I like the way you interpreted Mondo's dynamic with Chihiro as well. I think you might be onto something about a possible confession, either conscious or not, from Mondo. It was, after all, a busy case and trial with Byakuya meddling with evidence and arguing Makoto's points (iirc). If the circumstances were different or if he was given some space earlier he might have confessed, maybe for atonement. It reminds me a lot, in fact, of Gundam's situation in DR2, when he killed Mechamaru - I think that was actually the bravest murder in the series, for a number of reasons.

Definitely one of the most respectable characters in the game. His courage and faith towards his friends rendered monokuma's motive useless on him. I really appreciated that the developers created Alter Ego so Chihiro can "live" longer, which he deserves. Although his fashion sense is disappointing...

Why was his fashion sense disappointing? Just curious-

It's a personal thing lol, but she's wearing dark green AND brown ;(

He*

Well I've never posted on one of these before but seeing as my favourite DR1 character is up, I figured I might.

For someone who died fairly early, I'm surprised by how much he influenced both DR1 and DR2. He created Alter Ego, leading to the survivors' victory against Junko. He created the Neo World Program (though I suppose what we've seen of it has caused more bad than good). He created Chiaki, leading to cute scenes with Hajime and the motivation to make his final decision. I mean, he really is the reason for both games' happy endings.

He is one of a small range of characters I can sympathise for, because he wanted to change and accept himself, unfortunately leading to his death. His anxiety with people also shows how much he cares about making people happy, and I feel like his optimism is carried down into Chiaki. He's also similar to both of my favourite female characters in DR2 (Mikan and Chiaki).

He didn't deserve what he got :(

[S]Hey at the very least the Neo Program's existence prevented the DR2 cast from instant execution, which I'll take. 5 survivors > zero!

I don't think most of the DR1 cast deserve what they got, the memory wipe made the situation beyond messed up :(

Indeed, it seems like classic danganronpa at this point that the physically smallest character had the biggest impact on Danganronpa as a whole of the non-main characters (the main ones being Makoto, Junko, and Hajime)...

I'd say most of the cast agrees that Chihiro didn't deserve it as well, given that even his killer seems frozen by guilt during the trial and the rest of the cast thinks the whole situation is fucked up to begin with...

[S]Unless they were talking about a different Programmer, Chihiro worked with Yasuke and Miaya to make the Neo World Program, which is a pretty cool tie-in. I wonder if Alter Ego will make another appearance in the DR3 Future Arc.

Chihiro best trap -3-

We probably will see a flashback involving miaya, chihiro and yasuke working in the neo world program in future chapter, probably during the judgment of Naegi after spare the ultimate despair and the explanation about the neo world program and why was created.

i honestly didn't like him that much in the first game, but he made Chiaki so...

[S]Not liking him is okay, tbh I liked Chiaki more than Chihiro too despite her numerous faults!

He might be too good, and that's kinda boring as there aren't really any Character flaws. He's also strangely important; he gave a lot of information about the school, he saved Makoto's life, he had a hand in creating the Neo World Program, he even created AI. These problems carried over to Chiaki, but she's not a real person so it makes more sense.

But, even though i don't like him as a Character, he is a great person and i can see why people like him and i'd like to see him in DR3. Did i mention he's really cute?

I'd disagree about him having no flaws, I'd say his main character flaw is probably lack of self worth, which was the reason for him wearing dresses and pretending to be a girl in the first place. Not to mention a contributing factor in him seeking help from Owada rather than either working out himself or just letting the secret be revealed...

It's entirely possible that without that, he would've lived to the end of the game, done even more to improve the odds against despair, and become a big player in Future Foundation...

Chihiro is a character that, even years after originally reading the first game's LP on Something Awful, causes me to have conflicting opinions still because I can appreciate the message and intent that the writer was going for with creating this character and this story arc, but also find it personally disappointing and the weakest part of Danganronpa 1's writing. This will be a very long post, I apologize in advance!

Chihiro's character arc is, obviously, all about strength vs weakness in regards to male and female gender roles. This is the spectre that hangs over every aspect in Chihiro's life. Bullied as a child for not being traditionally masculine, he resorted to dressing as a woman to escape the pressures and judgement from his peers of being seen as "weak" and "girly", and took solace in programming away from the harsh outside world. However, deep down, Chihiro wasn't happy about this, and felt that this was basically giving in to the bullies and social pressures about gender roles, and this only made the problem worse. By the time he arrives at Hope's Peak, at the start of the game, it's very clear how big a toll the stress of keeping this secret is taking. Despite this, he still tries to (but fails) to keep up the group's morale, and to convince them not to partake in Monokuma's killing game. But the high pressure environment only adds to the existing pressures Chihiro faces with his secret.

Then... Chapter 2 happens. Monokuma's motive to reveal the secrets of everyone seems to be targeted towards certain people with bigger things to hide, and Chihiro was one of them. The expectation from Junko was to break him even more. She probably hoped for a breakdown where Chihiro revealed all, and everyone was disgusted and ostracize him again, leading to the oh-so-wonderful despair. But, contrary to her analysis and expectations, Chihiro decided, no, he had been weak in the past, and dressing as a woman only made the problem worse, and having been inspired by other characters (Mondo, Sakura and Kyoko in particular), decided he was going to reveal his secret, and resolve to be true to himself, and get on the path to having inner strength and confidence in himself for who he is. Sadly, he picked the worst person to confide in, who had secret issues over the very same problem rooted in gender roles and strength vs weakness, and ended up dead as a result. Horrible, horrible irony.

I can understand what the intent here was. In a Japanese visual novel, set in a Japanese high school, a place where extreme bullying of this nature does happen with alarming frequency, and in a society where extreme conformity and gender roles are more enforced than here in the West, the story of Chihiro first succumbing to those norms, but finally finding inner strength to break past those norms after inner reflection and turmoil, and be himself regardless of what other people have to say about it, is a good message! It's a clear commentary on this aspect of Japanese society being terribly fucked up. It's part of the running theme in this series that you should always be true to yourself, and to not let yourself be pigeonholed into boxes by others that only serve to ensnare you and stunt your growth (be it your talent, or your gender presentation, etc). On this front, I can accept this storyline, and this was the 'canon' way to read the character. It fits into the game's themes and the tragic parallels with Mondo's character.

The problem is, I think Chihiro's character suffers quite badly from being harder to adapt for a Western audience, we live in societies that don't have this kind of extreme emphasis on conforming to socially expected roles and gender roles like in Japan. The West (to an extent... it's not perfect) celebrates individuality and rising against social pressure. And to me, that is the biggest reason why some fans here take away a transgender story from Chihiro's character.

And I'm okay with this interpretation. In fact, I would've personally have preferred Chihiro to be a trans woman, being a trans woman myself. I can understand the game doesn't agree with this, but at the same time, I actually think the game's attempt to write Chihiro's backstory is incredibly clumsy, and only serves to re-enforce this interpretation amongst some fans.

The storyline of someone struggling with gender identity is a facet applicable to every transgender person alive. Chihiro's arc with weakness vs. strength is explicitly about men being strong compared to women being weak. This is literally THE issue Chihiro struggles with! The problems of being born one gender, but everyone attacks you and mocks you for failing to live up to the assigned social expections of your designated at birth gender. But at the end you learn to overcome your struggles, accept who you are regardless of society's opinion, and resolve to not keep it secret anymore. It doesn't take a genius to see how someone could read this as a story about learning to accept yourself as transgender.

Another problem is, Chihiro dies too soon, and we never get to actually see them living life amongst the students after everyone learns the truth. We never get to hear it straight from Chihiro's mouth. We only learn about this from Monokuma and Mondo's mouths after the Chapter 2 trial. Not exactly reliable narrators, one being a psychopath who will say anything to make people despair, and the other being also... quite limited in scope with regards to beliefs about gender and roles. Of course they'd be going with the SHE WAS A HE ALL ALONG!!! route, and possibly miss nuances in this very complicated issue. Second-hand sources are not trustworthy sources of information.

Finally, I find the backstory of being bullied for not being traditionally masculine/feminine, and your first solution to the problem being to crossdress and pretend to be the opposite sex to be incredibly unconvincing as a thing any cisgender person would resort too, let alone a confused school-age child. Nevermind the fact that then you'd immediately be seen as a freak and pervert and weak EVEN MORESO than before for crossdressing, by the very same people who bullied you already. If you wanted to avoid being bullied for being unmanly, why would you choose this path? I just really get more confused the more I think about this backstory. It falls flat entirely for me. No way would a school agree to cover this up, either, even if you moved schools. I know how intolerable schools can be about trans people and non-conforming uniforms, from personal experience. In this light, Chihiro dressing as a woman reads more as an unconsicous but maybe starting to learn and consider the possibility of being trans to me.

Even little hints in the game seem to support a trans interpretation - Chihiro's admiration of Kyoko and Sakura's strength despite being women at parts of the game can be interpreted as learning to break down the barriers between thinking you are weak, and women are weak, as a trans woman. In the school photos from their forgotten memories, Chihiro still wears the uniform/gym outfit for female students, even though this would be after revealing their secret to everyone. The creation of Chiaki Nanami as an AI can be read as creating a girl who Chihiro maybe aspires to be like (if she isn't just based of someone from Hope's Peak). Alter Ego is designed to look like Chihiro dressed as a woman. The game's writing is very unclear about the whole situation as a whole, and this is why the transgender headcanon exists. And it is a valid way to read Chihiro, honestly. I don't believe it's insulting at all to the trans community to have this interpretation, in fact, with the culture we live in and the lack of transgender characters in media in general, it's a good thing for kids to be able to see characteristics experienced by transgender people in this character honestly. Death of the author is a concept that can be applied here. The author intended one thing but some segments of the audience took away an unintended message. It happens with every character in this franchise, and in every piece of media to ever exist.

You wouldn't even have to change much about the writing (in the original game anyways, ignoring School Mode) to make this a canon trans story... just have Chihiro mention to Mondo wanting to become the woman she knows she is when revealing the secret. That's it. It wouldn't even have the gross connotations of a trans panic killing, because Mondo's reasons for killing Chihiro were unrelated to the gender reveal. With this tiny change, the storyline would've become personally a million times more interesting, unique and relatable to me, and Chihiro would've become one of my favourites. Just personally disappointing for me, even though the intended message towards Japanese audiences absolutely has merit, and is worth discussing. It could've been written a lot better, though, and with less of the obnoxious anime "crossdressing character" stereotype for sure, and without a giant gross 'omg shocking true gender reveal' plot twist moment.

Beyond that whole debate... Chihiro's character and role is pretty simple. Shy, timid, caring, too naive and trusting for their own good, and their talent in programming with Alter Ego is vital to the plot and the survivors escaping Hope's Peak Academy. Without Alter Ego, Makoto would've been executed, the survivors would have fallen into despair and stayed in the school, and Junko would've won. And DR2 would not exist at all. It is incredibly impressive how much influence Chihiro holds over the series despite only being alive for two chapters at the beginning. They overcame their weakness, even in death, to become one of the strongest, supportive characters to the cast, who eventually managed to hold back an enormous crushing death machine. That's a touch I quite like, honestly! So much for being so weak, huh? Stick it to the bullies, Chihiro.

(This is in a separate reply to my own post because my original comment went over the 10,000 character limit unless I removed these two paragraphs, haha.)

I don't intend to change anyone's mind about this debate, and you're welcome to disagree with me. I almost didn't post because I didn't want to bring up this 2013 era debate again, and know it's not a popular opinion. I just want people to understand where I and many other trans people are coming from with this interpretation.

(P.S. in regards to some other comments in here: 'transgendered' is not the term you should be using, it's a redundant word that 'transgender' already does the job for, and it's unintentionally offensive for most trans people, due to the connotations. And 'trap' is just an incredibly rude term towards trans/gender non-conforming people that should never have left chan and anime culture, please don't use it, thank you.)

Compiling the reasoning in your comment, that of /u/TsundereKermit
 above, and what I came in previously thinking about his arc, I personally read it as somewhat critical of the "men strong, women weak, weak man turns to crossdressing for fear of nonconformity" archetype. Chihiro is sometimes shown to have a skewed view on masculinity and how to express it in a healthy way. This is most clearly shown in how even after deciding to confront his weakness in the face of Monokuma's motive, his first line of thought went to the very traditionally masculine act of bodybuilding. That can be contrasted against what little we know of the previous school life where he obviously hadn't been hitting the gym, but seemed happy nonetheless. Perhaps under more favorable circumstances and among loving friends, he'd grow up to find himself and let go of a fixation to normative expression of masculinity? His admiration of Kyoko and Sakura that you mentioned could fit this read as well, as those could be early hints of his character developing towards eventually having that realization under these circumstances. If he'd stayed alive for long enough to come through, that is.

The above interpretation admittedly requires a lot of inferring and guessing since we know next to nothing about the school life. It is also admittedly far from the most straightforward deconstruction in the series, so if it's an aspect of his story that the writers wanted to convey, it could have been made way less ambiguous. But it's food for thought regardless of intent, and after all, that's what we have death of the author for.

Speaking of which, thank you for providing some great insight into the transgender read. I've previously felt wary towards that read because of how it would conflict with the messages I got out of his story and also how a lot of things other characters say and do around Chihiro came across as kind of... problematic to me, if she was in fact trans (of course as I am cis I accept that I have no say in what is and isn't problematic, that's just my personal impression). But with the cultural differences between writers and western audience and the themes you brought up, I think I understand it a lot better now. So, thanks again!

Oh definitely, Chihiro's (and Mondo's, Chapter 2 in a nutshell basically) story is all about toxic masculinity, and making a commentary about its harmful effects on different individuals. No denying that at all! Just with a very Japanese context, haha. The problem is just with how much is lost in cultural translation, and in general with how ambiguously written Chihiro is. It honestly feels like the message the writers wanted to convey had more priority than like, writing Chihiro as an actual realistic character sometimes. I think that's my biggest issue with his character. As many other characters in this series show, it's possible to write a character for a specific reason/message you want to convey to audience, but also make them a realistic character in their own right. Like I said, his backstory is just weird and nonsensical when you think about it, and it doesn't help that the details of their school life are also deliberately kept ambiguous. It would've helped a lot if Chihiro had survived Chapter 2, yeah, but then Mondo's arc would've suffered as a result. It's a lose-lose situation it seems.

My interpretation definitely is that, regardless of gender identity, could be male, female or non-conforming, Chihiro was able to get past their hangups regarding gender roles and traditional masculinity, and be happy as who they currently are, during the past school life. Hence why they still dress in women's clothes, and haven't seem to have done any kind of exercise? It's all so unclear, haha. We definitely seem to have similar views about Chihiro's character though! But definitely I would have preferred the trans woman interpretation, as I said in my initial post. It just would've been something a little more unique, relatable and would've made the backstory make more sense.

But thanks for commenting! I'm glad my reasoning came across as understandable. I can agree that if Chihiro was trans, then the students reactions to her "true gender" reveal and consequently being all "she... no, he I guess..." would be pretty transphobic. In a Watsonian in-universe sense, I'd be accepting of this, because they are just teenagers after all. Not the most socially informed people in the world. In a Doylist out-of-universe sense, I'd have issues with how it was written. It's just a complicated issue all around sadly. But yeah thanks again for your insightful comment! :)

Chi is basically one of the only dead characters that still has a presence after the first game. For someone that really only lasts two chapters, thats a pretty big deal. Id even say he holds more weight for Naegi than Maizono, just because of Alter Ego.

Chihiro is the best character, imo.

Chihiro one of my favourite Dangan Ronpa characters and one of my favourite fictional characters in general. His struggle with his insecurities is very relatable, his personality is great and beyond adorable, and his courage to change himself when presented with a challenge is very admirable. All he does for the series is amazing, being able to make a AI in such a little time is incredible and he saved Makoto's life with it, not to mention all his work for DR2.

I can't think of a single thing I don't love about him, all of his flaws make me like him more. I guess if I had to choose something it would be the fact he's so precious I spend all my money to make a character shrine for him and Chiaki.

Chihiro is best boy and girl

i have my hopes for him returning in DR3 in some way or another, he's adorable and also one of the most important characters, seeing as he made chiaki, alter ego (which saved naegi's life), and the neo world program. which, without that, we wouldn't have even had a DR2! or a DR3 for that matter. good on you, #1 waifu.

I first encountered Chihiro in the Anime. When he introduced himself I immediately felt something off about her at the time. I couldn't quite out my finger on it immediately but the I realized that it was his over-detailedly drawn hand and his voice. Every time he spoke I felt like it was off. At first I concluded that he was in fact a female but a lesbian one. Ikik weird. But after realizing that he was a boy in disguise I felt so much connection to him. I related so hard to him in always being told to 'man-up' and being bullied because of how I was. I put on this 'weak' facade and I feel like people will sympathize me similar to Chihiro. He became my favorite character when he was revealed to be male. And he will continue to be my favorite because of what he represents. I'm sure Chihiro's curse will continue and in death there is always beauty and admiration.

I'm afraid I won't be able to give much insight into Chihiro, he sets off cuteness proximity whenever I look at him for obvious reasons...

Still, I'm sure the whole "being bullied into acting like someone you're not" rings familiar with many people... Then there's the double subversion of expectations of originally being portrayed as a female programmer (which was done several times in Danganronpa alone, giving female characters traditionally male roles and arguably isn't much of a subversion anymore), then being revealed as a male cross dresser made Chihiro a character full of surprises.

For the most part I really liked chihiro. He's a sweetheart and I wanted to hug and comfort him alot. I was bullied too so I know that feel. Cute as a button too.

What I didn't like however is the weak justification the game uses for his crossdressing. It just didn't add up and felt contrived to me. Dressing as a girl to 'give into his weakness'? Meh.

The game could have gone with a better justification than that...and not feed into an inaccurate portrayal of transgirls. I guess they got half of it right....ultimate programmer...lol.

I know that you probably don't count Danganronpa Zero, but Yuto Kamishiro (Ultimate Secret Agent) implies Chihiro Fujisaki when he said he has a younger friend who hacks the computers and fetches info for him, in the end this gave a lot of information on Junko Enoshime and the Tragedy of Hope's Peak.

Character Discussion #31 - Mikan Tsumiki (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Nurse

Game: Goodbye Despair

Status: Comatose

Notable Roles:

Prone to tripping and ending up in compromising positions, used as evidence in Chapter 1

Performs autopsy reports for bodies

Joins the girls swimming party in Chapter 2

Appears in the game motive for Chapter 2

Falls under the Despair Disease in Chapter 3, causing her to remember her origins as Ultimate Despair and commits murder

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Nurse, Mikan Tsumiki!

Last week we had Chihiro, and despite how I posted, really the only thing I care for about Chihiro is that they have a respectable message you can take from the character. I actually find that's pretty much it in terms of what I care about. Mikan if you don't know is my favorite of the Danganronpa women, so let's jump right in, shall we? Part of why Mikan hits so close to home for me is because I was bullied myself for several years, and I'm more of a fan of how she's presented than Chihiro.

Mikan kind of hit the motherload and also gets the short end of the stick at the same time. Her base character comes mostly from Chihiro, Asahina, and Kyoko in DR 1. What a steal, right? She got some fan favorites for sure…until you play the game and see she's getting kicked around by everyone, even the game itself.

With Kyoko, we get to see that she came off as super confident, only to show the game blow more and more away of that and see she does have her share of issues and insecurities at the end. The game does the opposite with Mikan, and it's part of why I don't care for Chihiro.

To me, Chihiro feels like one of those fictional bullying stories written by someone who never has been bullied. You know what I mean. The ones with the one dimensional bully where they say "Just stand up to them" and everything in the story conveniently works out and the person being bullied has absolutely zero flaws and is able to process everything absolutely perfectly. Chihiro does internalize some negative messages regarding men and women, but for the most part, I still felt he was a pretty much "no flaws" kind of guy relative to the rest of the cast.

Then comes Mikan. I can understand why people might be put off by it, but for what they're trying to present, I love a great deal of her character and how they present things. Mikan is timid, her FTEs can be incredibly awkward at times. Hajime inadvertently hurts her feelings at times and it's quite clear she's got a really unhealthy view on processing things but is still trying to cope the best way she can. Mikan explicitly tells us she doesn't enjoy being bullied, but does so figuring that abuse is better than being ignored and not getting to "exist." It's not healthy, and it's not always pleasant, but Mikan is closer to the type of character I like to see when it comes to this kind of thing. Her FTEs definitely show that she's been physically, emotionally, and most likely sexually abused.

I'm not a huge fan of the fanservice, but I do think it's worth noting that the first bit of it isn't just specific to Mikan fanservice, two instances of it afterward in chapter 1 are her doing it intentionally going back to the same point about being ignored, and the second one in the third chapter is being done intentionally to establish an alibi. I could kind of stomach it, but the execution was definitely needlessly sexualized and that one was the main one where I felt the most put off. Keep in mind I was someone who picked Mikan for in-game FTEs my first time playing, so that helped me stomach the fanservice.

I mentioned she was like Kyoko though. One very consistent thing about Mikan that a lot seem to overlook is that her character is very much like Kyoko. The most obvious being the fact that she's a coroner, but she does carry the group as a core member even apart from that. Excluding the chapter where she's the killer, nearly every one of her assertions are right, and even the ones that aren't are incredibly reasonable, like her suggesting there might be an accomplice that moved Mahiru's body in place of the killer, meaning the killer might not have blood on them.

Mikan is timid and insecure in most of her life, but the game makes a notes in her FTEs, when Akane is injured, and when treating the DD patients that she becomes a lot more assertive and confident when it comes to tending to the sick and herself in general, at the top of it declaring that she will not let Nagito die. Kyoko had the luxury of being the ultimate detective in a murder mystery, so she's always in her element. She's not insecure to the degree of Mikan (that's more Chihiro) but her FTEs do revolve around her building trust and learning to get closer to Makoto by the end of it the same way Mikan gradually trusts in Hajime.

Now for the final part. Mikan was mostly used to foreshadow one of the biggest twists in the game. If you read my thing on Nagito, you'd see how I said he was written in such a way to make you toss aside the bigger twists with his insanity. The game lays a similar trap with Mikan. The moment you see her as a victim, you've already fallen into it. When she starts saying she loves her beloved, we've seen nothing but insecurity and abuse out of Mikan's fate, so it helps to push everything onto Mikan's insecurity, thinking "of course she'd do something like this. It helps to isolate Mikan and keep from connecting the lost memories to everyone else. The game even gives us insight to her the way they do with Nagito when you get to play as him in Chapter 4, since Mikan is the player character of the game in the second chapter, and we get insight to the person being relevant to the next chapter the exact same way.

But the game doesn't seem to enjoy stopping there. She helps with the investigations and doesn't seem to get much attention for it. She's helpful in the trials. She saves the group from being executed twice thanks to her work. Hell, even her murder plan is arguably the most well thought out plan in the entire series. Keep in mind I'm referring to her original plan because even the game screws her over and forces her into an unplanned double murder. Her original plan is the best because it kills off one person, leaves next to no evidence at all (you'd have the rope, the camera pieces, the corpse, the heater, and her autopsy report), a cause of death that leaves behind no blood (which used as evidence, screws over every killer), and doesn't go for anything fancy or crazy.

She throws off the time of death and makes sure she has an alibi. It's probably the simplest plan in the series and would have the highest chance of success. The whole twist of someone walking in on you can happen with any killing and it's the only thing ruining her plan. Her plan isn't genius in the sense of something like Nagito's unsolvable murder, but hers just feels the most like an actual plan you'd try to get away with. Nagito's plan was very good, don't get me wrong, but good luck actually trying to pull that off and have all the billion things that could go wrong work out.

That brings me to the last point. Remember our DR 1 chapter 3 killer and how she throws out a little lie about a European castle where she can surround herself with her servants? This reminds me a great deal of the image shown in chapter 6 when Junko is explaining her plan to junkofy mankind. Mikan was obviously there to foreshadow the game and be a bit of a Nagito (I still don't care for a lot of how trial 3 was handled) but Mikan would have a similar image and her own agency in this if she regained her memories and wanted to finish up the plan. Had she won the trial, she'd be free to leave and can surround herself with Junkos, who she believed loved her (obviously it was abusive), and she'd be like Celeste there surrounded by people not bullying her and living in a world where she can be loved an accepted, surrounded by caring people.

Mikan is the character I like seeing when it comes to bullying stuff, because her breaking down so easily and her timid side paired with her strength and confidence coming out when she needs to and showing she has it is much more engaging and accurate for me when I see bullying stories. I also don't like the attitude that she can be criticized for her insecurity given her background if Chihiro can be praised for working to stop it, and that he would as a result be deserving of more warm reception. Good going, Mikan. She's definitely my favorite of the Danganronpa women even if parts of the story didn't do her justice or handle her well.

Mikan's my favorite of the DR girls as well but I am confused why she bothered to throw off the time of death with the heat when she could've just...lied about it. Arguably would've made her plan more foolproof

Anyway, I love Mikan a lot. I absolutely refused to believe she was the killer in Chapter 3 even though all the clues were pointing to her. I thought the game might pull a fakeout or something because I hate the "innocent/sweet girl is actually a crazy killer" twist

When Mikan screams "I'm not the killer!" during one of the non-stop debates, I think that was the moment in the series where I felt the most despair. I still wanted to trust her and I thought it must've been terrible if she was innocent but was still being attacked on all sides by everyone accusing her of being the killer

I figure the heater wasn't so much to actually throw off a time of death, but more to give her an excuse. She's given really clear information in the last two trials, so she needs a legitimate reason as to why she can't give them a straight answer, hence she uses the heater. As for the video, she needed an excuse for why she lost Ibuki's attention. Having her up in the hospital would prove she was innocent if you thought Ibuki just died because she would have had to pass Hajime in order to get to the music venue.

I love Mikan a lot too. I absolutely love the idea of her being a killer as much as I hate to see her killed off, and while I don't think it was fully realized, it's still not enough for me to see her as any less than one of my favorites.

I don't believe I mentioned it in my first post, but a friend of mine (also a Mikan fan) who was playing suspected she was the killer at this point, but thought that it was a mercy kill for Ibuki and for whatever reason, she also killed Hiyoko and got tired of her bullying or something.

I really like how you compared Mikan to Kyoko, Celeste, and Chihiro. I see the similarities and differences that I didn't even think to look into. This is why I love these discussions because I learn a lot more and end up loving the character even more, thanks to these types of comments!

When Mikan talks about Junko, it was obvious it was from a more obsessive outlook rather than them having a personal and loving relationship. (Like you said, if it was a relationship it would have been abusive.) Just as Celeste fantasies (if it was her actual dream) about having a European castle with vampire servants.

I agree that Chihiro's bullying story seemed outlandish and very anime-ish. I definitely couldn't relate to him and I didn't get attached to him because of how odd his reaction is. I just don't see how anyone will come up with a solution to bullying as dressing as a different gender. Maybe it happens, but they handled that poorly just as poorly as his character.

What I like about Danganronpa is the somewhat realistic and simplistic murders. Some are well thought out and some just happen in an instant. I can see how some people may try executing their plans that way or reacting ways the characters did.

[S]Preach, I always did like Mikan more than Chihiro but it always feels like Chihiro is insanely more popular sometimes.

I agree, but I guess I always assumed that the reasons their personalities were so different was because Mikan has been bullied all her life, while Chihiro took a path to escape his own bullying. So instead of being constantly worried about others abusing him (as those around him assume he's a girl) he instead internalizes shame instead. Mikan is inherently more sympathetic because her bullying has been going on for her entire life--its the most important part of her backstory. Chihiro being bullied was the catalyst to where he is today but that almost feels like an afterthought because the game focuses on his struggles to change rather than (like with Mikan) how he was affected by the bullying.

Mikan Tsumiki... certainly is a divisive character for people. Personally, I like her overall, she was definitely one of the more interesting, well-written characters from DR2, and served as a nice deconstruction of the shy, timid, clumsy female fanservice anime archetype character. But also, the game is pretty blatant about having its cake and eating it too on using her as straight fanservice bait regardless, and that doesn't sit well with me.

I can understand why people don't like her. Honestly, I really did not like Mikan when we are first introduced to her in the game. Her introduction basically paints the above: Shy, timid, quick to tears and apologies. She spends most of the early game being bullied by Hiyoko, apologising for the slightest 'offense' when talking to anyone, or having an incredible talent for tripping and becoming a fanservice pose. None of these things really endeared her to me, and I wrote it off as part of the larger problem I had of DR2 increasing the anime aspects tenfold from DR1.

Then she managed to get over her anxiety and timidness to basically save everyone from being executed in Chapter 1's trial, thanks to her nursing talent allowing her to point out that the murder weapon wasn't what everyone assumed, and therefore the initial suspect wasn't actually the killer. The use of her talent to perform autopsies on the victims to provide useful information for the trial, therefore being one of the more useful students is incredibly obvious in hindsight as a plot role, but I hadn't considered it at all, and it made her just a little more interesting to watch. It was part of DR2 integrating the character's talents into the killing game aspects, which was definitely a good change from DR1.

But... then Chapter 3 comes along, and causes opinion to drastically divide to this day. This is actually my favourite chapter after Chapter 2, and I absolutely loved the direction taken with Mikan during this chapter. Catching Despair Disease and regaining her memories is obviously a plot device, there's no denying that, but I still loved the execution of it. Using her talent, previously to help out the students' investigations, to now hinder those same investigations and cause her to devise a very specific murder plan was a brilliant way to initially deceive the player into not suspecting her before the truth creeps up on you during the trial. As a pure murder mystery case, it's my favourite in the series. If Hiyoko hadn't walked in on her about to kill Ibuki and complicating everything, she might have managed to get away with it entirely due to lack of last-minute planning.

But that's not the only reason I like Chapter 3. This is where the deconstruction of Mikan's character archetype really comes into play. As she's accused, she initially plays up the defenseless timid clumsy girl schtick even harder, but as more evidence comes to light and everyone rails against her, she abandons this act and starts to furiously fight her case. Why do people always blame her and want her to suffer, no matter how much she apologizes or tries to appease them? Why is she always the victim? She's sick and tired of being walked all over, trying to please people who don't seem to even care about her.

This is the core reason behind Mikan falling into Despair. Junko saw a girl who had been extremely abused in her home and school life (as seen in her free times/Island Mode, and in Twilight Syndrome) and took immediate advantage of the easy bait offered to her. Love her, make her feel good about herself, tell her its just the two of them against the world, Junko's the only person who REALLY cares about her. It's easy to see how someone with extreme anxiety but with a massive need for attention (her fanservice falls are heavily implied to be deliberate ploys) would fall prey to this manipulation and eventually end up committing murder over it. Remembering the only person who loved her, who drove you to do awful things because it would prove how much Mikan was devoted to Junko, of course she would break entirely.

Chapter 3 was entirely about foreshadowing the plot twist with the DR2 cast turning out to be Ultimate Despair. I feel though people will disagree, but I don't mind Mikan's ultimate role in the story being to foreshadow this, because it's not her entire character anyways, and I felt it was written well, where on a first playthrough, you have no idea what happened in her past or who Mikan's beloved is, but upon finishing the game, reflect back and go "Oh, wow, OF COURSE." Wonderfully plotted seeding of the endgame. I like the idea that since Ultimate Despair knew about Junko's plot to download her AI into their comatose bodies, that Mikan committed murder out of hope that she would successfully leave the simulation and wake up into a world where she would be surrounded by infinity amounts of the one person who she thought loved her. It paints a lot about her backstory when this was the idea of paradise for her, and it's heartbreaking.

Mikan's monologue during the aftermath of Chapter 3's trial is one of my favourite speeches from the game. She accuses the students as a proxy for the people who watched her suffer everyday thanks to school bullies and her most-likely abusive family and did nothing to help her. She states that the reason she became Despair is because of many human relationships, where the directly abusive ones AND the indirectly uncaring/unwilling ones are both equally responsible for this conclusion. It's a tragically poignant message, nobody helped Mikan when she needed it most, and now she's gone past the point of redemption.

It also appears to be a commentary towards people who usually enjoy the clumsy fanservice anime girl archetypes. Someone only becomes the way Mikan is (subservient, eager to please and quick to tears, shy and repeatedly getting into humiliating situations for attention) because of an extremely abusive past, and it's not something to enjoy, admire or ignore for your own needs. This kind of personality doesn't happen in real-life without some serious issues behind it. It's an uncomfortable realisation, and you're supposed to feel uncomfortable and upset about her character in this light.

Of course, the game ruins this message by repeatedly using Mikan as fanservice and comedy, sometimes both, throughout her time in the game, which can be a little too gross and eye-rolling. Her execution was also needlessly sexualized, the one time it was completely out of place. It really tarnishes the above message, and makes it quite hypocritical. I feel like the writer wanted to explore this subversion of this character archetype but also either: personally enjoys these scenes or had a mandate from above to include more pandering stuff for the intended demographic. Either way, a let-down for Mikan's character entirely.

One thing I will give her execution, although it's definitely the weakest and weirdest out of the two games, compared to the other executions, is the links between how she killed her victims and how she is killed. Strangled Ibuki to death, and slit Hiyoko's throat. Both wounds to the neck/trachea, which connects the mouth and lungs. Mikan is killed by being shot into space, where she dies of oxygen deprivation. It's quite fitting. Also alludes to her dislike of 'big things', the wide expanse of space.

Overall though, once you've experienced Chapter 3, everything about Mikan's interactions and character throughout the game suddenly takes on a tragic tinge to it all, and her free-time scenes and Island mode scenes have a darker side to them all. Even as Hajime begins to understand her and wants to protect her in her Free-Time, and that in Island Mode he and Mikan can find a happier, healthier relationship than anything she's ever had, always has a depressing underside to it, because regardless, her canon fate is to fall into despair, cast off her classmates and bonds, devote herself entirely to one person's cause, and end her life basically flipping off the world that mistreated her. It's not a happy ending for Mikan Tsumiki, the girl who deserved one just as much as anyone else but who was never given a chance in the canon story.

An absolutely tragic character, where on one hand, Mikan was an innocent who just wanted to help others, and for people to love her. But on the other hand, has a darker side to her where she would do anything for attention and power, including nursing sick, dependent people, and culminating in becoming part of the terrorist, murdering Ultimate Despair. Very multi-layered character, and beyond my initial expectations of her entirely. One of my favourites from DR2.

Ah...Mikan Tsumiki...so far my favorite female character of the series.

You may ask "Why you like her? What do you think of her? What you even see on her?" Is simple.

Well, i'm one of those people who is not so fond of our overrated female heroine Chiaki Nanami, and prefer Mikan. I believe some people might hate her for how clumsy she is that sometimes can be a bit forced and principally for her fanservice moments. She actually made me laugh sometimes but of course i find very cute her moments with Hajime but let's go to the point. So far, Mikan is one of the characters that we can't help but to feel sorry for her(even if is for bit for some people) and also like her determination. Well at least for me. Both she and hiyoko have been bullied and abused on their past but Mikan managed to become very shy and always feel sorry about whatever she do. She might have some weird habits like walking around with a syringe(targetting Hajime most of times) but she didn't had a properly raise and her past caused her to become a person that is very easy to put down. Even though she is shy and clumsy to the point of stuttering when she talks, she is actually very kind and caring, doing whatever it takes to care about her friends when they need something. That's some things i really like on Mikan. She had a pretty bad past yet she still wants to help people and even become the ultimate nurse for help people in the hospitals since she want to be useful for everyone. In her free time events, you have some hints about what she have been through and it's a bit shocking that she doesn't even care when someone humiliates her or do something bad to her. But she just keeps continuing.

Her backstory is a bit polemic, because it involves some serious subjects like abuse in many ways, mistreatments, bully and etc., which unfortunally still occur nowdays and many times, even cause depression(Probably one of the reasons people feel bad for her). Sometimes, i feel a bit annoyed that some people hate Mikan because she killed Ibuki(Instead of analyzing Mikan in a more deep way to give a properly argument of why they hate her). Mikan is not someone bad, she just have been influenced by the wrong person but it can't be helped since she was very dependent of someone after so many bad things that happened with her. The result would be so much different if it was at least Makoto or Kirigiri who looked over her instead of Junko.

[S]This just put the thought in my head, but instead of Makoto or Kirigir, now I wish Sakura and Mikan became best buds. We already know Sakura is one of the kindest people in the DR-verse, and I think she'd protect Mikan from bullies and support her emotionally (just look at her friendship with Hina). At the same time, she's sure to get injuries from her fights as shown with the scars she has, and Mikan can be there patching her up, giving her a feeling of self worth as well.

The more I think about it, the more I wish they were in the same class or knew each other earlier, cause maybe Mikan could've avoided the path she went down if that was the case.

I'm not mad that she killed Ibuki, I'm mad that she killed Hiyoko

Just kidding... or am I?

Yes, yes I am

Who could downvote you for this? Have my upvote fellow Teruteru / Hiyoko fan.

Ah, such a poor unfortunate girl. While I think Usami got it harder in the game, Tsumiki lived her entire life as the target of bullying and neglect. She can't can't catch a break during the game either, she's horribly embarrassed about her fanservice moments, one of which becomes plot relevant forcing it to be rubbed in her face, and Hiyoko picks on her constantly (no matter what you think of either character, that much is undeniable). Even the one person who she supposedly loves was Junko, who was likely using her to fill out her roster for Ultimate Despair (though I suppose we'll see more on that when the anime comes out).

She seemingly had no friends until Hope's peak, but she did find a place with Ibuki, Hiyoko and Mahiru during their time there. Of course, we all know that didn't turn out too great, they all end up in Ultimate Despair.

However, from their interactions in the Ch2 motive and her FTEs, Mikan seems more comfortable being picked on than having someone try to help her, or worse, ignoring her. It's entirely possible people have tried to help her in the past, but the way she remembers it is them bullying her regardless of their actual intention. I wouldn't hold it against her myself, but I'm sure there's plenty who would get annoyed at it.

I actually find it a bit unsettling that she's the Ultimate Nurse, what would you think if your doctor said they were "self taught" in medicine? And that they had operated on themselves regularly? She tries to help as best she can, but how many times must she have treated herself for disease before learning the ins and outs of quarantining, or how many shots she must've given herself to become familiar with all the medicines in the pharmacy? It's almost impressive she's even alive if she actually went through all that.

I like her. A lot. At first I thought "aaah the moeshit character that also happens to be the fanservicey one, yeah... next" and I do hate moeshit personalities made just for the sake of moe and fanservice out of nowhere, so I asumed I wouldn't like her one bit. BUT NO, she became my favourite female in DR2 above Ibuki. She's the moeshit character? Sure as hell she is. But she's an hyperbole of that, a well made parody of all moe characters in animu until now. Crying every sentence? Check. Apologizing for existing? Check. Managing to trip and fall in a sexual pose in impossible manner?? CHECK. She's parodying all the burn out stereotypes and bringing them to the next level so you recognice them perfectly and laugh your ass, because how many times have you seen a badly written female character cry out of nowhere and think "wow this show sucks how can she be such a bad character" but you couldn't drop the series because the main plot dragged you along and you swallowed that character??? Mikan brings back all your memories from past moeshit experiences and makes it on such a ridiculous level that you have no choice, you have to laugh, and oh my god her moments are so good.

Now talking about Mikan's character letting the parody aside; you can end up liking her a lot if you are a shy person. You may not cry all the time and say sorry every sentence, but you know what I mean. If you're shy it's probable you say "I'm sorry" a lot, most times to reasure you're not hurting people or annoying them in any way even if they already told you everything's ok. How many times have you been insulted and you keep your mouth shut but in your deeps you think "it's true, I'm an idiot"? Well, Mikan does say it out loud, so you can see you're not the only ond that has those thoughts about themselves! And finally, Mikan hurts herself, thinks lowly of her, gets bullyied, thinks everyone hates her, she's scared easily and she's always ready to put the blame of everything on herself. In short, Mikan's scared of life and has low self esteem, but aren't we all aswell? You don't have to be shy to experience these feelings from time to time, everyone does have down moments... Mikan's the little voice of your scared selfdestructive little part of your personality. But note that she's always "forgiven" when she blames herself and Hajime is almost 100% of the time trying to make her see she has friends, nobody is gonna make her the clown and that she can drop the act and feel free to smile and relax. And we know Hajime's right. I'd say almost never when Mikan apologizes, she actually has done something to atone for. And we can extrapolate that to ourselves when we get anxious thinking everything is our fault. It's like the game is telling you she's done nothing and has nothing to apologize for and it's telling you "wake up and stop blaming yourself for existing, you shy person. Mikan is wrong and so are you".

In short, as a shy person, I really feel Mikan reflects an hyperbole of me on an anxious state of mind and makes me realise I'm not the only one that has such thoughts sometimes and that I shouldn't feel bad for being myself. She's great, so funny and relatable, best girl indeed.

Edit: lots of misspells, sorry, english is not my mother tongue

You still pretty well, I like your analysis and I agree with a persons personal shyness helps you relate with her more as it did for me

I am here with my people, Tsumiki flairs unite

Mikan Tsumiki deserves better. She is too kind and helpful to warrant all the shit that happened to her.

Her constant apologizing and anxiety over having done the wrong thing is often played off for laughs in the game, but whenever I saw it, it just broke my heart. This girl is so afraid and insecure and was treated so terribly in the past that she has to ask if it's okay to remember your name. How can you possibly not be heartbroken at that? Every time she apologizes and ends up almost crying for laughing or calling you her friend, I just want to hug her and tell her she did nothing wrong.

I want her to smile and be happy and make friends and find joy in life because she deserves it. Because she has suffered so much that she deserves something for sticking through her terrible life for so long, being sweet and kind the whole way through(until Junko came along).

I want her to smile and be happy and make friends and find joy in life because she deserves it. Because she has suffered so much that she deserves something for sticking through her terrible life for so long, being sweet and kind the whole way through(until Junko came along).

DR3 Despair Arc is gonna be sucker punch after punch then... I'm already not ready for it, I too just wanna see Tsumiki happy but we all know we're not getting that in Despair Arc... or a 'different' type of happiness with Junko I guess.

nostop

don't do this to me

We get to watch her slow descent into madness and bullying first hand :D

It's okay I'm dying inside too

And don't forget, the only person who ever convinced her that they loved her was only using her to fill out their inner circle...

my waifu

As some people here know, I absolutely love Mikan. Second only to my ice queen Celeste. I love how her abuse affected her. I identify with her because of it. Her constant "I'm sorry don't hate me" and "forgiVE ME PLEASE" really speaks to me. My only gripe with her character stems from her trial. I think the motive was very poorly handled, and it detracts from her character, I think.

As someone on this sub suggested, it could have been handled better just from a plot standpoint if she were so desperate to cure Ibuki that she killed her outright. Or she was so exhausted from nursing the students back to health that she accidentally killed one of them. It would help her character out so much.

The despair disease fucked her up, sadly. I always thought Mikan deserved a better motive, I'd like to see a reason why the sane-non-despair Mikan would get to actually kill somebody, tbh. The DD felt artificial and knowing it was all a game makes it feel like an intervention in Junko's part more than Mikan's heart being corrupted by despair and bringing her to killing TWO persons...

yeah, it really didn't do her character justice

...Yandere!! AHHHHHHHHH!! run away

That's not yandere at all.

I just feel like saying :P

ehh if anything I'm more of a Tsundere like Celeste

fite me

...I wonder if you would be the type of tsundere that would say "I-Is not like i did that lunch for you because i like you or something! I just happened to have more with me!" XP

[S]What's this? The discussion is posted at a normal hour? I'm actually heading off to sleep early because of Zero Time Dilemma tomorrow, so better early than late I thought. Sorry to everyone who actually write these up in advance and I just hurried the deadline by a few hours

Poor old Mikan though, I always felt like the cast were all bystanders to Hiyoko's bullying of her and probably should've spoke up or something, but I guess Mikan had the last laugh. The entire Ch 3 trial leaves a sour taste in my mouth, but I do enjoy that we actually got to see what she was like in Despair, as opposed to a majority of the cast.

I've discussed how I felt about Mikan in the past so I guess this is the time to do it again.

Initially, I thought Mikan was just some clumsy fanservice made for comic relief but her FTEs really give out a lot of background of her troubled life. For someone that's been bullied, shes pretty relatable, but a disturbing thing about her FTEs is the fact she doesn't mind getting bullied as she's more afraid of being ignored by everyone, as well as her first instinct is to act like an object to others (evident from her first FTE where she asks Hajime if she has to strip naked in fear that he ends up ignoring her). Her reasoning for being a nurse is a bit disturbing too, as she feels taking care of weaker and sick patients gives her power over them and her Island mode ending straight up gives her Yandere vibes by saying she wants to cripple Hajime so she could take care of him forever. Her transformation from the despair bug shows her having love for Junko to the point that she didn't care about killing Ibuki and Hiyoko. I'm guessing Junko had a lot of influence on her because of how vulnerable Mikan is from her desperation of not being ignored.

Overall, it's pretty bad how much abuse she takes and it's like one of those characters that you just want to give a big hug to. She's one of my favourite characters.

(Apologies if this is messy, it's my first time posting in a Weekly Character Discussion and I'm a bit tired but I really wanted to post stuff about Mikan)

[S]You don't have to worry about it being messy, half the time I ramble on things not even related to Danganronpa, like this discussion's comment pfft.

Also Mikan definitely had slight yandere vibes and bizarro moments throughout the game (when you "meet" Mikan and Ibuki in Ch 2 with Kazuichi, she randomly blurts out I WON'T FORGIVE YOU or something like that before going back to being meek), but everything she is, she is due to her environment and that's really the saddest part of her character.

I wish in DR2 more of the cast did nice things with her, I can only distinctively remember Chiaki playing games with Mikan one morning and that's one of the few times she seemed genuinely happy with someone else.

Here we are, at long last. My favorite character.

Now, at first, I wasn't a huge fan of Mikan Tsumiki. Her over-the-top shyness and anxiety, combined with her clumsiness (a trait often used in lieu of actual character flaws), made her feel like just another anime stereotype turned up to 11, and I never really liked those sorts of characters. I predicted that she would either die early on, turn psycho and become a killer, or, somehow failing that, she'd have a character arc where she angsts about being unable to save anyone. At which point my friend interjected with the following statement:

"so the ultiment [sic] nurse is actually safe cause she gives you an autopsy report on all the cases and they are very important."

Now, in hindsight, she was obviously full of shit, but I had no way of knowing that. She was the sort of person to make shit up if it was funny enough, but she'd never done that with Dangan Ronpa before, and certainly not about anything as important as who lives or dies. Besides, I had no real attachment to Mikan at this point, so I figured she wouldn't gamble and lie about something she wasn't sure she'd get a reaction out of. It's the sort of trick that only works once, after all. So I made a mental note that Mikan wouldn't die, and moved on.

Hearing about the autopsy reports was one thing, but seeing her in action was entirely different. The moment where she finally speaks up and tells everyone Nagito couldn't have been the killer was easily my favorite moment of the first trial. Hell, probably one of the best moments in the game, to be honest. It is cemented in my mind as the moment my opinion on her started to change.

And then I decided to take a look at her free time events. I only managed the first two before Chapter 3's trial, but they definitely gave me a lot more insight into why she acts the way she does. With the way she's put up with abuse and neglect her entire life, she's easily in the running for 'most tragic backstory in DR', and there's a lot of competition there.

I'm also pretty sure the biggest reason Hiyoko is my least favorite character is because Mikan is my favorite. Being a bitch is one thing, but being a bitch almost exclusively towards characters that don't deserve it and have a long history of being bullied? Blegh.

By the time Peko got executed, I was more invested in Mikan's survival than anyone else's. Sure, there were other characters I liked, but this was the first time, even counting the first game, that I felt like I wouldn't actually be able to handle someone's death. But that was okay, because she was the only one guaranteed to survive, right? She wasn't in any danger, because my friend would never lie about something like this.

Right?

As you can imagine, I didn't take Chapter 3's trial well. At all. Obviously, I felt betrayed by my friend. But it also felt like the game betrayed me, in a way. I mean, after Leon's self-defense excuse, Mondo's anger issues becoming a fatal flaw, Sakura simply being stuck in a shit situation, Teruteru's panicky desperation to stop Nagito and see his mother again, and Peko's desire to simply protect her young master, we're just gonna go ahead and say "yeah actually Mikan just did it because she was crazy and evil, she's basically irredeemable"? Hell, even Celeste's shitty reasoning for murder was pretty in line with her established personality. It felt like it went against a major theme of the series, and I couldn't even begin to understand why. I even felt betrayed by myself, for wanting someone to live and be happy so badly in a series where those things usually don't happen. I mean, come on, I should've known better. I did know better, but I ended up ignoring myself and became emotionally devastated as a result.

Ultimately, though, Chapter 6 helped put things in perspective. The fact that everyone but Chiaki was just as bad as her was a hollow comfort, but hey - beggars can't be choosers. If nothing else, I'm convinced that any of them would've acted the same had they been unlucky enough to recover their memories. So, in the grand scheme of things, she more or less ended up being sacrificed for the sake of foreshadowing. I still don't like it, mostly because it gives her an undue reputation as 'the crazy one' (and the other remnants of despair barring Nagito are usually given a free pass because their villainy was committed offscreen), but now I understand why the writers went in that direction.

There's also something undeniably tragic about seeing Hajime talk about how he wants to see her change and grow as a person at the end of her FTEs when, merely days later, she is inevitably doomed to regain her memories, and throw away everything she has in dedication to a dead woman who never really cared about her to begin with. I mean, I suppose it's kinda like that with everyone who doesn't live to the end, but still. She's the main reason I want the comatose students to wake up, because even now it's hard to bear the thought of someone so troubled and in need of help dying over something so pointless. She definitely deserved better.

But hey! All fiction is equally fictitious, and Dangan Ronpa canon is a sad place for sad people. In other words, saying she's actually married to Hajime and living a happy and fulfilling life is just as wrong as saying she got executed, because none of it ever really happened to begin with! at least that's what i tell myself

Anyways, I've just about reached the end of my thoughts here. Here's a couple of Mikan-related links I think you guys might enjoy:

/r/TsumikiMikan - Someone else started up a subreddit based around her. Saying it's unpopular is a bit of an understatement, but I'd love to see it get more attention.

Attenuation - A post-despair fanfic centered around Mikan. There's only 5 chapters at the moment, but it's definitely worth a read.

Mikan was probably the first character I was attached to first. Meeting her was what instantly grabbed me as she nervously introduced herself and apologized for things she didn't need to be sorry for.

I could also relate to her. Being shy and anxious myself I have less extreme ways I handle it. Also having experienced abuse, I could see why she reacts the way she does.

What put me off of her character was the fanservice. I really really hate fanservice. I thought the creators did an excellent job by giving it a reason for happening.

Her execution bothered me because it made me really uncomfortable, but it was also not what I was hoping it would be. I was hoping she would be injected until she exploded or something much more cool, or at least us seeing her suffocating in space.

Chapter 3 is pretty lanky and odd but I still enjoyed it. It was pretty obvious to me who the culprit would be since there were two locations introduced and the hospital would welcome more interesting plot points (let alone having people at the hospital because of a disease). Plus, they already used Titty Typhoon for a cute moment. I didn't want to be right, but I really enjoyed seeing her character unfold.

Mikan was also the mark other favorite characters dying (Gundam and Nagito).

This game did a really good job at explaining odd things about characters in realistic (or at least somewhat realistic) ways. What with Gundam's hair losing pigment and wearing a contact in one eye, and Souda carving his teeth to look sharp.

Probably the only alive legit love interest of Hajime at this point.

Yeah (since no more Chiaki T_T).

[S] 
Check the Danganronpa 3: Despair Arc cast again :)

I mean after Danganronpa 2.

This is probably weirdly short for most of these posts but I have one question what can we tell about the ultra despairs in the real world from her. Are they insane like she was during the trial OR are they able to hide they're insanity and Mikan was just point to a breaking point, if so compared to how Mikan attacked in her insanity how do you think the other characters are? I await your therories.

Im a bit late to respond, and i'm sure that someone has already pointed this out, but in Mikan's class trial, she actually half admits it was her towards the beginning. She says something a long the lines of "gee the killer worked fast for someone so clumsy and slow like me".

Once she said that, it stuck out to me like mad, and she was my suspect for the rest of the trial.

She got on my nerves tbh. Her story is kinda sad tho

Fuck mikan she killed my two favorite charachters ibuki and hiyoko Why did akane and souda survive there charachters where just eating and sonia How Danganronpa 2 should have ended hajime Sonia Fuhjihko (sorry bad spelling) hiyoko and maybe ghundam

Character Discussion #32 - Sakura Ogami (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Fighter

Game: Trigger Happy Havoc, Sakura's Revenge

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Guards the bodies, along with Mondo Owada or Aoi Asahina usually

A voice of reason in early chapters, quick to befriend Hina

Revealed to be the traitor in Chapter 4, leading to distrust amongst the group

Seeks to make amends, help the group, and commit suicide

Circumstances of death messed with by Hina to mislead it to seem like a murder, due to a fake note left by Monokuma

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Fighter, Sakura Ogami!

[S]My absolute favorite character in the series. She's amongst the kindest, nicest of the students despite her overwhelming strength. She doesn't do much in the first few chapters, but what she does says a lot about who she is.

In Ch 1, she is (iirc) one of the few (or maybe even the only one) who openly tells you what her DVD showed. She feels no need to hide it. She also stays in Hina's room for the night, who to her is a complete stranger, just so she'd feel more comfortable.

In Ch 3, she stops Toko from questioning everyone about their financial status, saying such inquiries are unsightly.

In the same Chapter, she takes it upon herself to stop the conflict between Kiyondo and Hifumi using her strength as a deterrent, not a threat (doesn't outright grab / attack them, just states she will get involved if they continue), defusing the situation through words despite her strength.

And then her ultimate sacrifice, where she commits suicide to help the group and break open the door leading to the principal's office to lead them to more clues, not taking another life as was meant by Monokuma, but taking her own.

She doesn't have too much of a presence until her relevant chapter, and her design is completely different from your usual "anime" girl, but she'll always retain the number one spot in my heart.

Sakura best Danganronpa waifu

While there is a lot to her character, what I want to point out is that her design is totally sick. A non-pretty female character is VERY welcome to me. I hope we get a lot more of those in the future.

[S]She may have a non-standard design, but I don't think that means she can't be pretty, or at the very least elegant looking.

I mean, just look at this

...then let's go with non-standard.

Sakura is very pretty! But yes I hope we get more like her too.

She was pretty cute before she got buffed ;)

And she's just as cute now!

Sakura is definitely one of the fandom's favourite DR1 characters, she's among the top of the list for me, for good reason. Definitely the most selfless, strongest and bravest student from the first game, hell, the entire series maybe, yet she isn't a beacon of perfection either. I've seen someone describe Sakura as 'a superhuman who comes to show her overwhelming humanity', and I think that's the perfect way to describe her character.

Sakura definitely is mostly background for the first half of the game, where the most we see of her outside Free Time events is as the supportive friend towards Asahina, a helpful ally towards everyone else trying to uphold the group's morale and integrity, and helps guard the crime scenes. Every interaction we see with her is short but definitely sweet, and you get the feeling from her immediately that Sakura is a student you can trust wholeheartedly, and someone who couldn't possibly become either a victim or a killer, due to her imposing physique and nature.

Then, Chapter 4 comes around, and Makoto sees a scene that very clearly indicates that Sakura was working with the mastermind, although he happens to see her renounce this deal and Monokuma's subsequent threat towards her. It's a harsh moment. Makoto's unwillingness to directly confront Sakura about that night the next day seems like a good idea at first, to not cause panic and distrust within the group, but it turns out to be a mistake. Kyoko immediately becomes cold towards him for not divulging anything to her and being hypocritical about his wanting her to be less secretive, and more importantly, Monokuma reveals her 'betrayal' as his mole to the group not too long after as the next motive for murder.

The group's already-unstable peace rapidly begins to disintegrate, as Byakuya, Toko and Yasuhiro immediately paint Sakura as a willing mole for Monokuma, and are distrustful of anything she says or does, whilst Asahina tries to fight her corner, saying Sakura must have been forced to act as a mole against her will, and gets into huge fights with both Byakuya and Toko over it. Makoto and Kyoko are sympathetic towards her but keep their distance. Nothing seems to be able to restore the peace, and a murder seems inevitable.

However, Sakura is able to find and exploit a loophole in Monokuma's orders and desires and decides to commit a murder. The victim, as we all know, is herself. Killing herself means that Monokuma's demands to kill someone in exchange for saving the Ogami Clan's dojo are fulfilled, whilst no one else in the group can be killed or executed. Even though Asahina tries to stop her, and ends up initially misunderstanding her reasons for suicide, and as Yasuhiro and Toko both misunderstand her request to meet them and explain her motives and intentions and severely attack her, she still believes in the group, and goes through with her suicide anyways.

It was an incredibly altruistic act, and Sakura deserves the in memoriam treatment she receives from the survivors for helping them to realise that fighting each other would only hurt them in the long run, and that the only way to defeat the mastermind's despair is to work together against them and to keep their hope intact. It may have taken a painful sacrifice, but for Sakura it was worth it to help those she considered her first ever friends. Even beyond death, she still managed to help the survivors be able to beat Junko by breaking the lock to the headmaster's office, allowing Kyoko to sneak in and find vital information towards obtaining their freedom.

It's a simple character arc in comparison to other characters, but it works wonderfully. Sakura is faced with the despair of having to betray innocent people in order to save her family (who are most likely already dead), and at first suffers from not being able to truly become friends with everyone else, already difficult due to her physique, interests and her lonely past and profession already othering her socially, but made worse with the guilt of being a mole. Asahina's close friendship clearly inspires Sakura to break past this, and decides to not allow herself to lose her honour by silently accepting the masterminds' demands, and creates the hope that will both redeem her for her sins and save her classmates. Sakura doesn't let the mastermind reduce her solely to her talent as a physical, inhuman force only used to hurt others. Sweet and simple, and aligns with the game's themes of finding hope in despair, not letting yourself be defined solely by one talent, and learning to trust others.

Her Free Time scenes help to expand on her character from what we see in the main story. Sakura was a girl born into a family renowned for their physical prowess and martial arts skills, and in a world that saw it impossible for a woman to become the strongest person, she resolved to beat those impressions and prove herself worthy of the title 'World's Strongest'. She however, struggles with aligning her womanhood and inherent feminine nature with the masculine-coded talent she has, and is another character, alongside Chihiro, who battles with gender roles and society's expectations that men are strong and women are weak.

Makoto helps her to understand that the two don't have to be separate, that you can be a woman and traditionally feminine, whilst also being physically powerful and being interested in her talent. It helps Sakura remember that her rival and lover from her past, Kenshiro, always respected her female traits and her strength, and tried to make her see that she didn't have to choose between the two dichotomies of male/female and strength/weakness. Kenshiro trusted her to defend his title as World's Strongest whilst he was ill and even wanted her to surpass and beat him. Her backstory ties into what I'd call the overarching theme of the series: dichotomies are shit and restrictive, and nothing is purely black and white.

I love her character and backstory a lot, and I also really appreciate her design, which is completely unique, and serves to distinguish her from every other female character, who generally have the same anime face and body type. It'd be nice for future female characters to follow Sakura's example. I honestly expected a lot of awful jokes about her appearance and gender-defying traits, as is usually the case for anime, and aside from one insensitive comment from Ishimaru (where the joke was clearly on him), the game utterly surprised me with how respectfully it treated Sakura's character, and her friendship with Asahina. Major props for this.

Sakura Ogami is a girl who manages to show her innate, simple humanity despite the world forcing their expectations of superhuman strength, lack of emotions and abnormality on her constantly (Yasuhiro always using her online nickname of 'Ogre' when talking about her is symbolic of this). I'm glad she serves as the martyr role and inspiration for the DR1 group's trust, and that she is clearly remembered by them, as seen with the Funhouse statue of her in DR2. I hope Asahina still keeps her memory alive in DR3. Their characters, relationship and parallels with each other is definitely a highlight of the series for me.

Oh since this is a Sakura post, here's a Sakura gif I made from her happy sprite.

Sakura is the fucking best.

When I first saw her, I said "who the hell is THAT?"

She ends up being the moral glue of the group. After her suicide, her dearest wish is fulfilled: it's the catalyst for bringing the group together. No more killing. No more fighting. I think it even got through to Genocider.

Would play a game of Hina and Sakura just kicking it.

No words can describe my love for Sakura. I won't go in-depth on why since I'd just be regurgitating what others have already said, but she's probably one of the most genuine and interesting characters in Danganronpa. She's strong in body, mind and spirit, and she just wants whats best for everyone.

There's a lot of characters in DR that didn't deserve it, but Sakura takes the cake. Even if her death was on her own terms, the fact that the only way to help the group and bring peace was for her to be gone just saddens me. When i was playing the game and Sakura was revealed to be the spy, all I wanted to do was talk to her about it. I wanted to explain to everyone that she was trustworthy, and that she was probably the one that wanted Monokuma defeated the most. Her death was the first to make me cry, and seeing the statue of her in the funhouse in the second game made me tear up as well. I'm glad the devs thought she needed a memorial, even if it almost seemed like an insult with the statue being labelled Ogre.

From what I understand, "Ogre" is actually her fighter name. However, why her friends decided to address her statue as that instead of her normal name I'm not sure...

Oh yeah, i think that's right! It totally slipped my mind tbh. But yeah, by the end of case 4 with Hagakure calling her that, even in death, just sort of added a derogatory context to it i guess? And yeah, I was surprised there wasn't at least a little subtitle on the statue with her actual name. It makes her seem like she's a mindless goon or something when she's anything but.

Sakura is another one of those characters that I feel is one you like as a person and respect the message for, but as far as characters go, I've kind of seen her before. Doesn't downplay her kindness or her role in the plot though.

Sakura feels less like a character and more like a force of nature or a tool in the first three chapters (no surprise in that choice of words since Peko's character comes partially from Sakura). She responds to a lot of comments saying how we shouldn't play into the mastermind's hands, among other things. It comes up mostly in chapter 3, but the game brings her around as a safety device for other characters because the game is just that confident you wouldn't see her as a victim. It's even a nice sigh of relief in the first investigation when you talk to Sakura and she tells you that she neither assumes you are or are not the culprit. Even if she doesn't contribute a huge amount to the class trials, the kind, objective character is always a welcome member of the group.

It's not really until chapter 4 that she really felt like she became a "character" as far as the main story is concerned, I felt. We of course have the traitor reveal and play again at the trust angle. There's a throwaway situation in the first trial where Sakura stayed with Hina the night of Sayaka's murder. The main purpose of that scene is to rule Asahina out as the culprit since her testimony covers for her. But as the traitor ordered to kill, it's always interesting to realize that Hina may be the first victim, but Sakura seemed to be moved by that night together. She tells you about the DVD. She stops Toko from being took half the game

We see she has fears, insecurities and anxieties and it's when we see more of Sakura beyond generic rational person and protective plot device like we've seen in the first three chapters.

Beyond the suicide though, I dunno. We've seen the woman in the man's world, and Sakura is most definitely a breath of fresh air when a lot of the other cast surviving that late in the game is mostly scummy pieces of shit, but it still wouldn't propel her quite as high for me overall, but she's still one of the best characters DR 1 had to offer.

She's the perfect woman. That's all I have to say.

I love Sakura. She's one of my all time favorite DR characters. Her death was the biggest blow to me in the first DR game. I really wish she was still around so we could see her in the new stuff.

Sakura and hiyoko are my favorite charachters

Favorite character. GF just beat the game and she wholeheartedly agrees. Sakura is the kindest, bravest, and unwavering character in any of the games. Talking to her just makes you feel safe.

I actually had a lot of stuff to say about her but the charger of my laptop broke so I can't access anything. I guess I just have to hope my new charger arrives before next week.

Character Discussion #33 - Monaca (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Homeroom

Appearances: Ultra Despair Girls, Danganronpa 3: Future Arc

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Wished to revive Junko through Komaru Naegi

Emotionally manipulative of both Kotoko Utsugi and Nagisa Shingetsu

Defeated by Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa, then rescued by Nagito Komaeda to become the next Junko

Kills Miaya Gekkogahara and takes her place in the Future Foundation meeting to watch the Final Killing Game

No longer interested in hope or despair and leaves Earth to become a Space NEET

Discuss anything pertaining the Li'l Ultimate Homeroom, Monaca Towa!

Monaca becoming a space NEET was an interesting development for a character who everyone expected to become Junko 2.0 and be the mastermind of the future arc

It was a nice red herring and I think it concluded her character arc in a neat, funny and very DR like way. I don't have that many complaints about it

SPACE!

From what I can gather, it seems like I have a pretty unpopular opinion, since Monaca is probably one of my favourite characters, and DEFINITELY my favourite DR villain (I still love Junko though).

Let's first start off with her personality. On the surface, she's your typical primary school kid: pretty cheery and bright most of the times, but whines and demands things go her way if they don't. However, this is then masterfully contrasted with her villain side of things: a deeply manipulative and controlling person, with a plan to follow her 'Big Sis Junko''s footsteps that easily overshadow any of Junko's plans.

My favourite thing about her, however, must be the fact that despite all the terrible things she does, she's still a kid, and SHE KNOWS IT, and takes full advantage of the fact that the adults see her as 'inferior' just because she's a kid to manipulate them. I've seen a fair few child villains on media before, but not many of them are done too well. Monaca, on the other hand, is definitely one of the best examples of a child villain done well.

This is even further accentuated by her motive in doing all this. Unlike Junko, who does all this for the sake of feeling the 'despair', Monaca does all this just for the sake of completing the work of her 'Big Sis', which, if you think about it, is pretty childish. This is also why she was turned away pretty quickly despair by Komaeda, since she never was truly invested in despair: she just was because Junko was, which I think adds an interesting depth to her character.

And to those who say that Monaca is not as smart or as threatening as Junko... you probably haven't fully understood the story of UDG. Monaca's plan in UDG is so complex, so intricate, yet with very little variance possible (one of them being Toko, and can you really blame Monaca for not seeing Toko's development arc in UDG coming?), that it would take an entire post to fully explain it. Suffice to say, it's definitely better than any of Junko's plans that we've seen (except maybe her plan in DR0), and Junko has a pretty overpowered talent to help her.

So, yeah, Monaca is an amazing villain, and her appearance in UDG really cemented her as one of my favourite characters. Now, I know that most of you probably expect me to be like "EXCEPT DR3 RUINED EVERYTHING ABOUT HER", but surprisingly, I don't feel that strongly. I mean, was the whole 'Space NEET' conclusion to her arc disappointing and anti-climatic? Yes, it was. But, I think that it still is a fitting end to Monaca's character in a weird way. Unlike most of the villains we see in video games, Monaca isn't a 'fully developed' one. She's still a kid, and as a kid, she's still learning about the world around her. So it only makes sense that she finally learnt enough and truly 'matured' from meeting with Komaeda to break free from despair and lead her own life, instead of chasing the shadows of Junko.

Was it still disappointing? Yes. Was it however fitting to her character? I believe so, and Monaca will forever remain one of my favourite DR characters because of it. Unless I love literally every character in DRV3

Monaca's plan in UDG is so complex, so intricate, yet with very little variance possible...

It's interesting that you bring this up because I think that's also a highlight as to why Junko and Monaca are fundamentally different. Despite Junko's plans being heavily weighted in her favor, she still left open the possibility of losing, which makes sense. She loves despair, whether she's inflicting it on others or feeling it herself. Monaca wanted things to go her way and only her way, and when they didn't, she very quickly lost motivation.

Yeah so many people are focused on her anti-clamatic ending that they aren't paying attention to what it means. It's very unique character development that everyone should be analyzing, not complaining about.

[S]It is certainly unique, unexpected and quite interesting, but that doesn't mean everyone will like it, which is fine! People have opinions!

But as much as you enjoy her ending and the analysis you can pull from it, there are gonna be people who'll complain cause it wasn't what they wanted out of the ending.

I agree with most of this, but I think you sort of missed one crucial aspect of the whole Monaca plot, that being that the entire Towa City situation was a plan of Junko's. Remember, Junko was technically there the entire time pulling the strings of both sides of the kid-versus-adult conflict, not to mention she set the Warriors of Hope into motion in the first place.

That's not to say it devalues anything of Monaca as a character, because I don't think she was ever fully aware of any of this, but that's a big detail, I think.

Monaca is one of my favourite characters from the series overall, for being a surprisingly multi-layered character, an interesting spin on the child villain archetype, and for being a wonderfully contrasting sequel villain to Junko. She doesn't steal the crown for me personally, but she is a worthy successor, and in some ways is more interesting a villain than Junko.

On the surface, Monaca has a lot of similarities to her idol, where they both like to have a persona of appearing not as dangerous as they actually are, Junko as the famous, marketable fashionista whose a lil' ditzy/quick-to-anger, and Monaca as the charming, popular girl of the class who loves to make friends with everyone and support them all the way. Part of Monaca's facade includes childish personality tics – speaking in third person, meowing, using the Demon Hunting terminology consistently – and trying to appear pitiable and weak via the wheelchair, similar to Junko's personas schtick. Both of their talents are charismatic in nature, which serves to highlight their manipulative tendencies as villains.

However, the main point of Monaca's character is clearly to show that, despite how much she wants to continue Junko's legacy and by the end of DR:AE decides to become the Successor herself, that Monaca is fundamentally different from Junko, and doesn't really understand or believe in Junko's despair philosophy as much as her facade suggests. Monaca creates plans with the intent of not failing, unlike Junko who deliberately puts holes in her plans to experience the possible despair of losing, Monaca throws tantrums and gets upset/gives up entirely when she loses, unlike Junko who takes pleasure from that. Before DR3 I would've argued that Monaca's use of brainwashing to have the children's army for her plan was a huge difference from Junko's use of natural charisma and manipulation to lure people willingly to her cause, and shows that Monaca just isn't as good at the whole villain thing as Junko, but DR3 torpedo'd that point... in DR:AE that was most definitely the intention, at any rate.

Monaca just doesn't experience despair like Junko does... she experiences it just like normal, everyday people do. The ending of DR:AE, once everyone abandons/ignores her and she's left to die, has her realise this is what despair truly is, and instead of enjoying it, Monaca just pitiably laughs and lays down to die. DR3's climax for her, where she decides to give up entirely on the hope vs despair conflict, realising that pursuing despair leads to a life of endless misery and loss and that she DOESN'T actually want that, is basically the same thing. Monaca may have loved Junko, but at the end of the day she realises that trying to replace her is impossible, as she's not the same person at all.

I also really enjoyed the whole 'children vs adults' theme that was present in DR:AE, and how it tied into not only with the series' overall themes, but related to Monaca's character and status as villain as well. She and Haiji are obviously foils to each other, for one, and serve to represent the two 'sides' that Komaru has to choose between in the climax, and ends up rejecting both, due to the whole 'dichotomies are shit, the answer is never black and white' theme running through the whole series. But it also relates to Monaca's motive to create Junko's successor in that it's such a childish mindset.

Junko was the only person in Monaca's life who showed her any sort of affection, since her family either abandoned her, or hated her, and she was emotionally abused daily at home (and occasionally physically abused). Even though deep down Monaca knew Junko only cared for her as a means to use her robotics genius for the Tragedy, Monaca didn't care, and happily helped out Junko with her plans if it meant being loved and appreciated in return. At the heart of it, despite all her horrific acts, that's a very child-like thing to do, right? So when Junko dies, Monaca's entire reason for living basically disappears.

AI Junko via Kurokuma may have planted the idea of a successor in her head, but in Monaca's mind it's a way to get her big sis back, and VERY SPECIFICALLY chooses to mold Komaru into becoming Junko's successor. That's for a big reason – Monaca doesn't want to BECOME Junko (and that's partly why she gives up on this by DR3), I'd say she actually just wanted her big sister back who would love and appreciate her again, and hence tried to make someone else take on that role initially. Again, that's the mindset of a child. This is why I think Monaca is a good example of a child villain – because at the root of her plans and motives, is a child's way of viewing the world. And that's why the end of her arc – where she accepts that she needs to grow up and become an 'adult', from the ideas of a Successor and the childish battle that is hope vs despair really, fits so well.

It relates to the binary children vs adults theme of DR:AE, it relates to themes of DR in general about not pigeonholing yourself as one role/talent, breaking down black and white thinking and growing up in general, it just shows a very well-written arc both character-wise and narrative-wise, which is impressive.

DR3's ending for her (and DR:AE in general) may have been abrupt and rushed, and possibly as a result of DR:AE not being so well-received among DR fans, but I felt it actually fit her character well, and continued to build on what we saw in DR:AE. Monaca probably had the best ending out of anyone in DR3, really. And it was done in the most hilarious way possible, so points for that. Plus, it was a more interesting angle to take than to just make her the Junko 2.0 mastermind of the Final Killing Game, as everyone basically expected, so that was a nice surprise. I'll take the fandom Space NEET simplification over the Pickle Satan/Junko 2.0 simplification anyday, since it's more in line with Monaca's actual character, so DR3 did a good there, haha. Hope she's enjoying floating around in zero gravity in that physics-defying truck.

Minor point: I loved how DR:AE over the course of the game gradually breaks down Monaca's charming persona to reveal the unsettling, terrifying monster underneath, via her treatment of the other Warriors of Hope, her diary entries, some excellent sprites and the reveal of her Junko shrine bedroom, which genuinely unsettled me the first time I played through the game. Really well set-up IMO, such a great villain.

Monaca in UDG was amazing. What else can I say? A hate-able, insane villain that was complex and, most importantly, WASN'T JUNKO (albeit kinda similar).

Monaca in DR3 was... meh. Her character development was technically in-character, but it still felt really lazy and just... wasn't satisfying.

Overall, Monaca is still an amazing character -- it's just the conclusion she got seemed forced and stupid.

I think Monaca's DR3 development comes off as more clever if you see her behavior as a direct response to Nagito rather than just a development she had on her own. Since he was all about hope and despair and pushing things to their max potential, she decides to do the one thing that would disappoint him the most by choosing to do nothing. It's almost cute to view her becoming a space NEET as being like teenage rebellion against a pushy guardian.

It's a disappointing development and that's exactly the point, her choice in making it that way makes it a decent end.

I like how she doesn't use any brainwashing video to obtain her position.

[S]Shots fired at Junko :(

Just brainwashing helmets for the kids

[S]Ah, a return to form.

I don't have any strong feelings towards Monaca in general, but I felt her character arc ended unsatisfactorily. Even if people mention it is in character due to her being a child and the flip floppity nature, but that doesn't make me like it anymore.

I will be forever salty about her role in DR3. The Ultra Despair Girls episode was such a waste of time and she just got removed from the story so lazily.

I really hoped she'd return or something but all we got from her was a 5 second scene of her being brainwashed in space. I want to hope she'll appear in DR2.5 but there no way it'll work with the time it takes place.

That's exactly my point of view, DR3 had limited episodes as it is and they spent an episode to wrap up Monaca's character arc, and it fucking blew.

It's not even a very satisfying conclusion to Komaru, Fukawa, and the Warriors of Hope's arcs either, they were there just for the sake of wrapping up loose ends and fanservice for DRAE fans.

Honestly, I find this logic a little backwards. The UDG episode is probably the only episode of the entirety of DR3 that actually has some real, genuine focus to it. It doesn't dance around difference characters to avoid actually dealing with the time limit or jump around scenes in order to avoid answering questions like "Wait, how did they go from X to Y between scenes?" and such.

It's paced well and you get a real chapter there. It does what it sets out to do in one episode, whereas other episodes often dragged things out through cliffhangers and jumping to other parts of the cast over and over again. In the overall grand scheme of things, maybe it doesn't seem like much, but taking it as it is, it was a very well done episode compared to other ones.

If you ask me, rather than getting upset at UDG, I would say the finger should be pointed at whoever decided to limit episodes in the way they were in the first place, because the problem isn't that UDG got more time than necessary, but that they put themselves in a situation where they had these restraints in the first place.

The UDG 'arc' should've been a 5 minute scene. Nothing important happened with Komaru and Toko or the Warriors of Hope, Towa City is still in the shit and we didn't even see Haiji. The only person that did something was Monaca and it was retarded.

Are you secretly me in disguise?

That's exactly how I feel lmao, now I feel silly having just written a comment about it.

Just, cut down on the UDG episode so we can actually develop the already underdeveloped cast of Future Arc.

If anything, you could argue they made it that length specifically because they never intended to develop that cast from the start, and their only purpose was to keep dragging out time until it was time for the conclusion with Naegi and Munakata.

Exactly my thoughts. I like UDG and would like a conclusion, but Future arc would've only benefited from replacing the UDG episode with something related to the Future Foundation cast, maybe so the Despair Arc didn't have to focus on them.

Maybe something relating to the Hajime cliffhanger on the prior episode? Another thing I'm salty about, who the hell thought a 6 episode cliff hanger was a good idea.

Speaking technically, Despair 6 was episode 12 of DR3 overall, and traditionally, that's when an anime's "season" normally ends. To me, it feels more like the UDG episode was more akin to the first episode of DR3 Part 2.

Well that's it's because all we got was the OVA of Komaru and Toko's arcs pretty much. Their arcs were concluded in AE. Same with Warriors of Hope. Although I just wanna say, and speculation warning, the Monaca arc was left open more on purpose to be expanded on in DR2.5 episode or V3 maybe?

I remember when designs for these kids were first released, and everyone was oogling over them, I said to myself, "There is something off about the wheelchair kid, I bet she's evil." Glad I was right.

EDIT: aaaaaand someone on tumblr browsed through my reddit history and called me ableist because of this. thanks tumblr.

I actually think she's a more threatening villain than Junko (especially after the bit of villain decay Junko has from DR3). However, her biggest strength and biggest weakness are one in the same: She's not Junko.

Monaca desperately wants to be like Junko, following her words until she matures enough to realize, and gets a demonstration by Nagito, of how dumb it all is. She even wants to bring Junko back in some way, even if she has to kill her own hometown to do it. But she doesn't have Junko's people skills, nor does she have the wealth of support Enoshima had. Plus, her luck's not nearly as good as Junko's, just about every character ends up hating her by the end of UDG and almost all her advisers are working toward different goals than her.

Still, Monaca is very skilled. She brought Monokuma to life with the Towa group's technology, she nearly exterminated a city (only failing because she wanted someone else to deal the finishing blow), and she turns a small team of children into instruments of slaughter without resorting to the brain washing Junko used on her team. All this within a week, and she's not even out of grade school. This persists in DR3, she probably would've defeated Komaru and Toko had she decided not to stop where she did. She actually does what Junko thought was pointless, using normal people to turn the tide against the talented (Junko may have beaten Juzo, but UDG has a whole list of people Monaca had on the ropes, plus Toko and Togami were under her thumb for most of the game). If she had stayed the course, it's likely Monaca would've been more of a thorn in the Future Foundation's side than Junko ever was.

However, as I mentioned, she's not Junko. Junko had ambition, she had people skills (admittedly not as good as we originally thought, but still definitely there), she had the personnel management to make her objectives actually work. When Junko wants something done, she can get someone to do it for her, and not once has she been turned down. While Junko did use mind control, Monaca relies almost entirely on it to get her objectives done. She's not averse to manipulating people, as seen with her wheelchair fakeout, but it's pretty unlikely Monaca could get a student council to murder each other.

And let's not forget the biggest thing: she gave up. Junko kept making plans and fighting on until the last breathe, only giving in when she had lost beyond any doubt. Monaca turns away when she's at the peak of her power, about to eliminate her biggest enemy, and decides to just go live in space when she could realistically have the world at her fingertips. What's confusing is that from her words, it sounds like she gave up already, but she still bothered to pretend she was going to resurrect Despair.

However, it's worth noting that she doesn't seem to be bad a person as Junko either. Selfish, yes, but where Junko throws away thousands of people's lives for entertainment, Monaca doesn't throw away assets unless her plan requires it. Her own team turns out to be safe and sound in the end despite their failures and apparent executions, and while she did poke at their sore spots pretty hard, she didn't actively degrade them. They certainly got a better deal than Mukuro ever did. Then after she stops needing the mind controlled kids, she apparently lets them go and switches to purely robot labor (they were there during the final sequence for UDG, but gone by DR3).

Then for the actual plans: While Junko loads the deck in her favor, feeding information to the students piecemeal and then dropping a plot dump that exaggerates her own ability at the end, Monaca allows Komaru to have a fighting chance from the start by putting a weapon in her hands and giving her the initiative (granted, that might've just been Nagito, but the whole "make her despair" thing wouldn't have worked very well if Komaru had died before even meeting Masaru). She even let's her underlings explain what's supposed to be going on, even when it risks them finding out the truth or Komaru leaving and throwing her plan to the gutter.

Some might say that's just poor planning, but in the end, Monaca is alive and a majority of what happened to her she decided for herself, while Junko is dead and every plan she's put in place has been snuffed out. What's more, Monaca actually seems content with her lot in life, where Junko could only take joy in her own misery even to her last breath.

Also known as:

-Pickle Satan

-Monaca Towel

-NEETINSPACE

heyniceflair

Monaca is easily one of my favourite characters and I enjoyed her from the moment she showed up in UDG. I love how they designed her as someone people would have no choice but to hate, but that just made me enjoy her even more. As well, Cristina Vee is absolutely perfect in the role, and I legitimately can't imagine anybody else voicing her.

Not a fan of Monaca, but as I'm not a terribly large fan of Junko either it sort of extends. I'll give credit to them actually giving Monaca a backstory, though I felt she was just comically over the top evil in Another Episode, and then a pointless waste of screentime in DR3, only showing up so they can wrap up loose ends with her.

The Ultra Despair girls episode doesn't even give a satisfying conclusion to any of the characters involved, so it just makes it worse a whole episode was dedicated on it.

Also super salty she killed Gekkogahara and that Gekkogahara didn't even get to say a line and was just an excuse to shoehorn in Usami and Monaca

I've already gone on about her character in other threads, but cam I just say I love her design? Green hair is notably tricky to pull off for some reason (though it works better with guys), but something about how pale and disturbed she looks makes it all fit.

(Also her nazi eyes, which I bet they're regretting doing for a joke now that we have actual nazi Ouma).

[S] 
I really enjoy the skeletal design on her back, it's too bad she's in a wheelchair 99% of the time and then DR3 went away with the whole thing in favor of the Monokuma cloak.

Nazi eyes? That's an ancient Buddhist sign, the Nazi sign created a whole different meaning by moving one of the arms out of position!

I hate her guts but honestly that is what makes her great of a character. You're meant to hate her living guts.

When she came back in Danganronpa 3 you remember your hatred for the little ass but then you get surprised at her conclusion. Some people hate her conclusion I was just thoroughly surprised at how easily she gave up.

When you think about it she actually helped Makoto a lot in Danganronpa 3 and even gave a hint to Makoto about someone close to him dying.

The development of hers maybe weird which causes people to hate her but I think that is very fitting of her character. She was just a silly child who was in love with her " older sister" Junko and she completely tried to replicate her despair which is just like a child replicating an idol of theirs when they are young.

However, once she was saved by Nagito she gained a broader vision and not a single mindset before which is like a child growing up and learning more. So while people may of hated what happened to her in DG3 I am perfectly fine with it as I feel it is quite fitting in her character. Danganronpa 3 was about redemption (Munakata, Juzo and Mitarai) I feel like this was Monaca's redemption

I like her because of just how much she surprised me. Don't get me wrong, I wasn't expecting her to be nice. I went into DR:AE knowing about the "Pickle Satan" memes. I knew she was gonna be absolutely evil. Even STILL, I was surprised by just how ruthless she was. Something about her is both endearing and scary, much like Junko. She comes off as incredibly similar to Junko, but at the same time, NOT Junko. That's something that's very hard to do with characters.

All in all, Monaca is one of my favorite DR characters. Very enjoyable. I just wish she got more retribution in DR3, because as much as I love the little demon, I wanted to see her suffer more than "lol bye."

Fuck Pickle Satan. That is all.

She was never going to live up to the high standards people had for Junko, since not even Junko herself could've lived up to them as shown by DR3. DR in general is not capable of having a complex character. It's great at taking a great design and do the barebones and letting the reader's imagination do the rest, but this doesn't really work for villains because a villain has to do actually show that they can credibly do the nasty stuff they talk about, which was always Junko's biggest weakness.

Compared to that, Monaca was never meant to be the one who destroyed everything. I'd call Monaca as a local warlord version of Junko, someone who is extremely talented and can easily occupy a significant stretch of territory in the DR world setting and then live out whatever fantasies they have on the unsuspecting victims. Since Monaca didn't have the baggage of implausibly destroying the world she ended up being a competent villain, since it's not hard to clear the 'local warlord' bar given DR is a world where a dozen high school students can destroy the world.

I'm actually not sure how Monaca is supposed to be manipulative toward the other Warriors of Hope. What she did is certainly shocking, but I don't see how it flows to the intended effect. She easily could've pushed the others too far and made them turn on her and she didn't have Junko's 'I can calculate everything' power to fall back on. Well, at least she did try.

I really liked Monaca in UDG. She was genius villain, that was very intresting. I remember when I first though that she is good character, but on the wrong side.
I hate Monaca in DR3. They took everything that I liked in UDG Monaca. Instead of intresting villain, we got random moeblob, which doesn't reminds me of previous Monaca.

Personally, I really liked her. She was solid in the game she premiered in and she made for a fun red herring in DR3, providing it with what is more or less its only instance of the charm this series is actually known for. The UDG episode is the best of DR3 by far, in no small thanks to her additions to it, and it wouldn't be the same without her.

Haters gonna hate.

[S] 
I do recall that Future Arc was supposed to have a much more serious tone in comparison to series standard, and it shows. Monaca's scenes pulled me back into the same atmosphere the games had.

Though saying haters gonna hate make it sound like they're hating with no basis, there are many valid reasons both for and against Monaca's involvement in DR3 and the UDG episode!

Ah, Monaca. A primary example of how things went wrong in the anime. It felt to me like they had a ton of ideas, started before thinking things through and then ended up with conclusions like "I'm becoming a NEET in space.". Yeah....

But this shouldn't be about DR3, but Monaca.

I think she made for an excellent villain in UDG. The moment she threw her first fit because of Komaru I began to hate her. The more I learned about her manipulative personality, the more I hated her. And some awe sneaked it's way into my judgement about her. Which, after her defeat was pretty much all that was left (no need to hate someone who's already on the ground). She was an evil genius, nothing less.

I'm a little torn about her portrayal in DR3. On the one hand I liked the "humor" in the fact that spending to much time with Nagito leaves even someone like Monaca an unmotivated person who eventually escapes earth itself. Also explaining it as her growing up and gaining a broader view is fine. Still, like I said at the beginning it also felt somewhat like cheap bait to first put her up as possible source of danger and then let it end in... nothing, really. A bad "end" for a great character. I'd liked it more if she actually had some impact, in whatever form, during the finale, but alas, she was left out completely.

I was not a huge fan of Monaca personally. She's a good villain I'll give her that but I thought she was just Junko except more evil.

Unti DR3 happened and my opinion reversed itself and I actually prefer Monaca to Junko because of a certain event..... which is relevant to my flair and made me enjoy Monaca more then Junko. I watched the events of UDG right before Monaca was shown in the anime which didn't really give me time to cement the idea of her becoming a great villain and feeling hype for it. At the very least it makes her disappointing end less disappointing for me.

monaca is a mage

She's gone from a black mage in ADG to a red mage in DR3.

As I'm currently watching playthrough for UDG, I don't know much about Monaca except for what I read and what I saw on DR3, but she seems to be a very interesting character. I was surprised by her ending in space and the gving up on despair, it was very fast in the episode and, because of this, lacks in importance in my opinion. But maybe I feel this way because I still don't know her in UDG and then didn't got the time to understand clearly the character. But this is also what is interesting : the end of this character was so strange for me, I'm glad I'm going to look at her past and see what happened with this ending in mind. I also find very interesting that someone who was a villain that wanted to walk in the path of Enoshima decide to chose nor hope nor despair. It's both a form of hiding from reality (very concrete with the whole leaving earth thing), and, at the same time, on a different level, something very rational : normal humans experience both hope and despair. Becoming a space NEET was a radical choice, but in the ravaged world Junko created, what else can you do if you think hopeVsDespair is pointless ? To conclude, I'm looking forward to learn more about her in UDG. Her appearance in DR3 was enigmatic and interesting enough to make her a character I want to learn more about.

I want a slice of life spinoff anime about her called Pickle Hitler: the Space NEET. Obviously that won't happen, so I just want an OVA about her in space.

Boring and uninteresting. Trying to be Junko is basically her whole character. I think I like Komaru panties more than Monaca whole character development.

I believe that they should have focused on Monaca's betrayal and dismantling of Nagisa a bit more. (There probably wasn't enough time with DR3's episode amount.) Seriously, not even Junko manipulated other characters that much. It was intriguing to watch. And I think it's the first time writers have ever trashed a ship (Nagisa x Monaca) by making it canon. (Or as close as you can get for 10 year olds)

Although I did find it great that Nagito made Monaca bored of hope and despair. It was a great twist.

At a risk of sounding redundant I just think that monaca wasn't a terribly interesting villain granted her plan and manipulation were interesting and giving her a backstory was nice but didn't help her become more interesting. it was also disappointing how she got no resolution by the end and her DR3 inclusion felt like fanservice and nothing else

Don't have too much to say on Monaca. Some later posts I have will be longer. I shared my thought on Junko and how she works as a villain here and more of the bigger discussion of what you'd expect out of a villain. (Note: this was written before the release of DR3, so please keep that in mind as you read)

I was never too much of a fan of Monaca and never really praised her for being superior to Junko mostly because the spinoff game just feels like each of the kids are copy pastes of each other with a different type of abuse pasted in, and having that looped five times really got repetitive. It felt more like the shock value of having an abuse character without exploring much more beyond "the abuse existed." Having motives for villains can generally work, but it's usually not always the case. If Danganronpa was a little more grounded, I'd definitely agree Monaca is a fine villain, but I do think it's a stretch to give the main villain to have unexplored child abuse and dependency on Junko drive forward the narrative. If DR:AE didn't have so many kind of scenes that I felt were mostly child abuse shock value, I think I could appreciate her more.

As for her in DR3, I don't mind her showing up in itself, but I felt the really anticlimactic finish made it feel like a waste of both Monaca and Miaya since they both got thrown out and robbed of any opportunity for anything for the sake of a red herring and a joke ending with Monaca launching off to space. I can't imagine anyone would think she'd play that deeply into things if they introduced her so early. Pretty much everyone assumed she was a red herring the moment she showed up.

Character Discussion #34 - Mahiru Koizumi (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Photographer

Appearances: Danganronpa 2 Goodbye Despair, Danganronpa 3: Despair Arc, Hope Arc

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Critical of Hajime Hinata and Nagito Komaeda during their introductions, and Byakuya Togami for assuming a leadership role, vouching for Sonia Nevermind

Took pictures during Byakuya Togami's party that would later be used for evidence

First Rebuttal Showdown in the game

Takes care of Nagito after his capture by Kazuichi Souda and Nekomaru Nidai

Confronted with the Twilight Syndrome Murder Case photos sent by Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu, and lured to the Beach House where she was then killed by Peko Pekoyama

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Photographer, Mahiru Koizumi!

She's a good character...period.

Honestly, you can usually bet you've got a good character when half the fanbase is against them and half is defending them.

[deleted]

Stalkers get blocked. Bye.

Stalker? Something happen here?

I have no idea what you're referring to. ;)

Mahiru is probably my favorite character in SDR2. She's the exact opposite of most of the characters. Head-strong, confident, no-nonsense, etc. Compared to most of the class who are living in their own world, she's very distinct in that sense. Which is strange because she's supposed to be designed as a regular girl and to NOT stand out with the cast. While we don't learn about her too much in the game, it's her FTE that truly shine. We learn why she has such high expectations of men and why she's so critical them. We also see a more vulnerable side to her character. Insecurity in her talent compared to others, as well as not thinking she's as good as her mom.

One of my favorite things about Mahiru is how she documents the trip. We learn in her free time events that she loves to capture moments of happiness. She loves to see people smile, in stark contrast to her mother who was a war photographer. Mahiru chooses not to document the horros of humanity, but the beauty of it. And she's able to do that with her camera and I love her for it.

Her friendship with Hiyoko (and possibly Sato) is also a key part in understanding her character. Mahiru is able to bring out the best in people, no matter who they are. She gives off the "big sister" vibe of the group. While she is critical, she cares about her classmates. It just comes off in a "tsundere" way. (though I don't consider her tsundere.) While their friendship is mostly a driving force behind Hiyoko's character development, you can tell Mahiru is trying to set some sort of example for her. Atleast imo.

And then there's the Twilight Syndrome motive. We learn that Mahiru was being bullied by Natsumi, Fuyuhiko's little sister. And it wasn't any "normal" bullying behavior. This girl wanted Mahiru dead. And Mahiru was aware of it. But she doesn't want any conflict. So, she convinces Sato to ignore Natsumi. Unfortunately, it's evident that Sato is not mentally sane, and ends up killing Natsumi. While it's not expanded upon in the anime, Mahiru covers up her friend's crime because she is frightened. After all, she is just a teenager. She's confused and paranoid.

In the game, we see that Mahiru meets up with Fuyuhiko, not knowing Peko is with them. IIRC, Fuyuhiko contacts her about the pictures of his sister's corpse. (Or the other way around. The two plan to meet.) Mahiru wants the other girls to come with her for some sort of back-up, but Sonia's planned an all-girl's beach day. So, everyone declines except for Hiyoko. Unfortunately, Hiyoko was drugged. Anyways, I'm sure you don't need a summary of the case. So, Fuyuhiko and Mahiru start arguing about justice in Natsumi's murder at the Chandler Beach House. Mahiru knows what she did was wrong, even if she doesn't remember anything about it. But she argues with Fuyuhiko wouldn't get any justice from hurting her. Does this make her hypocritical? Yes. But I love her for it. Because she has layers. Because she's not perfect. Throughout all of this, Mahiru does not want to resort to violence. She fights with her words, one of her best (or worst) qualities.

There's also Island Mode with Mahiru which is probably the cutest thing in the game. Hajime and Mahiru make an interesting dynamic imo. She clearly likes him (as does literally everyone else), but she's too head-strong to admit it. It's also evident in her free time events. Hajime and Mahiru are one of my OTP's, if you couldn't tell. His reaction to her muder especially hit me hard. I literally cried when he went into Mahiru's cottage with Nanami.

Anyways, that's what I have to say about her. I rambled for quite a bit, but I hope I got my point across. Mahiru is a very interesting character that I completely adore. She's not perfect or charming or funny. She's just Mahiru.

Excellent analysis.

Thank you! :)

Mahiru is a character I'm not all too hot about, but she isn't incredibly popular to begin with, so I won't criticize quite as harshly. A lot of her character I feel is untapped potential.

She does have the fan title of the ultimate feminist, though she's not really a feminist. Mahiru has very traditional views about men and women, much like one of the characters she's heavily based on, Mondo. The brash but still good-at-heart person with traditional views that ends up being quite argumentative with the blonde heir (Byakuya/Fuyuhiko), stands up for the smaller character when under fire (Chihiro/Hiyoko), forms a sibling relationship with said character, and ends up dead in the second chapter and had a hand in someone's death.

That isn't to say that these characters are only one character. They're blends of multiple character, but Mondo is one such person Mahiru is based on, as she's very much a feminine answer to his character. Much like him, she has much of her mindset built around having to deal with her parents, though Mondo had an older brother as his father figure.

But my deal with Mahiru is mostly the wasted potential. When they show her death, Hajime points out that she was sort of a mom to the group…despite the fact that she excluded you from a girl's only event, generally snapped at you on a regular basis, and objected to most of the leadership ideas from the UI.

The scene that really only bugs me with Mahiru is the scene at the start of chapter 2 where Hiyoko starts crying and feels like everyone is ganging up on her. Mahiru steps in and tells everyone to stop when they make her feel bad about how she smells, but I find it a lot harder to see Mahiru as the kind of group support when she had no qualms with Hiyoko calling Mikan an ugly bitch just before that happened. I think having her as this kind of supportive character didn't really explore the idea of her calling Hiyoko out on her behavior, but doing so in a very gentle, nonconfrontational way that would have really made a strong contrast with Mahiru's general behavior toward you.

We kind of have a similar scene in DR 1 when Byakuya starts to break Chihiro's self-esteem and condescend to him. Mondo steps in to defend Chihiro, but inadvertently hurts his feelings in the process. But even then Mondo acknowledges that and apologizes to Chihiro right away when he realizes that. Mondo has the luxury of having one of the more innocent, agreeable characters to stand up for while I feel Mahiru's scene was sort of soured by the fact that she kind of plays favorites and in the case of her objecting to the UI as the group lead, she's pretty blatant about her biases without in any way addressing them, which makes me kind of not care for her.

I can't say I hate Mahiru as a character because of how short lived she is, but she's still a pretty middle of the road character to me.

As for her portrayal in DR 3, I mostly feel the only reason she was more tolerable was because they didn't focus on the majority of the DR 2 cast, so we really didn't have much time to explore them. That's a dynamic I'll be saving more for when we revisit Mikan for discussion though.

I think in all fairness, there are a couple things that would have caused Mahiru to come to Hiyoko's defense specifically. First off, instead of just being one person, it was a large portion of the group that was mentioning or making fun of how she smells, including men, which we know Mahiru has a developed aversion to. When it was Mikan, the only person attacking her was Hiyoko. Secondly (and admittedly lastly), Hiyoko is obviously far younger looking, smaller, and obviously sensitive to the comments, which Mahiru seems to focus on more than her being a bitch to Mikan. Did Takada intend this to be the reasoning? I dunno, maybe. That's just my two cents on the matter.

I'm not saying she had no reason at all to defend Hiyoko. Either way, it doesn't change the fact that Hiyoko would regularly target Mikan and call her names, and despite the fact that Mahiru calls everyone else out on it, she still turns a blind eye to Mikan being called a bitch.

She's pretty quick to defend the other girls, like Peko when Nekomaru and Kazuichi are bringing up the whole bathroom thing, so to me she really has a skewed sense of when to call people out if they're gonna go for the team mom angle. (which they call her in Hajime's monologue following her death)

Fair enough.

Clearly Mahiru has a bias against Mikan. How could my favourite girl possibly do this.

Fan cannon moment: Perhaps it's because she is diametrically opposed to Mikan's "personality" (I say it in quotes because we don't know how responsible she is for her behaviour due to her upbringing). She probably realizes that Mikan's not really that clumsy, and while she doesn't approve of the verbal abuse, she probably feels like she should be shamed out of doing so (but doesn't really want to slut shame). She doesn't really know Mikan at that point, so she mistakenly thinks that she is an attention whore (which she sorta is, but it's also not really her fault). She stays quiet because, while she dislikes the abuse, she feels that Mikan would benefit in the end (if she stopped exposing herself). I'm sure she rationalizes it as some abuse is bad now, but if it prevents her from being harassed/assaulted later, then it's worth it.

This might be silly, but when I played the game first I was honestly hoping she would make it until the end. She had a lot going on about her, she was like the detective MVP in the first case and then the game paid a lot of attention to her... until she died. Okay, she could've died, but killing her so early in the game is disappointing ;_;

SHE WAS A GOOD GIRL. And kind. And she wanted people to get along. And she wanted to reach the truth. But well, we're already used to the fact that good people die, huh? <looks at Virtue's Last Reward Japanese's title>

But yeah, I managed to get all Hope Fragments but one from her on the first run just because she caught my curiosity, she's a pretty interesting character not to mention I kinda have a crush on shy girls with cameras <looks at Max Caulfield> and too bad DR3 didn't give her much exposition and she was there just for a second to point at the events related to Twilight Syndrome Murder Case. Maybe someday in the future when Despair Arc gets adapted to a video game... it won't be, right...? ;_;

While most people started to hate her since the introduction, i was alright with her from the start (she was also originally one of my favorite SDR2 characters). The only problem i had is that she got pissed off a lot during the story, yet her behavior is reasonable for the situation they're in. As you can see in Despair arc, she is entirely different from how people think she is and is actually very friendly with people. Even during the game, she feels guilty for what happened to Fuyuhiko's sister and even goes to have a talk with him. This is something that most people wouldn't dare to do, given Fuyuhiko's background and short temper, but she did it anyway. Unfortunately for her, that didn't end rather well, but her death didn't go in vain, as Fuyuhiko started to change his thoughts about the matter and even considered going to her funeral once they got out of the island.

And as you can see with her FTE, she is much nicer with Hajime and starts developing feelings for him. Anyway, i think the reason she's very underrated is because of how sudden her death was, that didn't give people much time to change their thoughts on her.

It's worth noting that she probably didn't even know that had happened until playing Twilight syndrome like everyone else. Seemingly, the mere fact that she was aware that it was something she would do was enough to make her feel guilty about it. She even went so far as to apologize for it, despite the fact that Natsumi's death was not her fault, and her supposed coverup accomplishing nothing since Sato got found out and killed anyway.

Mahiru was one of the first characters to grow on me during the second game. I really liked her because she was so normal. Her personality came off (to me) like she was both really strong and really insecure and scared, to the point where she just wanted the guys to man up (or whatever) so she could have someone stronger than herself to rely on. She was really helpful during the first case, and even though I hated Nagito from the beginning I thought it was sweet that Mahiru tried to take care of him. I want to go back and do all her free time events because I think I only got to one or two before she died.

I thought her character had a lot of potential that was kind of wasted. She's barely in the Despair Arc, and her murder in DR2 was very sudden and really unnecessary. (That whole trial was such a waste, I really wanted to see more of both Peko and Mahiru.) I really wanted her to be one of my favorite characters but she just didn't get enough character development.

Her Free-Time Events are THE best Dangan Ronpa have ever written. She's my fourth favorite female behind Kirigiri, Chiaki, and Seiko, narrowing edging out Komaru. Narratively, she's probably the most important victim of the franchise.

There's also a moment in DR2 that's easily missed. She compliments Komaeda only to have Nagito turn her positive impression into a nightmare. Kinda disappointed, it doesn't go anywhere.

It was great to have her be the straight man to the antics of the rest of the class and Yukizome (Again, why is there a bear in our classroom?) , especially in DR3 where Hajime wasn't there. Kinda disappointed that DR3 had no interactions between Hajime and Mahiru. [THANKS JUZO.] (Especially since Mahiru was the only other character with a reason to go the reserve course building.)

She's the kind of student Hope's Peak was originally designed for. An ordinary girl who was really talented at one thing.

Now that Hinanami has broken our hearts not once, but twice, and Hajime x Komaru looks super unlikely, I'd be perfectly happy with Hinazumi.

Komajime? Komahina, no, taken, naejime?

Hmm...

Sounds like an interesting dynamic! But hey, how old are they anyway? I thought the dr2 were now early 20s and and Komaru a high schooler, so I dunno, ew.

Unless they're actually still teenagers?

Komaru's the younger sister of Makoto (so I'd assume at least two years, maybe more but not too many), and isn't Hajime in the class above Makoto? But being in the class above or below doesn't necessarily mean they are older or younger... You can't tell me Hiyoko is the same age as Nekomaru, or that she's older even then Mondo or Sakura or whatever

So Hajime might be a few years older than Komaru hmm

Hope's Peak only requires that the recruited student be in High School at the time. There are multiple years of high school. (And Hiyoko had been working on her talent since she was small.) So yeah. But it's a slightly different case for Hajime. He entered Hope's Peak at the normal age to begin high school.

I'm calculating about a three year difference. 1 year between Hajime and Naegi, and 2 between Makoto and Komaru. (I don't know what Hiyoko's age is.)

I've got it as of the end of Absolute Despair Girls. (I don't know the length of time between Absolute Despair Girls and DR2. But DR3 takes place almost immediately after DR2.) Komaru: 16 Makoto: 18 Hajime: 19 (76th): 20 (74th): 22

Yeah, I understand they could be anywhere from 12-18 (or 14-18 in America) to be in high school, which makes me curious their exact ages when they start at Hope's Peak. Hiyoko looks like she would've been 14 in her first year there, but some of the others in her own class look like they'd be closer to 16 or 17... which again makes ages hard to calculate. I kinda wish they'd tell us how old each character is when they join Hope's Peak, for this exact reason

Not a character I've warmed up to much since her upholding of gender roles is pretty off putting without even being an entertaining sort of off putting. Red hair is pretty cute though.

Maybe if I looked around for more fan content about her I would find her more interesting, since I've already seen a few things that were pretty good.

Your reasoning is out of focus! - I love that line.

Anyways, I don't really have much to say about her since she got killed off pretty quickly, but her "death" was pretty unfair. She just wanted to make peace over the death of Natsumi to Fuyuhiko, only to get bludgeoned by Peko. I'm reading that her FTEs are pretty good so I might get to doing them some day.

Also, she does remind me of Max from Life is Strange. Both ae photographers, both have freckles and similar haircuts and they both have mouthy best friends (Hiyoko/Chloe)

Having just started a second playthrough of DR2, I haven't seen anybody talk about how influential she is in the first trail. Aside from Hajime and Nagito, she definitely pushes the discussion most out of the whole rest of the cast. Made me appreciate her character a bit more

[S]I think anyone remotely interested in Mahiru has probably already read it, but if you haven't yet or just dived into the high effort posts the sub has to offer, someone has written quite the popular long analysis of Mahiru Koizumi here.

Also just a friendly reminder to respond to comments with a comment, not a downvote! Downvotes are for off topic discussion, comments that don't contribute to the thread, or comments that break the subreddit rule. As seen here, Please don't downvote an otherwise acceptable post because you don't personally like it.

Opinions are the spice of life!

One of my favourite characters, it's too bad the second motive was basically targeting her to be killed. She was a complex character that never had chance to show her true colours, giving a lot of people (me included at first) the wrong idea at first. It also really sucks that Hiyoko, who 'carried her soul' like Fuyuhiko carried Peko's, died in the next chapter.

It's just sad that she was a character with soo much potential but never shown. I like comparing her to Fujisaki's case in DR1. Fujisaki had his back story and problems explained but Mahiru was completely overshadowed by the Peko/Fuyuhiko scene. I really hope she gets some love in 2.5 OVA

She died early and that lead to barely any character development. So people hardly knew what she was actually like besides her anti male attitude in the first few parts.

Great character. She was my favorite in SDR2 from the beginning (I know I'm weird). She's incredibly cute. I think the problem is that her first impression isn't that good when it's the exactly how a rational person would act in a situation like that.

It's evident that she's actually a nice person (look to FTEs or Despair Arc) and is severely underrated.

Mahiru spin-off manga when?

this whole sub is just "Look at this pristine baby, I call her the SS Koizumi and God, is she wonderful. Are you jealous? I think you're jealous"

For the one person who doesn't get the reference and is too polite to ask: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=33QnUzrZslQ

She's a boat

Everyone on this thread is so sweet 🍩. I'm not used to people being this kind to a female character who displayed bias against men. People have the right to be upset at her sexism, I sure am, but I feel like the hatred people had for her bias was much bigger than the hatred people had for Teruteru's disgusting treatment of the characters, esp. the female characters.

Great girl. I didn't care much for her originally but on repeat plays she grew on me immensely, especially after finishing her free time.

Her FTE are extremely cute

I love her to no end. DR2 was full of weird, over the top characters, which is wonderful, but Mahiru really stood out for me. I could relate to her a lot. All she wanted was for people to be cool with one another and to be able to trust and rely on others. Plus, I loved her design. Simple, but lovely and I got a softspot for both redheads and freckles.

At first, I was neutral about her, but now, I can see that Mahiru is a good character. :)

She might be too much of a tsundere sometimes but she is not really someone bad. Probably insecure. I mean, she had to go through her father's alcoholism and her mother's frequent absences and this caused her to have a negative view of the boys. But of course that doesn't mean she don't trust them but more likely she wants the boys to be very different than what her father was. She might don't wanted no one to go through what she had to. Also, let's not forgot that she had her best friend killed. So she has been through a lot. I think she would be a better character if she hadn't got killed so early.Probably Hajime and Fuyuhiko would help to improve the boys'image for her and she will eventually be more open-minded towards the boys and let go a bit of her insecurity. Mahiru is a strong girl that fight for her ideals. I have seen a lot of people saying that she is a feminist, but I kinda disagree. All that Mahiru wants is for the boys to go through the right path.

Overall - 7.65/10: She is a good character. Her character Could have been explored and developed way more but she is fine. Far from being the worst danganronpa character. If you do her FTEs, the chances that you will find her character interesting will probably be high, despite her simple design. She might be a bit harsh sometimes but, you can't help but find how cute she is like a tsundere. XP Mahiru is current a Rank B on my characters tier list along with some other characters.

I've never really been a fan, personally, so I didn't overly do a lot of her FTE's. I always figured it was time I could spend doing other people's...like Ibuki's or Gundham's.

Voiced by Kobashi Yuu. That's all I need.

Since she dies fairly easy it's hard to get attached to her but her FTEs really show what a great girl she actually is. While in the Midnight Murder thing she made a mistake for the sake of helping her friend out, the fact that she, much like Chiaki, is able to look past herself as simply being a blob of talent gets her a lot of points as well, especially in a game where so many people obsess over talent.

originally I was pretty neutral on mahiru other than her preconceived gender roles she didn't really stand out much and died before you could learn much about her. But after viewing her FTEs and seeing what other people had to say about her I grew to like her and find her interesting but compared to the other DR2 cast members she probably ranks pretty low but that's just because DR2 has a generally fantastic cast in the first place.

She is actually fantastic and deserved more screentime.

But then Twilight Syndrome happened, and she was pretty much unfairly solo'd out as the target for chapter two.

Still one of my least liked motives because of how bullshit it was to single out a character to die that early on.

Very nice underwear choice. Sexy enough to make men go gaga but proper enough to not make it slutty. I approve 10/10

I remember playing the game at 12/13 and then there was the 'man up' comment - shocked the shit out of me. I got annoyed at that, at her, a lot. But - from the forums online and their hatred for her bc she was a 'feminazi' I assumed the game's creator was going for a 'feminazi' stereotype, so I stubbornly insisted on approaching her fte once I'd done a few others because I was sure she'd stick around (her personality was so strong and attention grabbing) - and then bam, she was dead :'(.

The bath scene grossed me out. Hiyoko looked even younger than her already young age, to boot 😫. I got pretty upset after it and just avoided the game. The thought that the creator of a game I loved so much was pedophillic really made me sad.

I've always been amazed at how Mahiru bonded with Hiyoko, wow!

Does anyone have any fanfic recs for her?

mahiru is bae

done

She was cute because of her freckles but I never liked her due to her excessive traditionalism. I never really got why people like her so much; I know I didn't.

She's popular for her free time events, or at least the last few of them.

Oh so that's why! That makes sense.

Although we had trouble with her FTEs because guides online said she's like a "Queen's Straitjacket" and she really doesn't. So she got a rose-in-vitro but that took improvisation.

I should replay Island mode.

For a cast that's filled to the brink with so many over-the-top personalities, her addition to the game felt so refreshing. She's sort of misunderstood, because her "High expectations for men because her father is a bum" gets translated into "Full-blown man-hater". She definitely had a lot to offer in terms of survivor material, and it's a shame that she died as early as she did.

Personally, I find her backstory to be nice, too. Seeing as how mostly everyone in this game comes from a shitty family/background, hearing her talk about how much she idolizes her mother's work, while saying she loves her father even though he's a bum, is heartwarming. She just comes from an ordinary, every-day family and has nothing bad to say, which I can relate too.

In a nutshell, she is an underrated sweetheart that deserves more love from the fandom, and to me, is one of the more relatable characters to me personally. Minus the part where she covered up a murder, of course.

Mahiru is my favourite character in the series right after Junko, and I know that's kind of strange considering how diametrically opposite the two of them are as characters, haha. One being the major villain across the whole series and is consistently over-the-top and ridiculous, the other being one of the most down-to-earth, subdued and realistic characters in the series who doesn't get a lot of screentime. Maybe the most realistic, actually? But that factor is really what endeared me to Mahiru.

Mahiru feels like the epitome of a normal person in this series. Even moreso than the protagonists so far, who sure don't have actual talents, but at the end of the day Makoto becomes known world-wide after DR1, Hajime has his Kamukura cop-out talents and Komaru ended up taking down numerous giant robots. Mahiru in comparison has her photography talent, but feels it's not as useful or interesting in comparison to the rest of her classmates' talents, relating to the series-wide theme of talent and how it affects self-worth. She comes from a somewhat-normal family, and whilst her issues are still valid, they feel very... banal compared to the anime overload/tragic backstories of some other DR2 characters. It was a refreshing change of pace at times.

It's a shame she gets killed off so quickly, because I thought it helped to have another person alongside Hajime to bounce off the more wacky students. But I feel that was slightly the point as well? Mahiru and the Imposter really come across as the Team Parents of DR2 – the Imposter quickly takes charge and responsibility for the group, and sacrifices themselves for the group's sake, and Mahiru meanwhile is quick to challenge them on decisions she feels like the group as a whole should make, and tries to help/guide other students who seem very... socially awkward. See her helping Mikan after she trips and everyone laughs at her, and with Hiyoko as well, trying to make the latter less nasty towards others, telling Ibuki not to worry and enjoy the girls party when the former notices Mahiru seems to be feeling down, etc.

So when the both of them die quite early on, the group starts to fall apart slightly. Hiyoko becomes more cutting and distant from the others, nobody really takes charge in any decisions anymore, they kind of just flounder in and out each day without a clear plan... etc. It was a touch I quite liked.

Mahiru herself, she's a girl who likes to make her opinions known all the time, doesn't back down from anything, but has a sweet and caring side to her as well, alongside some self-worth issues. I think the part of the fandom that calls her a feminazi/man-hater... really have the wrong impression of her completely. She's quite traditional when it comes to gender roles honestly, considering how much she goes on about how the boys have a duty to protect the girls and all that. And taking into account her issues with her absent father both emotionally/physically... no wonder she seems to place huge importance on that. And I think her reaction to the Imposter's death really should prove she isn't a man-hater – she's the first to react, she's incredibly upset the whole time, feels guilty for not being able to prevent it, and works hard during the investigation and trial to discover the truth behind their death.

My first playthrough of DR2, I honestly expected Mahiru to survive to the end. She came across to me as the Asahina of the game, quite a normal girl who takes each death pretty hard, but helps as much as possible during the trials. And in the first trial Mahiru was one of the most active people, who is the first Rebuttal Showdown of the game and all, it just seemed to imply that she'd be the 'Heart' of the investigating team, contrasting to Chiaki's more cool-headed approach. I would've liked that angle a lot, so again, a shame she died in Chapter 2.

Speaking of that... Twilight Syndrome. Probably my favourite motive in the series, despite how unfair it was and how it basically set Mahiru up for being the victim. There's just a lot of layers to it that I feel didn't get explored nearly enough from Mahiru's end in both DR2/DR3. I liked her scenes with Satou in DR3, it was nice to see how close the two of them were and how Natsumi's bullying affected the both of them. It showed a side to Mahiru past her headstrong behaviour in DR2, and relates to her self-worth issues over her talent, considering the reason she got bullied was due to her photography skills. I liked how throughout Chapter 2 she struggles with how to possibly make amends for her role in Natsumi's death, but then unfortunately she can't help but take issue with Fuyuhiko taking revenge and killing her best friend, not only because... well it was her best friend, but also that she believes revenge to be wrong and never worth it. It was an interesting side to her that didn't get explored much, which I would've liked, and it tied in with Fuyuhiko's struggle with feeling the need to take revenge whilst not truly believing in it, and accidentally causing Fuyuhiko to get enraged and try to kill her/Peko believes that he actually wants to kill Mahiru and does the deed herself, due to Mahiru's opinionated nature. The whole events were absolutely tragic and could've been easily avoided, and I love it so much.

I wish DR3 had focused more on Mahiru and the actual Twilight Syndrome players' reactions to the event itself, rather than Hajime's perspective on it? That was a weird writing choice to me, and definitely feels like a lost opportunity (in a sea of many with DR3). In general I wish Mahiru got more focus as a character, and more appreciation from the fandom, but at the same time I was mostly satisfied with what I got with her character? She'll always be the second favourite regardless!

She's shit.

Still my favorite.

Best DR2 Girl imo.

Damn right!

Mahiru constantly makes me question whose a better waifu for Hajime. The almost cannon Chiaki, or her. Both?

Both ofc. You can eat the bacon, or you can have the eggs, but clearly just taking both is the most profitable! butifIhadtochooseoneitwouldobviouslybeMahirusheisavastlybettercharacterandChiakifanscanfiteme

I have a thing for girls with short red hair, so I immediately picked Mahiru as best girl. And while her introduction did put me off, I stuck through it and committed my free time with her, and what I found was a weak girl who was trying make a bad situation a little better.

Mahiru's mother is a war photographer, and when she came home, she would show Mahiru photos of smiling people despite the horrible situation they are in. As such, Mahiru feels she has to take photos of smiling faces so that everyone doesn't get overwhelmed by the sadness of the killing games.

Mahiru is someone who values honesty and genuineness over pretty lies to mask mistakes. She takes pride in her photos, yet has an inferiority complex toward her mother's photos.

Meanwhile, Mahiru's father is a layabout, and she is hard on men to prove to herself that not all men are like her father and can get things done. When talking to Hajime, this is a good thing as it gets him to do the right thing and "be a man." Unfortunately, this attitude is what gets her killed in the end.

When Fuyuhiko notifies Mahiru about the TSC, Mahiru gets apologetic and works on ways to apologize to him. Unfortunately, Fuyuhiko gets impatient and decides to take matters into his own hands, dragging her off to a remote location and confronts her about his sister's death.

This rubs Mahiru the wrong way, as subterfuge and drugging Hiyoko is not "what a man would do" and Mahiru goes off on Fuyuhiko. Fuyuhiko gets riled up and almost attacks Mahiru, just to realize she is right, and stop a moment before it is too late. Then Peko comes in, takes the bat from Fuyuhiko, and ends it. Preventing any possible forgiveness that may occur.

She's okay, but out of all the girls in the game I'd say she's arguably the least interesting. At the same time, that makes her the most normal, so whatever floats your boat.

She was up there... I like Mahiru... if she had a longer role... i might have put her above ibuki

I liked Mahiru when I first saw her. She was prickly, but I hoped she would warm up to Hajime. Also, she was one of the more normal looking characters in the game which was nice. Then she dies as the second victim...I was very disappointed in her survival skills and even more so when I learned the motive of the case basically applied to very few people.

When I first played DR2 I thought she'd be the main girl, she was very helpful in the first case, she had a useful talent and she seemed to be very proactive, then she died OTL I kinda started suspecting it when she was acting kind of weird in case 2

She was my favourite as well, headstrong, smart and caring, she was too hard on the guys, but after spending some Free Time with her, I can see why, also her character design was my favourite out of everyone in Danganronpa, her colours were distinct and unique, but not overpowering like say...Kazuichi, PLUS I love freckles, and red hair, and short hair so yeah, she was great.

Mahiru was cool, cool hair, cool ability, cool character design.

Mahiru didn't stand out to me at first when playing DR2, in fact I kind of forgot she existed sometimes but when it comes down to it, she's a decent character and can be adorable when need be.

Also is it me or was her hate for men not present during DR3? I don't think I saw her say anything about hating men during the entirety of DR3.

I wish mahiru didn't die so early, I was really interested in how she interacted during the trial( she was really level headed). Honestly I'm in love with mahirus interruption for the rebuttal showdown, "your reasoning is out of focus" I just resonate with this phrase lol.

Although she has a slight trope of tsundere to her personality, she's probably one of the most reasonable characters in the series for me. Her normalcy just makes her an interesting person to take more seriously with.

WHen the blackout happened why didnt she use her camera as a light source?

A bright flash of light probably wouldn't have helped much, and her camera isn't a digital one that could use the display as a light source...

When playing through DR2, I didn't expect much from Mahiru, mainly because of her talent. As I went around for introductions with Nagito, I realized how wrong my assumptions were. I liked her character, it was a shame she had to die off so quickly.

Strong sense of right and wrong, drive to move forward and probably had a lot more of a soft spot for the MC then she let on. If Chiaki hadn't existed I'm sure she would have been the friendly supporter in trials.

I was wondering if, after Kazuichi's discussion, are we gonna move on to the new characters from DR3 (the anime)?

I don't mind her, she has the innocent character sort of personality. She likes to help people regardless of status or situation. That being said she felt more like a background character than anything... Obviously she hid evidence but she was directly asked to dispose of it by her friend and she isn't someone to betray her friends.

underrated

Will DR3 characters get their own discussion threads?

Ultimate DR best girl! I love how mentally powerful she is, it's a shame the characters like that always have to die (particularly the third one to die in each killing game).

I really like her but I totally understand why people don't - like, - feminism in characters can really make or break them for some people, and that's okay. We don't really have to share the same taste in character traits, but before I derail let's go back to Koizumi.

One thing that I absolutely love Koizumi is how well she bounces off of each character. Whether she's snappy or chilled out about it, her reactions always feel fitting, yet not forced - natural. If I go over how I would feel in a situation with the DR2 kids, I always end up feeling like Koizumi's a character I can identify with more.

She doesn't really have any charming, unique, memey character traits, she's just who she is and I think that sort of individuality is among the best of all, especially in a franchise where even the most unique character archetypes can end up blending with others at some points in the story.

As for her talent... as a photographer myself, I can't say I came out particularly fulfilled by it. Her role in the first case is absolutely great, mind you, but... at the same time I was left desiring more in that department. When a character has a mundane talent, they usually go into a lot of detail about it during their FTE sections, but with Koizumi, not so much. It's kind of a nitpicky complaint that probably just comes more from the writers not knowing how to write it in very well, but I digress.

All in all, Koizumi is one of the first DR characters I genuinely felt a connection to, and over time, she climbed up my list and has overall become one of my favorite characters. She feels like such a natural and relatable character to me.

To summarize: I'm a photographer too, and I love powerful characters, oh boy yes sirree I do. #TeamMom

I adore Mahiru. At first she just seems like a rude and overly critical character but if you delve deeper into her character, you find a lot of hidden layers and a lot of care and consideration behind her strong-willed and even somewhat abrasive exterior. Not to mention, she's just an adorable tsundere and her FTEs are probably the cutest in the whole series.

Mahiru is a really cool character. Probably has the best FTEs in either game. When Hajime first meets her she just gives the worst first impression, but as you get to know her you really understand where she's coming from. You can see that the whole anti-man thing isn't coming from a place of bad intentions. Mahiru really cares about people a lot, and that's what leads to her downfall. She protects Sato, which ultimately leads to Sato's death (and hers.. kinda). She's basically the only one in Nagito's corner after 2-1, and he subsequently manipulates her into playing the video game. She befriends Hiyoko, who unintentionally factors into luring her out to her demise. And of course her pivotal moment is wanting to make amends with Fuyuhiko, and we all know how that ended up.

She's not perfect. Hell, her cover up of a murder is borderline unforgivable and she really is too harsh on men. But she ultimately has a good heart. That's what makes her such a good character, all these internally consistent traits of hers that work both for and against her. For instance, she's headstrong and cares about people, which leads to her wanting to make amends with Fuyuhiko, but not backing down on criticizing him for murdering Sato even though she should've known how dangerous he was. That's not to say she's stupid or anything, it's just that she only ever would've done that, that entire situation was so uniquely her. 2-2 is Mahiru's case more than anybody else's.

Sorry for the rambling, just have a high opinion of Mahiru.

I don't really like her, her FTEs wouldn't have changed a thing.

She's very good. I love her a ton, and I'm very thirsty for her

I honestly don't have too much to talk about Mahiru, since I really didn't feel that strongly one side or the other towards her. She was just one of those 'strong-minded' girls who refused to take shit from any men, and could have been interpreted as a slightly sexist and annoying character. However, I do believe that she did want the best for everyone, and considering she had few problems with her own father, I think this behavior can be easily excused.

With that said, I think she was taken too early from us for us to truly explore and appreciate her character. Sure, her death did become the catalyst to Fuyuhiko's massive character development and stuff, but sometimes, I wonder what would've happened if Fuyuhiko was the one who ended up dying in that confrontation and Mahiru survived. Would she become one of my favourites? Or my least favourites? Or just another one in the middle? Who knows. Which was I was especially disappointed with her portrayal in DR3. She was definitely one of the biggest victims of DR3's limited episode count, since outside of the Twilight Syndrome episode, she didn't really.... do much.

Such a shame too, since she could have been a pretty interesting character to explore the backstory of...

[deleted]

how dARE YOU >:C

Character Discussion #35 - Chiaki Nanami (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Gamer

Appearances: Danganronpa 2 Goodbye Despair, Danganronpa 3: Despair Arc, Hope Arc

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Class Rep of Class 77 and one to bring the class together

Killed by Junko Enoshima to cause Class 77 to fall into despair

Brought back as an AI in part due to Class 77's wish to see her again in the Jabberwock Simulation

Is the traitor working for Future Foundation as revealed in Chapter 5, executed again alongside Monomi

Appears in front of Hajime Hinata one more time during Junko's confrontation, giving him the courage to continue forward and leave the simulation

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Gamer, Chiaki Nanami!

She's a genuinely nice person, and very kind... but she is bland as a character. She has little flaws, and is designed to be as likable as possible. I didn't really like her role in DR3 that much, which didn't help either. The entire class would harp on her and even fell into despair just from watching her execution (which honestly felt cheap to me).

It was watching her die + despair video modifications. If the despair video modifications weren't there, I don't believe they would've fell into despair the way they did.

i mean, if there weren't the despair video modifications, they wouldn't be there staring helpless but try to rescue her instead

They said that they couldn't move. They SAID they were going to but once again, couldn't move.

Nuff said.

Her character feels like it tries too hard to be waifu b8 and removes any flaws. I enjoyed the role she played in DR2. Not a prominent focus of attention but you could see that Chiaki low-key led the class trials in the right directions. Chiaki was relevant but not so much as she was constantly placed at the forefront of the plot and sucked off attention whenever she could. DR3 just ruined her for me though by doing exactly that.

Agreed, the best characters have their fair share if flaws as well.

Note: this portion is only observing the AI Chiaki shown in DR2. DR3 chiaki is given a separate post that I've replied with below. I also wrote this on my phone in a pretty quick rush, so you'll likely see several autocorrect points.

Chiaki isn't honestly one of my favorite characters in DR2, but I still can bring myself to appreciate her, though maybe not for the same reason as most. Chiaki by nature is a character defined by her limitations, and in the context of the game's overall message, I think it works pretty well. I wasn't really broken by trial 5 if not just because trial 4 had already broken me. There wasn't anything left they could do. I still liked the trial a lot though. I still personally find Chiaki most intriguing in chapter 4 more than any other point in the game.

Chiaki has a bit of Kyoto in that she becomes a confidant toward the protagonist, clearly takes from alter ego since she's essentially his younger sister, and her character arc is essentially an inverse of Sakura's, especially given her role as the "traitor" of the group. Although she's like Kyoto as a confidant, she never really carries the team with trials and instead acts more like Byakuya in debate style, though minus the arrogance. Nagito better fits the role of bring several steps ahead of the game the way Kyoko was.

As an essential part of the Neo World Program, Chiaki isn't able to make a conscious choice to kill anyone. Makes sense. If you wanted to make a virtual reality simulator, it makes sense that you take precaution so that you don't have your creation go rogue. It means that Chiaki is essentially immune to the motives thrown their way. Coming off of DR1, this'd be a huge blessing. Characters like Mondo would kill to have killing immunity. Wait...

However, for Chiaki, this turns out to be more of a hindrance than anything when DR2's motives begin to branch away from the theme that the first game had. I realize some are a bit turned away by this, but the motives particularly in 3 and 4 where the element choice is slowly dying out. Chiaki's actions are following the belief that since she's part of the program, it's best that she die if someone in the group absolutely must go out. However, she's not able to make that action since she's limited by the program.

She knows most if not all the answers everyone needs, but can't clarify for everyone. She knows why they're trapped and what Monokuma is, but is limited and can't reveal it. She probably knows Monokuma's larger goal, but can't reveal it. It reaches its climax in chapter 4 where the only way out is through killing. Chiaki can't sacrifice herself to free anyone though. More and more, Chiaki is hindered by the nature of her existence and can't do much.

Instead, most of Chiaki's actions are used to hint at her being the traitor, and at several points, it's hidden behind the idea of her talent when in truth it's because of her efforts. Chiaki ends up fighting a battle we're not even seeing until chapter 5's climax.

In chapter 1, she agreed to stand guard outside with Monomi, which would seem like a better task for say, Nekomaru, Akane, or Peko. But this again is her not wanting to directly endanger anyone by leaving the most perilous task to them. In chapter 2, she's one of the few to play the game, and the narrative tries to play it off with her talent. Ultimate gamer, of course she's gonna play, right? In truth, she knows she's immune to the motive and can't kill from it, so she can play it herself to know how to best prevent any kind of killing without having to expose anyone else to the risk.

Chapter 4 has several lines where Chiaki is dealing with this. One of her lines at the end of the trial shows that she completely agrees with Gundham's belief that choosing to starve wasn't a good option to take.

"that belief...is why you committed your crime."

Chiaki is the one in the group during the end that catches on most to Gundham's motive and is the one to point it out.

Before we even reach this point, we see two more situations where first Chiaki stops Hajime from entering the final dead room and her notebook showed she believed it to be because of his growing anxiety at being suspect as the traitor and the fact that he was starting to regret his choice to have everyone starve in the funhouse. This doubles as a red herring to also make some suspect that Chiaki is keeping you away because she already took the weapon herself.

There's also a part during the investigation where the group sees they need to check the final dead room, and Chiaki frankly declares that she'll be the one to check it. There's no "I think" or anything to come from this. Chiaki, Hajime, Gundham, Nagito, and Sonia are the only people who make any mention of or actually do go in the final dead room, all for different reasons. hajime was motivated by anxiety. Gundham because he refused to actively have everyone starve to death. Nagito because he felt he was worthless and didn't want the talented to take an unnecessary risk when they have the trial to focus on, Sonia for investigative purposes, and Chiaki not just for the investigation, but the belief that she's the best option should someone have to stake their lives. Once again, the game really makes a strong use of their choice in talent because you'd likely think that she's doing this because of her talent. After all, who better for a life threatening game than the ultimate gamer?

This scene really shows the Hajime, Nagito, Chiaki trio as three different forces at work--talent, luck, and effort, three core forces in pretty much any challenge in life.

DR2 makes a point to show off each character's talent in the best way it can (though it's admittedly hard for some like Sonia and Fuyihuko, but they do show off every talent). Chiaki Has hers pretty downplayed, however, since multiple people were able to uncover the secret ending to the game. The game stresses the point about the importance of effort and self belief over talent and uses Chiaki at several points to illustrate it. It explains pretty much everything during the climax of trial 5 since Chiaki is happy to be the culprit when everyone doesn't fully understand, and she spends a great deal of time talking about her limitations, and all of this sets up for her return after the group is put in a no win situation once again in trial 6 and she reminds Hajime that he can't let himself be chained down by his limitations or by talent.

Having said that, there are parts of trial 5 I feel would have made more sense I earlier trials, like if everyone came to the realization that Mikan had the deapair disease at the end of the trial and see she's. It really at fault since she actively tried to save everyone and have to vote her as the killer anyway, or in case 4 when Gundham pretty much went through the motions as a formality, it'd seem like a good time for Sonia to insist he tried when he already accomplished his goal, only to have him get angry and defend himself the moment Nagito makes the comment about not fighting.

That's mostly how I saw Chiaki. Still not a favorite character of mine, but one I felt was fitting for DR2. I think the only time I felt she was truly out of place was in trial 3 where she tells a cornered Mikan "this is your just reward" which seemed unnecessarily preachy and not understanding, especially with how clear it should have been that Mikan had the despair disease. She's able to say Nagito isn't entirely at fault and mostly reckless in trial 5, so that line seemed really contradictory to me.

That line aside, Chiaki was a pretty welcome character fighting an internal war that comes to a climax in chapter 5.

Really interesting analysis, good job!

Note: This is only observing Chiaki in her role as the person as opposed to the AI portrayed in DR3. Please see the post this is replying to for AI Chiaki.

Unfortunately, I'm not going to be as kind to DR 3 Chiaki, who I felt was absolutely one of the most annoying characters to be put in the whole anime. Make no mistake, I can live with Chiaki now being confirmed to be a real person and that she was part of the class—what I don't care for is how much of a pedestal she is constantly put on throughout the whole anime. We're introduced to her immediately being promoted to class representative and the party scene shows that each and every person absolutely loves her and has this big moment with her. We see she's one of the few to resist the aphrodiasiac enough to take out teruteru in a single strike. We see she's the one to plan the party, and there's this constant air of "Oh, Chiaki did it, no worries."

Hajime's character in DR 2 had his own sense of agency and Chiaki wasn't required for his character to function. He had a great deal of insecurity about talent and worth, and Chiaki was a confidant to him, but she was a supporter who came into contact with Hajime. His character didn't hinge around hers. In Dr3, it's pretty much Hajime's entire motivation, going as far as Chiaki being added to his final thoughts before becoming Izuru, his breaking point of wanting to be worthy of her, and the only thing that managed to make Izuru feel anything apart from the scene when he was caught off guard after nearly getting shot.

It reaches its climax when the brainwashing of the DR 2 cast shows that seeing Chiaki die and brainwashing is what did them in instead of the various implications set up by DR 2. I could go on for an entire essay about the implications of confirming brainwashing, but that's a discussion for a different post. Either way, it climaxes with Nagito's "Chiaki is our hope" line and all those people like Teruteru's mother, Hiyoko's father, Akane's siblings, and many many others don't mean anything compared to Chiaki, the girl they played video games with a few times. To top it off, we now see Izuru's motivation isn't a decline into boredom, but now see his motive behind DR 2 is—you guessed it—Chiaki. I can be fine with Chiaki, but she's forced on every other character in such an unfitting way that it becomes insanely distracting and I found it just to be annoying at several points that they'd go so far as to shoehorn Chiaki into everything. Her over the top death was pretty much the crucifixion of Jesus Christ in the context of Danganronpa if we're saying it led to so much horrible shit, and while it was brutal, I really kind of had enough by that point just by the sheer amount of "feel for Chiaki" the anime has already imposed on the viewer.

If you're familiar with the game Persona 3, I feel a similar way about the character Aigis in the answer, which is bonus content added in Persona 3 FES where you play as her instead of the protagonist. It has the same effect of overcentralizing everything to her on the basis of being popular and it really shows when you bend all the characters and events in the games to her.

Now, catering to a popular character in itself isn't inherently a bad thing, but it does go that direction when you start retooling entire characters or stamp in entire motivations for major events in your narratives, so it must be done with caution.

While I was pretty neutral to Chiaki in DR 2, she became one of the things I despised the most in DR3.

Chiaki's role in DR3 is what I imagined Junko Enoshima would be. Only Junko Enoshima can be talented enough and charismatic enough to become the center of the universe for a cast with such varying motives and personalities that they're willing to become the Ultimate Despairs for her.

Of course, it was questionable how they'd pull this off even when you have Junko who allegedly started with unlimited charisma and talent, and even with all the attempts to hype up Chiaki, she's still nowhere near Junko in either category. It almost feels like since if Junko tried to do all that and was unconvincing she'd lose her mystique so they throw in a fan favorite Chiaki instead as a surrogate, but in the end all that did was screw up two characters instead of one.

I would love if at some point you wrote an entire essay about the implications of confirming brainwashing. I love reading these long analyses. You don't have to do it now, of course, (if ever), but I would greatly appreciate it if you made a post at some point. Thanks for always writing in these threads!

I've definitely been planning to or was thinking of saving it for Junko's revisit, but I'll be sure to.

Thanks! I'm looking forward to it!!

I wouldn't say that Chiaki was Izuru's motive for SDR2. Izuru wanted to escape from his never ending boredom, find something unpredictable, and he planned to accomplish this by pitting despair and hope against each other.

I'm not arguing it's his sole motive, but it's still framed through the lens of Chiaki, since him being brought to tears by her was what stirred him into the decision.

Sorry to point this out, but you just called Kyoko Kyoto. Otherwise very well thought out analysis.

I wrote this on my phone on the way to work, so autocorrect likely came through at several points.

[S]I'll be frank - not the biggest fan of Chiaki. Now I'm not in the camp to denounce her and call her a Mary Sue, but I do find her rather uninteresting and plain.

However, that doesn't justify the sheer hate boner Kodaka must clearly have for Chiaki, who just gets utterly screwed in every appearance she has, let alone dying twice. I don't even like her that much but where's her Cure W, she deserves it at this point.

i wonder how kodaka will kill nanami in NDR3.

Dear god, this is gonna be another Hajime post...

[S]Woooo time to go on a rollercoaster ride of karma.

I'm hoping the one that appears at the end of Hope is an actual copy of the AI version, overwriting the Junko AI Izuru smuggled in.

If Chiaki isn't a Mary Sue then I don't know what is

Yeah, no she's not. Being popular, nice and female does not make one a Sue and I'm tired of seeing characters get slapped with the label blindly. Mary Sues bend reality to revolve around them in impossible ways, are incapable of screwing up (or else have it turn out to be a good thing), beat the utterly impossible odds, and are idealized characters overall.

Chiaki's not idealized. She was a loner before Chisa introduced her to the class. She doesn't accomplish anything--her attempts at pep-talking Hajime fail, her rescue mission is a bust, and she gets skewered when she tries to escape Junko's execution.

Speaking of the rescue mission, that was all her idea, and it was a huge mistake. It lead directly to her classmates' brainwashing and her own brutal death. If she'd pulled it off despite literally being up against the Ultimate Analyst and Ultimate Everything, that would have been Sue-ish. She did not, she got a horrific dose of reality.

She suffers from the same thing everyone else in Despair Arc does--rushed pacing from cramming Class 77-B's development into one or two episodes. But that's different from a Sue.

Real life Chiaki is basically Wrong Genre Savvy when it comes to handling Junko or reality for that matter. She herself was not idealized, but she had a rather idealistic view of the world.

That being said, I'd consider her almost a proto-Ultimate Hope timeline wise.

Except this is all DR3, which is only one version of her character

SDR2 Chiaki's not a Sue either. Someone else in this thread wrote it better, but she's flawed and held back by her programming as an AI, unable to provide the group with answers they could really use and equally powerless to stop what's going on. She accomplishes more than her real-life counterpart, but she doesn't solve everything herself and still gets played by Nagito.

The fact that you actually got a few down votes for this.

Oh boy, here we go...

Chiaki is probably one of the most controversial character in DR. At times, it seems like absolutely every fan of DR adores her, while other times, it seems like absolutely everyone either hates her as a character, or just hates all the crazy amounts of attention she's getting, which I can kind of understand.

Firstly, I'll start off by saying that I do consider DR2 and DR3 Chiaki the same character, even though one may be an AI and the other may be an actual person. I do think that their personalities and general characteristics do match up.

For me, Chiaki is definitely my favourite character in DR. And, for me at least, definitely the biggest reason why she is is her personality. Yes, she is definitely adorable design-wise, and her talent as the 'Ultimate Gamer' definitely appeals to me as a gamer myself, but her personality is definitely the main selling point for me, and more specifically, the fact that she is the spitting image of a perfect leader. Now, that might not be an obvious conclusion, but to me, there could not be a more fitting word for Chiaki than 'leader'.

I'll start off by just naming a few things she has accomplished as an 'leader'. In DR2, she basically led every single Class Trials. Sure, Komaeda might have been smarter than her, but since Komaeda is well... Komaeda, Chiaki was the one who was always leading the discussion. And she did her job basically perfectly - not only did she point out many things that others just didn't see, but also she listened to everyone even when everyone else ignored them, and basically helped to unite everyone together to come to logical conclusions. As much as I love Kirigiri, she was definitely more of a 'I'll tell you the answers so just shut up and listen' person. But Chiaki didn't. She knew very well that she couldn't just solve the entire case by herself, so she instead tried her best to unite everyone under one cause and keep them all focused on the task at hand, and not be diverted by the killer's ways.

And also in DR3, well... there's not much I need to tell you more, right? I mean, her role as the Class Representative has been so highlighted multiple times throughout the entire anime that some people got annoyed by just how much of a special treatment she has been getting from the writers. And while that's definitely fair, I still think that it just goes to cement her as this 'perfect leader' who can unite pretty much any dysfunctional group.

Now, let's talk about few of her personality quirks that really make her the perfect leader, such as the fact that she is an extremely nice and caring person. Throughout DR2 and DR3, we rarely see her really 'angry' or 'upset' at one specific person. She's always trying to help out others, cheer up those around her in different ways, and generally try her best to help those around her. However, she's definitely not Naegi levels of pure niceness that it kind of leans into naivety. We do see her display actual emotions of anger and upset-ness at certain times, and to me, this actually makes her a better character and, more importantly, a better 'leader'. A leader should not be always trying to pander to everyone - they should know when to get angry and when to get upset to help both them and others to learn something, rather than just saying 'it's alright'.

But more importantly, she's someone who is always watching out for everyone else. We see this exemplified the strongest in DR2, Trial 5. The fact that even when she fully knew that she would die if she tried to everyone else and STILL decided to sacrifice herself, and not only that, but smiled and cheered everyone else on because she knew they were devastated at seeing her go... just speaks volumes about just how much she truly cares for her friends.

A different side of this is illustrated in DR3, where instead of succeeding in saving everyone like in DR2, she fails. Despite trying her best to escape Junko, she eventually succumbs, with the full knowledge that because she failed to escape her Junko, all of her friends would fall into despair. And THIS is why she is so torn up and cried her eyes out at the end of the episode. Sure, the fact that she knew was going to die was probably one of the reasons for her crying, but to me, the fact that she couldn't save her friends was a bigger burden to her. The fact that she kept saying that 'she wanted to see her friends again' signify this fact, and truly cement her character as someone who really cares about those around her, sometimes even more than herself.

So, yeah. I really like Chiaki, if you couldn't tell. Is she a perfect character? No, of course not. I can totally see why some would perceive her as an 'uninteresting character', and also understand some people saying how she was such a big focus in DR3 that it kind of detracted from the entire experience. However, she still remains to me as the best character in the franchise, and probably the only character whom I consider to be a role model: someone I constantly I strive to be like, and someone that I would have no problem switching personalities with (which is something that I can't say about anyone else).

You summed up everything I like about Chiaki better than I ever could.

Chiaki is my absolute favorite character in the danganronpa series. Now, I know tons of people think she's a mary sue, or too generic, or waifu bait. But she's one of the truly real feeling characters in my eyes. When talking to Chiaki during the free time events or during the main story line, I spoke to her as myself instead of as Hajime, as I do with most of the characters.

Anyway, to keep my title as Ultimate Artist:

Complementary Chiaki Drawing

Wow, that's a nice drawing

Also, sorry to all those who I promised drawings (Nagito+Ibuki in a band and a comic of Chiaki and Izuru) those things are coming, just in a little while.

have patience

literal angel. "you've got that wrong! ... i think." the necessary mom of the group like kirigiri. (though dr3 i thought she was completely ooc)

I've always been unsure of what to call Chiaki. It's not that she has no flaws. She's always tired, struggles with dating sims, and is kind of antisocial. However, I feel that these are flaws were put in to make her more likeable. I never see anyone actually dislike those flaws. They're seen as positives by nearly everyone I talk to. This is one of the main reasons for why I think Chiaki was created to be as likeable as possible. I don't think it's a bad thing to dislike characters created for you to like, but it personally turned me and a lot of other people away from her.

Another issue is that she felt shoved down everyone's throats. She took a large amount of screentime in DR2 that could have been used to develop other characters. A lot of her screentime felt like the developers telling me, "see how great she is? She's really adorable, right?" The ending with her giving hajime a pep talk didn't help either. Then, the writers not only found a way to make her a real person, but make the entire despair arc plot revolve around her. Something bad happening to her is the only way to make class 77 fall into despair, because she's just that wonderful. She (and Junko) took up a good amount of screentime from the dr2 cast, and caused a lot of people to feel the dr2 characters were caricatures of themselves in despair arc. Then, Izuru even decides to have hope and despair battle it out because Chiaki inspired him. Finally, Hajizuru sees Chiaki one last time on the boat as part of his conscience or something. Not exactly sure what happened there, but it felt like the writers needed to let you know one last time that Chiaki is the one who inspired him to do all this. Because she's that great. See what I'm getting at with the shoved down your throat sentiment?

Again, I'm not saying any of this is fact or what the writers were thinking. But the point is that the vibe given off is that they feel the need to constantly remind me how great Chiaki is. It gave me a feeling of resentment instead. I don't mean to insult anyone who likes her. You can like whatever characters you want for whatever reasons you want. It's impossible to be "wrong" for liking a character. But I personally will always dislike Chiaki because of how much I felt like she was being shoved down my throat.

I can see why people dislike Chiaki but I still like her, I hated the way she dies though (in the game and in the anime) She didn't deserve that...

What reasons are there to hate her? I'm not a Chiaki lover, just curious

I think one of the main reasons some people didn't like her was because she seemed too perfect or that it seemed like she was made just for fan service

Basically this. Another explanation would be Chiaki felt shoved down everyone's throats. Like they were trying as hard as possible to make everyone like her.

I didn't like the direction her character took in DR3 and the explanation for AI Chiaki was pretty flawed considering the ROD could have thought up Junko as someone to watch over them. Imagine sdr2 with Junko and Monokuma in the game as separate players.

Her deaths were pretty sad though.

Honestly, I don't get why Chiaki gets labeled a Mary Sue so frequently but not Izuru. Edgy badass who can do literally everything? Izuru is like the epitome of Mary Sue. The entire concept of the Mary Sue is inherently unfair because no one seems to want to acknowledge that nearly every male fictional protagonist ever is a modern Mary Sue. I can totally understand and respect not liking her character, but it just seems so weird to accuse her of perfection when 1) she died brutally... twice and 2) Izuru is literally the most idealized character in the entire franchise.

I don't think either of them's a Mary Sue. Chiaki made her share of mistakes (namely insisting on the rescue mission) and died horribly as you said, and Izuru's idealization is supposed to be a deconstruction--he's on a pedestal so high he doesn't care about what happens to those below.

But yeah, fandoms tend to apply that label more to female characters than males even when it isn't applicable at all. It's unfair.

Great point. I'm not fond of the Mary Sue trope in general and would much rather have it not exist since it's original purpose was literally to mock women in fandom, but Izuru just seemed like the most logical comparison. Really, every character has a little bit of Mary Sue in them. It just definitely strikes me as suspicious that Chiaki is the DR character most frequently accused of being a Mary Sue.

And Yukizome isn't. Pre-despair, she was pretty Mary Sue.

You could argue that Izuru is an in-universe Gary Sue showing the horrific reprecussions of such a person.

Which makes him a deconstruction, like I said. Kinda like Namine and Xion in KH, so not really a Sue/Stu at all :P

Izuru is literally meant to be a Marty Stu when it comes to his talents. That's the whole point behind his character. No one says he's a Marty Sue because the natural response is "no shit".

Do people even like Izuru that much? I know he has some fans but I don't believe he's even that popular, especially when compared to someone as popular as Chiaki.

EDIT: And while Chiaki isn't a Mary Sue - she's not OP enough for that - the reason people call her that is because in DR3, she took on a common Mary Sue trait of having everyone in the class love her and idolize her in a short amount of time for reasons that can't be obviously understood by the audience. As an avid Chiaki fan during SDR2, I hated what they did to her in DR3.

I think Chiaki is more like 'obligatory tragic death heroine' and there's probably some Mary Sue type characteristics that goes along with her in order to fulfill that role.

I wish I could write a longer post but I find her boring tbh, and I've done her FTEs

Before the only interesting thing about her is that she was an AI but now it's not even that, she never gave me a reason to hate her though

[S]Ultimate Indifference.

I was a little bit spoiled for Chiaki's role in DR2-- I kept seeing fanart of her and Monomi with Junko and Monokuma so I went into the game thinking she was a traitor or mastermind. I spent most of my Free Time with Chiaki and Sonia because I was pretty convinced both would die really quickly (lol).

I really liked her. Chiaki AI was the first character I took an immediate liking to in DR2. I thought her gaming obsession talent and intermittent narcolepsy were endearing. She was really normal compared to everyone else (I said this about Mahiru too), so it was a nice change of pace to just hang out with her. It made the ending feel more meaningful, because I had spent so much time with her in-game that Hajime's closeness to her really felt right to me.

In DR3 I was just happy to see her alive, but I will admit I think her character was a bit too perfect. I still liked her and related to her and I thought her becoming class rep and really bringing the group together made sense-- she's the Ultimate Gamer, once she was given a hint to how to "win" in real life, she just repeated that formula every "level." "Chiaki did this/everything" well of course she did, she's not the type to give up on a game when it gets too hard or too easy.

I think at the beginning she feels trapped by her talent. It seemed like she was doomed to become a SHSL NEET and live the rest of her life in solitude playing games (girl, same) but then over the course of DR3 she learns how to apply it to the rest of her life and finally sees she has a brighter future ahead of her than dark rooms and TV screens.

And then she's executed. Twice.

I don't think she's the MOST complex character, but I think she's a bit deeper than people give her credit for. She's relateable and normal with a very hopeful character arc. I still don't like that she was used to drive the rest of her class into despair (I was hoping for a more interesting backstory) but it kind of makes sense-- she (imo) was the most prone to falling into despair, was filled with the most hope and potential throughout the course of DR3, and then her life was cut short before she could do anything with that hope/potential.

This is kind of rambly and definitely not the best essay I've ever written, but I just realized I had more feelings about Chiaki than I originally thought and now I would die for her so...

Was never a fan of SDR2 Chiaki, I found her okay at best. I was not interested in her character from chapters 1-4, she became okay in chapter 5 since we learned that Chiaki's an AI so that's at least some explanation as to why she has never shown much of her emotions. The last chapter with her appearing in front of Hinata was the only scene of hers that I actually truly liked. Although I don't like her as an individual, I still like her as Hajime's partner throughout the whole game. I never really saw the big hype with her, all I see is a plain character. Though I don't get why others would call her Mary Sue. She's kindhearted, smart, and gentle but not my type.

DR3 Chiaki was good, although not enough to make me cry in episode 07. The character development that she had in Side:Despair is more than welcome since she's the only character in SDR2 who never really changed even when faced with despair. She seems livelier now and actually shows emotions. I love her relationship with Hajime and how she served as Class 76's hope. I just wish we saw more of how she united the class.

The boat scene with her and Hajime made me shed a tear which is probably all the reaction that I can give for her.

TL;DR: Chiaki's character isn't bad but she's just not my kind of character. I personally think she'd go better in Slice of Life or Romance animes, not Danganronpa.

I think Chiaki was specifically designed to be liked by most of the fanbase. For one her talent instantly grabs people's attention, her derp sleep personality, slight childishness and innocent intentions instantly make her a fan favourite. I'm pretty sure this was all bait from the start...

Now she had somewhat unique FTEs. If you looked past her talent, Chiaki had a lot more interesting points, the way she thinks ("Something is born from touching someone, whether it's repulsion/anticipation..." This one being very interesting), how calm she always is (refuse to run/never screamed before) and the way she spoke about things in general. If you're a big fan of Chiaki and someone asked you her main attribute, the answer isn't her talent. It's how her real characterisation goes beyond that.

Now as you've gone along DR2 and if you've taken the Chiaki bait, you'd have easily noticed how she gets ever more useful and involved in the game (helping the group and in the trials), how even Hajime is interacts with her more friendly and stuff and probably thinking alright, I found the waifu of this game and she's going to live like Kiri did (lol). Of course there's still the traitor you have no idea of and there's that voice in the back of your head saying (Chiaki has something up) but you ignore it.

At chapter 5 things get serious, you have to find the traitor. Nagito dies a cruel and painful death, blah blah blah and the you end up in his cottage reading Monomi's notebook, the childishness of the writing and drawing seems familiar but you ignore it. Keep going to the the trial where you figured out how Nagito died but not who threw the poison. And then bam "You know who the traitor is don't you Hajime?"

The answer is screamed at you, neither you or anyone is the game really wants to accept it though. But you're forced to prevent proof constantly on how it is Chiaki (Amazing voice acting here with Hajime's sad crippled depressing voice of disbelief and sadness). Then, when it comes to preventing the final proof with notebook and how Chiaki wrote it. Hajime monologues to himself 'The moment I saw this notebook, I knew it... But I didn't want to admit it.' And I think that goes for a large amount of the fan base.

And that's the giant bait of DR2, the game tries to link the players feelings and Hajime's feelings for Chiaki as one so the we all go through this denial phase of an emotional rollercoster similarly. We both feel awful, horrible and want to cry/already are crying. We, the player and Hajime, taste the same Despair. And THAT is why I love Danganronpa, the greater the despair they throw, you know the ending is going to be even more satisfying. The Despair at this part is my favourite in the whole franchise.

So chapter 6 comes, you're pretty confused about the dead talking but you go to fake hopes peak and learn everything. As the trial goes by, you learn about the Neo world and how Chiaki was just an AI which punches you even harder in the gut but gets you to question on how much that really matters. As we keep going through the pain we are graced with Hope as Chiaki saves us from Despair and we push through the end of the game in one if the most satisfying but bittersweet endings i've ever had. I think that's what made DR2 so amazing.

Now is Chiaki a complex intricate character? No, she has a few odd points (mainly as she's an AI) but is overall more simple. I understand why some people don't love her but the journey a lot of us (that took the Chiaki bait and loved her) went through with Chiaki in DR2 is why we love her so much... ... ... I think.

Fuck DR3 though.

dr2/3 spoilers

At first Chiaki was a character that didn't stand out during the first chapter of DR2 she had an interesting talent and was kinda cute but otherwise wasn't too memorable. from chapter 2 onward however she quickly grew on me to the point where she was one of my overall favourite members of the cast and having to accuse her in chapter 5 was heartbreaking I almost felt like Hajime having to accuse her of the incident but seeing her reappear to help Hajime later on during the final trial was nice. when she reappeared as the real Chiaki in DR3 it was nice to see her again and I also liked how she felt distinct from the AI Chiaki at the same time. I also kinda related to her situation of being a loner playing games without much friends and finding them later on. And seeing her die in a brutal way again was just outright cruel but at least it wasn't in vain because it would later help with the neo world program and bring back Hajime and the hope arc showed that he didn't forget her and likely never will which was touching.

DR has this serious obsession of killing someone who did absolutely nothing wrong to show how messed up the world is. Knowing that, it's hard for me to care about Chiaki, knowing that she exists as probably the most likeable person in DR just so she can die horribly later. The character actually hits everything I like in a female character, but I can't just can't put any emotional investment in a character that solely exists for the 'sad tragic death'.

It's not that you can't have a likeable character that died tragically. It's that DR doesn't even try to hide it. Maybe if she was in DR1 instead before this kind of see through character development becomes obvious I'd have liked her, though I'm not sure if even that'd be enough.

TLDR: Chiaki let me down in some ways as a DR2 character.

When I booted up DR2 initially, I was SO HYPED for a "Super High School Level Gamer" that I immediately thought This is it. This is the DR Character I want to be/cosplay. However, as the game bore on, I felt something was missing from the Ultimate Gamer. As such a huge fan of the gamer motif, I wanted to see Chiaki dropping obscure gaming innuendos and creating improbable solutions to problems using gaming strategies. However, when the game did these things it didn't hit home for me:

Chiaki was the first character I tried to collect all Hope Fragments for in my first playthrough, so I saw her final free time event before any of the other characters. I was disappointed. Although a huge lead-in to the big reveal for AI Chiaki, the scene felt really unfilling for me. I wanted Chiaki pull some "Roses are #FF0000 Violets are #0000FF and all of my base are belong to you" romance stuff. Despite this, I now recognize it wouldn't have fit very well into the overall game.

When Chiaki does reference gaming in-game, it feels forced and half-baked. Instead of representing the diverse types of knowledge gleaned from gaming, Chiaki uses the same technique twice in the game (see Floor Mapping in CH.2 and Ch.4 Trial of DR2). This is one of my biggest critiques of her character. I know she is an AI, but she's supposed to be a very advanced one. I would have liked to see her bring other things gaming-related to the table. Even though Chiaki did point out the meaning of Down-5 to Hajime in Ch.2, I felt that one was pretty obvious; a typical mystery game clue. Definitely not a clue limited to the Ultimate Gamer's knowledge (try playing Spike Chunsoft's other flagship series, Zero Escape, if you disagree).

As it were, I have no other problems with Chiaki. I like her design, as I am obsessed with Hoodies. She's a good leader and her character dispels the myth/trope of "Genius Leaders" to reveal that someone who is a team player makes a good leader.

DR3 Chiaki gave some of the above points some redemption by allowing her to geek out with Hajime on screen. However, I agree with a number of other comments, good and bad, about her character in DR3: the anime focused heavily on her and her 'class rep' title, she doesn't emote much in the anime, her actions aren't huge but small and kind, and she's either loved or despised by the fandom. Since the anime took the time to give her some of the characteristics I thought she was lacking in the DR2 game, I'm still pretty middle-of-the-road when it comes to Chiaki.

**edited for formatting

I feel like those who accuse Chiaki of being a Sue or boring haven't read too deeply into her character. She's not a perfectly developed character, but she still has some interesting flaws.

To begin with Chiaki is shown to have low self esteem. AI Chiaki says things such as "...I think," showing she isn't confident in what she says. In the anime we see that Chiaki was a loner until Chisa encouraged her to make friends, seemingly due being to scared to attempt to make friends. Chiaki doesn't believe being an ultimate is significant while herself being an ultimate, and actively says she dislikes her ultimate, reflecting a lack of belief in the importance of her abilities. I could go on, but I want to keep my post brief; basically all of the evidence posts to Chiaki being insecure about her self. This is a fairly large flaw in my opinion- not being able to appreciate yourself can make you massively unhappy. It also adds an interesting element to her relationship with her class. Why is so willing to do nearly anything for them? Possibly because she thinks her own life worthless, and the best thing she could do with her life is use it to help people she thinks have actual value. Why does she go on about how much she values her class? Possibly because they're the ones who helped her begin to appreciate her self, and allowed her to escape her self loathing.

Another flaw Chiaki can be obsessive as a friend, probably as a result of her insecurity. Hajime and Chiaki only interact on a couple of occasions before Hajime goes off and becomes Izuru. Yet Chiaki still waits for him after school after 6 months of them not interacting. It's not normal to try to meet someone you've only hung out with a few times when they do not contact you for months; most people would just forgot about it and focus on other friendships. We also see how eager Chiaki is to look after her class. On the surface this seems like a positive trait, Chisa praises Chiaki for it, but I think there is also a negative flip-side. We're told Chiaki organises events for the class on a DAILY basis. Imagine one of your friends tried to organise specific activities (not just hanging out together) for your group of friends on pretty much every single day. Would that not seem overbearing? Chiaki clings to her friendships obsessively, in a way I don't think is entirely healthy. This makes sense considering the fact she is insecure about herself, she is scared of her friends suddenly rejecting her. So while on the surface Chiaki's ultra eagerness to support her friends seems like a good trait it has a very eerie side to it. Chiaki is secretly a yandere who will kill anyone who dares come near her beloved friends!

I'd also say that Chiaki also has a bit of a one-track mind. We see this when she first meets Hajime- Chiaki completely ignores the fact she has bumped into him because she is so absorbed in her game. Thinking about it, when in the anime has Chiaki focused on anything besides gaming or her friends? Those two things seem to be all she talks about. Now this could be a result of Chiaki's character not being fleshed out well enough, but I think it links to the other things we know about Chiaki well enough to be a purposeful trait. Chiaki wouldn't care about many things pertaining to herself because she does not like herself, hence not revealing them. She obsesses over games which give her joy and distract her from her self loathing, and obsesses over her friends which help give her a bit of confidence. Once again what initially seems to be a good trait- diligence, and being highly focused- also has a negative flip-side of being not being able to consider many different subjects.

I hope this fairly brief (or at least not well developed, aha) explanation of some of Chiaki's flaws will help convince you she's not a Sue. Rather, her character is kind of tragic.

She's my favorite character. Do I understand why people dislike her? Yeah. Is she a perfectly written character? Nope. She's a little uninteresting and most of her flaws are executed pretty poorly which resulted in the mary sue debate. So why do I like her so much? Strangely enough, she's one of the few characters that give me emotional attachment. Just the way the series portrays her gives me the need to protect her with my life(not exaggerating)and not because "Mah cinnamon roll", more so that she's such a leader like motherly friend who goes through such pain and sorrow, only barely getting a happy ending which is kept very vague. It makes her a character I become overly attached to and doesn't feel pandering or cheap. And personally, I don't actually think Chiaki is a mary sue. I think she has a few traits of a mary sue, but she doesn't fit enough qualities to officially be called one.

TL;DR Yes, I think Chiaki is a very good character. Not the greatest in the franchise, far from it and she has poor traits, but I feel a personal attachment to her personality and role in the story. Apologies if I came off as cheesy, but those are my honest thoughts.

Well, most of the people already said my reasons of why I dislike Chiaki in this thread so I will just summarize. Her death in DR3 was sad? Abit. Enough for make me care? No.

For be sincere, if you ask most of the fans why they like Chiaki, the answers will be "She is cute. She is waifu. She is a gamer and I identify myself with her...etc." I honestly dislike Chiaki. First, they made she like the perfect girl in DR3. She was fine in DR2 but it worsened in the anime. She is the class rep, she is the one who gathers everyone together through games, everything she does is praised by the rest of the 77th class. Not to mention, she was the catalyst for the 77th class to become the ultimate despair. I don't mind the brainwash but just through the death of one of their classmates are enough to turn them into despair then their life was beyond shit.

Not only that...But one thing that Chiaki did and that annoys me, is when she go to her class and ask for help to save Chisa, even though she saw what Izuru was capable of. I mean, yeah, both Peko and Nagito warned them about how dangerous it was but the perfect waifu told the class what they should rescue Chisa. Why not go to an adult or something instead? I mean, she is the student of hope's peak and can't even ask someone else instead a bunch of students to help? I know she was in the panic but that feels a bit off to me.

DR2 Chiaki was not good and DR3 Chiaki just worsened. DR2 Chiaki was just there for be like a support to the protag like "Continue, even if you are having difficulties. I will be by your side." She is not a mary sue for me. The creators just tried to force people to love her through her cute waifu design and some heroine like roles. I know that there people who like her because they find her interesting or love her ftes. But honestly, the ones that like her just because of her design are disappointing to me. I mean, you will love a bad game with an awful gameplay but amazing graphics? I'm not saying Chiaki is the worst character but she is one of the characters that I really dislike for being too perfect in what she do and how the creators were trying to force the fans to immediately love her by using some qualities that most of the people love(that is most of the cases involving some people, not in general): gamer; cute design; perfect in whatever she do etc.

In NDRV3, the Cosplayer should be executed while dressed as Chiaki so we can see her be killed off once more and get thrown into true despair!

Calm down, Junko!

Personally I'm sort of okay with chiaki. She was this more "playful" detective we had than kyoko, and she was genuinely nice. But the idea of her being the traitor for me was sort of obvious. She barely had any lines, and she always spend time with monomi who we knew was against monokuma.

I liked her a lot at first since she took some hard roles, sacrificed herself to the team, is best friends with my waifu sonia, and really was a bigger ultimate hope than Hajime. I like her a lot, even more in the anime, but come on guys you can't blame kodaka. We had to know that she was going to die because of her AI version. Yes I'm sad too she is dead, but her sacrificed made the remnants of despair become hope.

IRONICALLY her death in the anime made them fall to despair, but her death in danganronpa 2 made them release that hope is important

Ultimate Gamer.
Calm and analytical/observant.
Sometimes I forget to sleep.
Sometimes I forget to eat.
"... I think."
I care about the others around me and don't want them to fall into despair.
Yep, I'd say I'm a lot like Chiaki.

I'm one of those who shamelessly adore Chiaki, so my view of her can frankly be a bit skewed towards the positive. In the interest of a fresh angle of approach, I'll point out a few subtle techniques used on her in DR2 which I suspect shot her up through my list of favorites. It's here my bias can shine: I could mistakenly assume these techniques are effective because they're used on a character I love so, rather than because they actually are effective. I'd like some feedback on whether there may actually be something to them.

Firstly, despite being one of more important characters, she's not really asserted onto the player much until the later chapters. In a game such as Danganronpa, where there is a huge cast of colorful, varied characters who the player would want to engage with, having a character who gets disproportionately much attention might make player resent them, because they take away time the game could use to flesh out characters they resonate more with. This was at least how I felt with Sayaka, and to a lesser degree Kyoko, in DR1. Chiaki, however, is for the most part kept on line with the other characters for a while into the game, except for the chapter 2 investigation, but that's well justified because the motive centers around a video game. If she instead was a black hole for the attention of the main character, I probably wouldn't appreciate her much (and sort of why I find her DR3 incarnation kinda poor). She does step a bit more into this role in the later chapters, but by then I was invested in her so I didn't mind. Though I can imagine someone who didn't connect with her much might dislike her more because of that.

To channel the spirit of Chiaki, these two last techniques are exclusive to video games and reflect the unique potential games have for getting people invested in characters.

As a player, I quite enjoy answering obviously wrong in the trials to fish for funny responses (I'd recommend people to try this). Chiaki is the El Dorado of this. She's usually the one who reprimands Hajime when he says something stupid, often with a funny line. Point out the wrong spot, and she'll tell you how dumb it is, usually while referencing an obscure Famicom game you have to Google. In all the trials, she has really funny responses if you accuse her of being the killer (except for the fifth case, in which it is not funny at all). Like in the second one where she plays along and pretends to be the killer, only to point out how wrong it is. As a player, playing, for lack of a better word, with a character like this really endears me to them, and also gives me an opportunity to interact with them on my own initiative. In an interactive medium I feel this is important.

Lastly, let's talk about the importance of routines. Of course you could say we play video games to escape routines, but let's not underestimate consciously using routines within a game. Usually, when Hajime wakes up to a new day, he'll head to the restaurant to meet with the others. On the way, if you so wish, you can pass through the lobby, and that's where you find Chiaki. She's the only character who always predictably appear at the same spot like this, and if you will you can establish a routine of having a chat with her each morning. That means that if the player is engaged enough with the character, they can, on their own initiative, tighten their own bond with her. I really liked the atmosphere of waking up, taking a stroll around the pool and talk to whoever is there, before entering the lobby and be showered in Chiaki's characteristic combination of sincere dorkiness and optimism. Such an important staple of the morning that it continues even after she dies.

In the end, I recognize that these techniques enhances appreciation that's already there, but doesn't build it. So if you didn't already like her, these may fall flat. This is where subjectivity enters the picture, and in my case it really captivated me with her. Enough to drive me to share my thoughts on her like this. Enough to knock all productivity out of me for a couple of days on both occasions of her death. I think it is really awesome, in the true meaning of the word, that a fictional character can affect me in this way.

I think I should go back through the class trials and accuse Chiaki a bunch so I can get a better appreciation for her character. Thanks for the analysis!

I like too how Chiakis optimism breaks down the "barriers" of the program to talk to Hajime/Izuru some more in Ch6. you go, Glen Coco.

Chiaki falls into a weird position for me. I don't have positive feelings towards her as a character. The reasoning for this is mostly because of DR3, which, I feel, ruined her character in DR2.

I was part of the camp of fans who hoped DR3 would actually show our beloved students falling into despair and being "brainwashed" in a not so literal way, like being broken emotionally and led to think despair is the only way to get back at the world. When it was revealed there was a real Chiaki, it threw that possibility out the window and meant characters like Mahiru, Teruteru, Hiyoko and Ibuki wouldn't be getting any real development or screen time from the story, being pushed a side and treated like decorations.

Chiaki's real life existence is weird. She was first shown off as an AI created by Chihiro and her first name was a combination of his first and last name. She was also clearly idealized physically. She was every straight gamer dude's wet dream and it originally seemed she was this way because Chihiro made her to be that way. She is the busty beautiful girl who loves videogames and is completely sweet and interested in the protagonist's concerns. When she was revealed to be real, I was hoping she wouldn't be the idealized Chiaki, but she was and she had no relation to her creator (which I guess they scrapped so Chiaki could star in the anime and play with everyone's heart strings. They should have still made it so Chihiro had some sort of relationship with her, it was unfortunate that the only shoutout a character as great as Chihiro got was in a vision)

Chiaki is made for you to like her. She has flaws, of course, but they are lovable flaws that make her more appealing. The anime did very little with her flaws, only playing with how she cares so much about her friends that it becomes dangerous. It rubbed me the wrong way that she goes from a complete stranger to her classmates to their best friend in a matter of a few hours. Like it happened so quickly that it felt forced (and then the super punch was just giving her strength abilities that she shouldn't have had/made her Hiyoko's hero when Mahiru or Sonia would have jumped to the aid of a girl they've actually been in class with since the start of the semester/Akane or Chisa would be more physically capable), I preferred it a lot more in DR2 where the relationships formed more realistically.

Anyways, Ai Chiaki, if I block DR3 from my memories, is pretty cool. She acts as a great right hand woman in trials, aids in investigations and has the whole narcolepsy thing going on. She does make mistakes, like promising to let no one else die then immediately plays the "kill Mahiru" motive and does nothing to protect the obvious victim, but I don't see that as effecting her character negatively. I would say she was one of the better characters, with an emotionally and narratively impactful death and her storyline ended wonderfully within the game. I feel it was a much better send off than DR3's since her death was always coming in it, they didn't even try to hide it, and her execution was long, drawn out and semi-comical. Her last moments with Hajime were nice though, but what came before just wasn't written very well.

Overall, I think Chiaki is a symbol of the consequences that happen when you go from Game to Anime. In the game, she was well written, got a great send off and was balanced enough to not get the annoying idealized treatment. In the anime, a lot of it was poorly written, paced too quickly, ended a lot of character arcs on not so touching impactful notes and idealized a lot of characters so you'd have to like them.

One reason why i felt the anime chiaki didnt do well as Game chiaki is that the anime for each sides only have 12 episodes so that would mean less character development and rushed story. I find Anime chiaki decent but not as good as Game chiaki .

Chiaki Nanami. I get why they focused DR3 on the real version of her, a pre-Izuru Hajime, and Chisa Yukizome. The rest of 77 has a full game to their name with free-time events to learn about them. These characters have nothing.

Perhaps what I'm most disappointed with is that her relationship with Hajime didn't work both ways. Hajime was clearly changed by spending time with Chiaki. Chiaki... not so much. I mean, I was expecting Yukizome's lie to play a major factor, instead it leads nowhere. Not even when Chiaki looks him dead in the eye and says 'Hajime'. Nothing. She's a perfectly serviceable character otherwise.

How many times has she died? I'm actually getting impressed.

Fuck chapter 5. That's all I have to say.

Chiaki is SHSL Sad Death

I'm the kind of person that one they really like a character they ignore any negative aspects about said character.

I'm like this way with Chiaki. Even though she may be a Mary Sue in some aspects I just ignore the fact because she's one of my favorite characters in the series and willing to ignore any character flaws to see her as they way she is.

holi shit chiaki mai waifu.

No, but seriously, I like this girl so damn much. Is she a Mary Sue? Yes. Is she flawless? Pretty much. Do I care? Not at all.

This is odd for me, as I'm typically the type of person to dislike characters who are simply and flawless. Chiaki, for some reason, is the exception. I'm not sure why. I can't pin what I love about her so much that it overrides that.

I think it's the series, actually. Danganronpa is a scary world. Anyone could betray you at any second, kindness is often a guise for malice, and no one is ever safe. Those precious few characters who are just genuinely nice are the kind that we hold and grasp onto tightly. Characters like Sonia, Aoi, Sakura... and of course, Chiaki.

More than any other kind character, however, she was helpful. She helped solve pretty much every trial, and she was a driving force behind many of Hajime Hinata's decisions, not least of which was finally standing up against Junko.

Kind, loving, selfless, helpful, and yet still managing to be wonderfully sassy and adorable, Chiaki Nanami manages to EASILY take my number one slot for favorite character.

Don't hate Chiaki. Just hate the amount of attention she gets from fans, writers, and characters themselves.

She da Super High School Level Waifu. Especially Chiaki_Nanami.exe Ver. 2.0.

Plays vidya. Stays up all night. Nice rack. Mildly autistic. 100% pure cinnamon roll. Squishy.

What more is there to say?

chiaki my nigga

Chiaki in the games was great. While Chiaki in the anime was sub par.

To be honest, i did start as "oh man, she gonna have kirigiri's role"... and yeah, she did... she grew on me along the game... she was quirky, shes supportive.... and yeah, she's cute. She just like to play her games. Call me simpleton but yeah, i like her that way...

How bout DR3? Yeah, she was different from AI but her core is pretty much the same... still kind, quirky and supportive. I totally love her. <3

I never got why people called her a Mary Sue!! She brought a group of people that only knew each other based on sheer talent into a close bundle of friends that love each other and while doing that she came out of her comfort zone of being mostly by herself to such a wonderful fictional character that always wants to love and help and dksjsjs i stayed up all night I just Love chiaki oh man oh my

I didn't cry both times she died! BAKA! (BTW can Juzo be the next character?)

There is already an order, but I know they have yet to announce when we'll discuss Juzo

Chiaki's my favorite female DR character for reasons that have been discussed to death already.

All that's left is for me to wait how Tsumugi's character will be, as so far Tsumugi's hitting more 'I like this character' points than Chiaki did.

I really liked DR2 chiaki, and her FTEs gave her more character.

DR3 though, i wouldn't call her a "Sue" because that would be a non-critisism.

What i will call her is just plain ol' Boring, she doen't have any character besides kind and wasn't given enough of a reason to die besides let class 77 in despair.

I blame that manely on the short lenght of DR3, though that's not an excuse.

chiaki is such a wired charter for me i dont know if she my favorite charter or not and if she it a good charters or not. now dont get me wrong i dont hate her she have a good design and she is helpfel in the trials but she is just odd to me and i dont know why

-2 points 1 year ago 
Mahiru > Chiaki

YOU HAD YOUR WEEK

I was interested in Chiaki throughout chapter 1 to 3 and I spent all of my first FTEs with her.

I remeber when I said Chihiro was really boring and uninteresting because he didn't really have any flaws, and then I said Chiaki had the same problem but it's fine because she's not a real person anyways.

...Good times.

Chihiro has flaws. He's childish, insecure and unconfident, not to mention his identity crisis.

Honestly? Nanami didn't strike me as interesting during SDR2. I was kinda like "Oh yeah,it's the gamer again",and I sort of brushed her off,I guess. I actually liked Twogami/the imposter and Hanamura more than her,so Chapter 1 basically made me cry my eyes out during Hanamura's execution.

I didn't really feel anything during Chapter 5; like yeah,husbando Komaeda is dead and now waifu Nanami is down the drain,but all of my favourites have already died anyways so it's not like I can bother to care anymore.

After DR3 and all of the shenanigans surrounding her screentime,relationship with Hinata,and anything involving her,she's just evolved into a joke character for me. I didn't even cry during her execution,and I just couldn't understand why the fandom was so affected back then.

But yeah,as I've said,she's a joke character to me now. I'll be cosplaying as her,but the dead,punctured by spears version. Mostly out of irony and my dark humour. That'll be fun.

Character Discussion #36 - Teruteru Hanamura (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Cook

Appearances: Danganronpa 2 Goodbye Despair, Danganronpa 3: Despair Arc, Hope Arc

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Prefers to be called Chef over Cook

First killer of DR2

Attempted to prevent Nagito Komaeda from starting the killings, but along the way ended up as the first murderer himself due to a desire to leave the island

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Cook, Teruteru Hanamura!

Hanamaru is part of the trio of characters breaking the art style (along with Bandai and Yamada) that are treated as jokes, punching bags or are otherwise inconsequential and some of my least favourite or disappointing characters.

I can only hope for Ryoma Hoshi to break the trend, since while the contrast between voice and appearance is amusing and might be played for laughs, he seems the most serious character wise and might actually be taken seriously by the story.

I genuinely forgot who Bandai was for a solid minute after reading this.

You're not alone, unfortunately.

I'd definitely put Teruteru over Bandai, Yamada, and Yuto (or, as I call them, the Boner Boys).

He's given much more of a coherent backstory, and has reasons for why he acts the way he does.

Hoshi is gonna be fuckin awesome though. I hope he manages to be the first surviving Boner Boy.

I'm hoping that Ryoma will be out-of-left-field husbando material. He's already got the voice for it.

Another day, another character I'm not too wowed over. I realize you can only do so much with a character in such a short span of time, but at the same time, Teruteru goes from being a walking cliche to a walking bisexual stereotype.

I think it's clear from his introduction that he's meant to give the same impression of the pervert character that shows up WAY too often in this type of game--the kind the game constantly beats down or has the girls abuse as a cheap way to say "see? We're not okay with this behavior! Now if you'll excuse us, we'll be getting in more obligatory fanservice and more sex jokes in and beat this character up to make it seem like it's beneath us."

Then comes the line with Nekomaru to confirm that Teruteru is down for anyone--not just the women.

I feel Teruteru was just an attempt to make a character a loud stereotype to make them stick since they won't be around very long. The UI as the first victim was an excellent early character and probably the best in the series so far just with how many questions he raises. Teruteru on the other hand I feel didn't really need the horny bisexual gimmick tacked on since he works fine otherwise. It's true his character lends itself to trying to be flashy since they're trying to go for the "country bumpkin trying to look fancy" angle with him, but all the constant perversion really wasn't needed. I think something that might help more is if the characters start bonding up a bit earlier to also try and help us better remember them since we're generally going to have a harder time remembering names that soon. I think Teruteru would have immensely benefited from someone either helping out with the good or a bit of a bro partner like say Kazuichi (though for Kaz's, you'll really see tuwant s come through) that can elaborate more on what Teruteru was like after his death. Some of it I feel is danganronpa kind of sticking a little close on the formula and kind of having a character with little to no mention 2 chapters after that character is gone. Usually the chapter afterwards, everyone is reacting to the incident.

Take away the perversion and Teruteru works fine as a pretty likable guy. He acknowledges and the game acknowledges that he wasn't entirely innocent since, although Nagito was a crazypants, he still made a conscious choice to try and kill. I can live with that. I don't think a character has to be innocent or even likable to be compelling, and given the choice, they were aware they lost their memories, but I wouldn't put it past someone to value the life of a loved one, especially one who is ill and left tending to an entire restaurant alone, over a group of what was essentially strangers.

I think if DR1 hadn't already used it, money would have been a great starting motive for DR2 since it could be used to tie to Nagito, who is confirmed to be loaded in his FTEs, and it helps to play more into the red herring of Twogami attempting murder himself and doing it for the cash since he's not the real one and Teruteru would want the money clearly to save his place and treat his morher's illness. Having maybe a poverty angle behind him where he gets really upset with people over wasting food (he gets mad about moldy ingredients in his FTEs, but more because of the ingredients themselves) or maybe two people were set to clean the dining hall and one person skipped out and left Nagito to do it all alone, prompting Teruteru to get really upset over leaving someone to handle things themselves the way he had to care for his mother himself would make for some good sympathy points. Nearly all DR characters are stereotypes to some degree, but this is one point where I feel it really detracts from the character.

All things considered, Teruteru is one of the less popular characters, so I'm mostly preaching to the choir at this point. I like him a bit more mostly because I've personally been in the position of a caregiver and can really sympathize with that part, but he's still a walking sex joke and kind of played more for that since he goes out so soon.

Teruteru is a seriously underrated character. Everyone sees him as a throwaway joke character who only exists to make a few jokes, kill, and die.

This simply isn't the case. Teru has much more depth than meets the eye, you just have to dig to piece together his backstory.

And this fitting. Teruteru has a habit of lying about who he is and the world around him, because he is ashamed of who he is, and is overall genuinely scared. He makes lies not just to fool others, but to make HIMSELF believe. He creates this facade, pretending to be this mature (in both ways) adult.

This isn't out of nowhere, or left unexplained. We are given a reason. His father, or lack thereof. In a freetime event, he talks about "a grief-stricken mother.. and frightened young siblings who were born to different mothers..."

This obviously isn't a wild hypothetical. This IS his life. His father goes around, having sex, and leaving the mothers to care for his kids alone.

Teruteru never had a father, and his mother was sick, too sick to support the family. Teruteru was left alone to take care of his mother and diner. Because of this, he feels like he must act like an adult-- a man. And the only male figure in his life was his father. The sex-maniac with an overly-confident attitude.

This explains his sexual behavior. It's not his own urges. It's because he feels like he HAS to act like that, or he'd be weak. He knows that's not really him, but he forces himself into that role anyways. We see his true self when he snaps, and in his flashback.

And his siblings? The anger isn't jealousy, but resentment. His siblings were born of another mother. They have money, but because Teru's mother isn't their mother, they don't help support her OR the diner. He feels abandoned, justifiably so. The world was against him. He had to fight off large restaurants owned by grown men and women. He had to manage a diner. He had the work of an adult, and he was competent enough to get by.

Teruteru is one of the strongest characters in SDR2, but people don't want to acknowledge this, because he's a joke character and just that.

The anime doesn't count bc it botched a ton of characters

[deleted]

He's one of my favorites, behind the Ultimate Imposter. I've been waiting for this discussion for a while now so I could write all this down.

Thank you though! My goal was to, at the least, make more people tolerate him.

Teruteru is one of the strongest characters in SDR2, but people don't want to acknowledge this

Dunno if I'd go that far. Even without being a joke character, you've already got several characters in pretty harsh circumstances, and there's not really much basis for "one of the strongest" characters.

There's a character there like you said, many see him as a character who exists to kill and die, but I'd argue that's because his character was a complete afterthought. His presence in the game is still more for the perversion jokes, and even in his FTEs, they take that route with him at several points.

I do think he has some degree of substance to him, but don't think it's correct to say fans just need to dig a little more, I think it's more that even the developers didn't give a shit about this guy.

I didn't mean 'strongest' in reference to what the character actually goes through, I meant he is one of the most well written (for as little time as he gets). He's not sexual for the sake of being sexual, there's an explanation given to us, and it's actually pretty powerful. Teruteru as a character seems to, at first, do more harm than good. Like you said, all he is (or, moreso, seems to be), is a bisexual stereotype and the token pervert character. Then you look at his actual character. A teenager forcing himself into roles he truly doesn't feel comfortable fitting into, because he feels like he has to, in order to be strong. He's definitely not just there for the sex jokes.

I'll agree they definitely fucked up with the execution (not actual execution..) of Teruteru's character, but they had something going.

He has a complete backstory, and a pretty good one at that, but the problem is that BECAUSE the developers decided not to flesh him out, his backstory is kind of brushed under the rug for the most part and not really addressed. It's definitely there though, and it does take a bit of work to actually figure it out.

That's fair, I'm mostly just pressing on this portion:

Everyone sees him as a throwaway joke character who only exists to make a few jokes, kill, and die. This simply isn't the case. Teru has much more depth than meets the eye, you just have to dig to piece together his backstory.

That's implying that people just are ignoring some goldmine of a character and not willing to look. It's a slight distinction from them not just focusing much on the character, resulting in there not being much fleshed out about him.

As for being sexual, there's a difference between explaining and justifying. Even if you provide an explanation for his actions, he still consciously chooses to act this way, and it's still way too common a trope in this series to have the perverted character trying to get in bed with whoever for them to really not gloss over or play deeply. I think it's just giving a bit too much credit to say they were doing anything besides looking for an excuse to make sex jokes even if they slap a bit of backstory or character along with it to not seem as raunchy.

I never said he was an amazing character, though. He could be the worst character in the series, but that still doesn't change the fact that he has a backstory which is major to his character that is being completely overlooked. The developers definitely messed up w/ how that presented him, and I can understand why he is forgettable.

Explanation is better than justification. His actions don't need to be justified, they're better left that way too. His actions are justified to him, though, and that makes him so much more interesting.

There's really no reason to say that unless you assume the developers literally did not care about him at all , which isn't true. They gave him one of the most emotional scenes w/ the end of his trial, and a great motive. They put a bit of work into him, but they messed up.

Wow. I never disliked Teruteru other than the bisexual stereotype thing, but i never liked him either... but this sort of puts it into perspective for me. Thanks for making me appreciate his character a lot more.

Only somewhat related, but this is the thing i like about Danganronpa. Because of all the FTEs, if you put enough effort into getting to know a character, they become so much more lovable, even though at first they can seem like the most unpleasant person to be around. You get as much out of the characters as you put into it.

I don't think he's the strongest DR2 character persay, but i have to agree that there's more to him than "lol im a horndog." Nice job spelling it out.

I really like this post.

As a bisexual man, there seems to be a lose-lose-lose situation with writing bisexual characters going on. If the guy is with a woman, they're straight in fan eyes. Guy, gay. Teruteru? Just a deviant. It's kind of frustrating, really, seeing these kind of reactions to bisexual characters.

So, while Teruteru is still one of my least favorite characters overall, I will say that I have respected him as being a kind of bi visibility character in my favorite franchise, even if it takes a large amount of investment into his backstory to understand his motivations. I don't think we have another canon bi character, at least in the games and DR3? Please correct me if I'm wrong.

I believe it's just Teruteru. He's the only one who outright said it.

If Teruteru had made it to case 5, would he have attempted to suck the poison out of Nagito? ;D

Between Teruteru and Akane, Nagito's front tail sure would have been up for a heated debate on its relevance to the trial.

Seriously Akane why did you keep bringing that up did he get a post mortem boner or what

JUSTIN BIEBER!

AVRIL LAVIGNE!

TAYLOR SWIFT!

PARIS HILTON!

OH LETS FUCKING GO. Teruteru is my fuckin' boy. He's completely hysterical but has a heart of gold deep down. It's clear that he doesn't have many friends which is why it's a bit heartbreaking seeing how much he cares about his mother.

It really bugs me seeing the unanimous hatred for a character that adds such a unique dynamic to the series.

Plus, his VO is a fucking legend.

Edit: God DAMN reading these comments make me salty. "I don't like him because he took advantage of Sonia! I don't like him cause he's a bit of a dick!" Fuuccccckk offfffff. You guys are stiff over Nagito Komaeda who is unanimously one of the shittiest human beings in the series. Teruteru is a fucking gem.

I really don't have much to say about him. He takes advantage of Sonia's ignorance to try and get her to perform sexual acts for his pleasure... That in itself is kinda f-cked up. He's ultimately a bit of dick with very little redeeming qualities. Even his motives for killing in the second game weren't very sound, though he at leased admitted it and apologized in the end.

If every other word out of his mouth wasn't an innuendo, I'd probably like him a little more... Still... his FTE's with Hajime...

[S]So the next week will be a bit different because it's the first time since the Discussions started again that Half-Week's are happening again, due to minor characters. I'll be following what I outlined, but to those who haven't read it this is basically what the next few discussions will look like:

October 31: Teruteru - Half Week

Nov 4: Komaru Naegi - Full Week

Nov 11: Shirokuma - Half Week

and once it's Nekomaru's turn the schedule will go back to normal with discussions being posted on every Monday after Nov 14 again.

This is just to clear it up so I hope it helps!

Also apologies for the lateness of this post, my internet has been spotty and dead for a good while so it was trouble to get this up at all.

Teruteru is a minor character??

I agree. Teruteru deserves a full week of our attention.

Yeah. This is kinda bull. The post isn't even that high up or anything (compared to Chiaki) so this discussion is hardly gonna get attention as is. I've been waiting for Teru for a few weeks now.

[S]Unfortunately I'm not a mod so I can't pin it, whenever I make a discussion I immediately PM one of the mods, and whenever they see it they stickie it depending how often they check Reddit.

I only put Teruteru as a minor character because a lot of characters in the past with little screentime or early killers (even characters like Mondo, etc) generated only 10~ comments and there wasn't much discussion going on past the first 12 hours, so I assumed the same with Teruteru. I'm not sure if it's the larger size of the sub now or that I misjudged Teruteru, but I've clearly made a mistake since this is getting just as many comments and discussion going on, so I'm considering making it the full week depending how many other Teruteru fans there are plus the schedule.

I'm only trying to figure out how the rest of the discussions will fit the schedule then cause I do want them to usually start on Monday's, so I need another half week character to match with Shirokuma that'll be bumped up to go right after him so Nekomaru can start on a Monday and it's between Leon and Kotoko right now.

Sorry though, I didn't mean to slight fans of Teruteru and I hope there are no misgivings over this.

Yeah, I realized that after I made the post. I just edited it before you replied.

I understand why you'd say Teru fits into that group now that you've explained it. I actually expected this to one to get very few discussions too, considering it's one of the least liked characters right after one of the most liked characters (Chiaki), and I'd be able to freely rant about how Teruteru is the best character in the series horribly misjudged.

Do what you want, though. I was a bit mad at the time I wrote that because I thought barely anyone was going to care about this discussion, and the shortened time would only worsen it, but that's not the case.

I'm sorry for how rude I must've sounded though.

[S]Yeah, I'm taken aback by how much discussion is being generated because Teruteru always seemed heavily disliked, but I welcome it. At this rate I'll probably leave it up since this has gotten more comments than a lot of other major characters already, I'll just wait and see (especially if it takes the mods a while to sticky it).

And no worries pfft I didn't think you were overtly rude. I'd feel robbed too if my favorite character seemed to get the short end of the stick.

On The Meat Bone Neva 4get

It's not about major or minor character for half week discussions, it's more just with how much traffic the character gets in the long run. We had a few cases like this before and they get some talk in the first day or two, but then it really stagnates pretty quickly, and it's not to say that Teruteru is unimportant, but more that the bulk of the people discussing are on the same page about him, so we're not really going to have much to say.

Why not put Shirokuma & Kotoko in the same week ?

[S] 
I was thinking Kotoko might have enough discussion to warrant a full week, and I'd rather stick to the character order given. Plus I want these to usually start on a Monday, so I don't want one half week character (Shirokuma for sure) and then the rest of the series starts on Friday's cause of it.

However, I've noticed the outcry for a full week of Teruteru and I'm seriously considering extending him to a full week. I hope there's no misgivings over this.

Riots and protests will start breaking out if Teruteru doesn't get a full week.

Protesters will swarm the streets, chanting "WE WANT THE PIG BOY!".

I didn't really like the guy. Okay sure he has his humor with TAYLOR SWIFT. And when he first met sonia it was funny how he was saying dirty jokes and she understood nothing. But then he just is pretty bland tbh. His original accent was pretty stupid, he could have told everyone GUYS NAGITO IS GOING TO KILL SOMEONE, but he didn't bother.

I like his motive, it's pretty sad, and that was one of the most saddest scenes in danganronpa. Sadly he looks soo basic, and isn't really that much of humor.

He didn't bother telling everyone because he wanted to kill Nagito. Because he wanted to go home. To see his mother.

He said it was to protect everyone, he probably made himself believe that, but in reality, he just wanted to kill. That's the beauty of Teruteru, among other things, is his denial. His denial of the world around him to the unhealthy extreme we see it at is what makes him such a great character. He will outright deny the obvious, despite believing it wholeheartedly. He's afraid, and so he resorts to excuses and lies.

He's afraid, and so he resorts to excuses and lies.

Just like this subbredit :D!

Seriously though nice character analysis

I've never appreciated the perverted aspect of his character--and from what I can see, very few people do, but honestly, I found the reason behind it very interesting (acting that way because he feels he HAS to as it emulates the behavior of the only male role model in his life), and his motivations for the case were really very tragic.

It's funny because I honestly do like Teruteru, or at least I want to like him, because everything aside from the constant sex jokes seem like a legitimately compelling character--someone who mimics the behavior he believes is acceptable, maybe because he doesn't know how else to act. Hell, even the sex element could be interesting if it wasn't a joke, like exploring how that mindset changed him and the pressure he feels to live up to something he might not even want in the end, but sadly it's mostly just dumb excuses for sex jokes.

...I feel like I like Teruteru overall, but only on paper. Canon just makes him pretty cringey 80% of the time.

Yes! He would be such a great character if the developers took him seriously for a god damn second. They gave him such an interesting backstory but decided to brush most of it under the rug and obscure it.

I thought I was the only person to make the correlation between how he acts and his father, though. Glad to see other people realized that too (unless you saw my analysis, which is also cool!).

He's great on paper, but I guess you can say they had a problem with the...

Execution.

Underrated

I genuinely want to understand him more but...

I always try to give characters another try, but I just couldn't get my head around Teruteru's motives. I kinda get the point of being scared and nervous and stuff but he made too many claims. Upon being found the killer, we got motives such as "I was manipulated" "I didn't mean to kill him " "I just wanted to protect you guys" & finally "I just needed to go home no matter what.

These motives do have interest on thier own, but when 1 killer claims all of them it hard to give them sympathy and easier to think they were just excuses. I do get that Nagito manipulated him to an extent where Teruteru would be content to kill him (sort of a revenge thing I guess) but he clearly had intentions to get away with it, making the "I just wanted to protect you guys" complete bullshit. (And when a character lies about that stuff, it's pretty bad for thier rep)

Now wanting to see his sick mother is an interesting motive, but I still don't necessarily like it. A 'mother' is usually seen as something pure, caring, nice and sacrificial. They sacrifice a lot of free time to take care and give love to kids. That's the very reason I find killing 15 other classmates to see one disgusting... "Hey mom, I killed a bunch of kids to see you."

Having bloody motives in order to see something pure just doesn't make sense. And YES characters can be flawed in someway, but when Teru just has all these inconsistencies it makes it hard to forgive him as a character.

I can accept that he could have been a deep and intricate character with lying issues and childhood scars, but we don't see ANY redemption qualities while he's alive, all he is manipulative for dirty reasons and seemingly only cooks to impress... .

He's was sort of similar to Mahiru by dying before revealing the more complex part of thier character, but Mahiru had shown at least a few redemption qualities before she died, and why she died as well.

RIP Teruteru, hated for all eternity. Unless the OVA gives you some help, who knows maybe it isn't too late to see him? (Still hoping it shows Mahiru more though)

While I mostly agree with you, the first murderers are already inherently more sympathetic because in both games, they are informed that everyone else will die after the murder. They know ahead of time they have to get away with it, but no one knows until the investigation starts that if the blackened gets away with it, everyone else is killed.

At that point, the blackened is left with "me or them." If they don't get away with it, they will be killed, but if they do, everyone else will.

Still not morally sound, but a lot closer to sympathetic than the later murderers who know the consequences to everyone else.

I thought the information on everyone else will die was restrained in DR1 only. I'm pretty sure this fact was clarified before the first murder took place in DR2 but I'm gonna have to check again now.

If you are right though that puts Teru in a much more sympathetic spot, with the it's me or them situation being directed at Nagito.

IIRC, the 'have to get away with it' and the trial were disclosed in 2, but the consequences for losing the trial were clarified after the investigation started.

I feel like i'm the only one who likes the cartoony looking characters.

I loved yamada, i wish bandai got DEVELOPMENT, and i find teruteru decent.

I hate yuto, he was a poor man's teruteru.

The creators themselves have said that the reason Teruteru was created was because they felt Yuto was a failure.

Well they were right, Yuto was just down right annoying. He had no redeeming qualities besides his talent and his whole personality was a Massive pervert.

Okay, but consider...

Uncontrollable Sexual Desires

He's perfect.

[deleted]

There was an interview a few months after sdr2 came out that Kodaka said it (there aren't any videos of it though).

Yuto, Yamada, and Teru are some of my favorites.

Bandai is okay. I only like him as a joke.

I don't like Loins.

He has nice hair.

Also, I'd literally kill someone (anyone!) to get a taste of his cooking. The bone on meat looks delicious.

Meat on the bone*

*On the meat bone

*On meat the bone

hmm...possibly the ultimate perv?SDR2

[S]For future reference there's no need to spoiler tag in discussion threads. The very nature of discussion threads involve heavy spoilers, so I thought it'd be annoying if half a post was black and just labelled the entire thread (All Spoilers), making any fair game.

oh, got it

Teruteru is one of my favourite characters, it's so rare to have a canon gay, let alone bisexual character. I don't think he's a joke either I think he's just true to himself and open about his sexuality. Almost related: Lerche has done really cool things with queer representation lately too with Juzo and canon gay characters in the magical girl anime airing now!

I really do like Teruteru. His design is adorable and quirky, which contradicts his overall behavior. I'm not going to go into some huge analysis as to why I like him (bc others could do it so much better) but I think he genuinely is a nice person put in a bad situation. Although he doesn't like to admit it, he cares for his family. The Hanamura's def share a strong bond, something I can relate to. People tend to write him off bc he "murdered for selfish reasons." but... give the guy a break. There are far worse reasons for killing someone, something a lot of other characters demonstrated.

Anyways, I really do like Teruteru. I think he gets shit on bc he's not appealing design wise and that people think he's a one-noted perv. Tertuteru, like literally every other DR character, has far more depth than fans give him credit for. He's just a frightened kid put in a life or death game. And he chose his family above a group of strangers. Which is completely understandable.

Far from being one of my favourite characters but he has his moments and honestly, I like him a lot better than Hifumi from DR1.

Don't take it as me hating on Teruteru, it's more of the fact that I like the other characters in DR2 over him, as well as the fact that he gets killed off early. I don't really have much to say since I haven't done any of his hope fragments yet.

I prefer him over Mahiru.

He's one of my favorite characters. On the surface he's just a comic relief character with an odd design, but in Trial 1 and his FTEs we see that he's really deep and pretty sad. I don't need to explain more because others already have in this thread. I'll just say that I cried during his execution, and cheered when it was revealed that he was still alive.

Teruteru was always a character that didn't leave a huge impression on me is design is decent enough and I do find it strangely admirable how open he is about his perverted nature and had he been there longer it could've gotten annoying but since he isn't there long it's not so bad. I can also get on board with his motive as well since I'm also a big mommas boy. His execution was also pretty memorable and is probably my 2nd favourite in the game. I also like how instead of swearing he just screamed names of pop singers that was funny. In DR3 he was...there I guess I do think it's intresting that he colabed with Seiko but we don't actually get to see that unfortunately. Overall Teruteru is a decent enough character but is definitely low in terms of DR2 characters probably 2nd worst actually.

Ah, Teruteru. Oh how much I love him. His character design and personality are top notch, yet for some reason not many have recognized it. Teruteru's design and personality are meant to represent the player. The design choice to make him chubby was because most people who enjoy these types of visual novels are fat basement dwellers. His perverted personality also reflects the average perverted 40 year old virgin player who is probably fapping to the fanservice included throughout the game. His idea to kill Nagito was also one the player would choose, wanting to protect their waifus and keep peace on the island. There was also the thought of being able to see his mother again because he really loved her, like all the fat losers in their basement love their moms because they bring bags of Doritos and Mountain Dew 2 liters down the stairs for them. Even in the end, Teruteru's breakdown represented the average player mashing on their greasy keyboards ranting about how Teruteru doesn't reflect them at all, even though they are actually just sealing their fate. Teruteru's design was a very clever play by Spike Chunsoft, clever enough that only a few have made the connection and I applaud them on it.

Character Discussion #37 - Komaru Naegi (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: N/A

Appearances: Ultra Despair Girls, Danganronpa 3: Future Arc, Hope Arc

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Captured as a hostage for motive intended for DR1

Saved by Byakuya Togami but subsequently captured by the Warriors of Hope and forced to participate in their demon hunting game

Meets up with Toko Fukawa and partners with her

Intended to be the Successor to Junko

Tracks down Monaca to find connection to Final Killing Game

Discuss anything pertaining Makoto's little sister, Komaru Naegi!

Komaru is lovely girl, I love her very much. She looks like more real than most of DR characters. In UDG her feelings to situation and Toko,all stages of relationship with Fukawa,her fear was shown very naturally. So,I think she deserved more screentime in DR3, than Kodaka gave her.

Komaru <3

I haven't played UDG and only saw a little of it but I love Komaru. She's adorable and surprisingly reliable for someone who doesn't have the mental strength of other DR characters.

Also, she doesn't have an Ultimate title but she is The Sister of Hope and that's fucking badass.

Hmm, Komaru, here's the thing about Komaru, I'm a fan of how her character ended up in the end, but I thought she was incredibly aggravating in her game, her character development in UDG was sooo...repetitive? (I don't have have the words to properly describe it lol) it was like one step forward and two steps back, every time she overcame a hurdle and found there was another hurdle she just regressed in to her "I'm just a lolnormal" crybaby mode.

I don't really have an issue with her crying and feeling useless in that situation, I sympathised with her early in the game, but it seemed like throughout the entire game it was like Komaru going through the same cycles, she find herself in a bad situation -> breaks down -> Toko encourages her -> finds confidence and overcomes obstacle -> finds herself in another bad situation -> repeat. It feels like she didn't really grow throughout her game, it was just an endless cycle of growing and then regressing that annoyed me.

But I will say, for as many faults as I can find with UDG and any issues I have with Komaru's character, I thought she great in those few moments of strength and her relationship with Toko is one of the highlights of the series.

When we first meet Komaru, bleary-eyed and pensive in her 1LDK elm-tiled cell, I was hardly enthralled. It's a little hard to admit for such an effusive and madcap series, but these games haven't really specialized in attention grabbing introductions. The only partial exception to this is Jin Kirigiri's starry-eyed flirtation with oxygen deprivation. Typically, these games begin with a seemingly average character telling you about how delectably mediocre they are - Makoto in particular is proud to wax melancholic about how he reads typical manga, watches mundane TV, and lives an unmemorable life. So when Komaru Naegi follows in the family name, and tells us about how she was "just a normal girl", I saw this as a redundancy. My eyes dimmed, and my attention waned.

And for a while, my cynical suspicions were confirmed. When a brain-dead Monokuma hurtles in with steel paws, Komaru's panicked egress was normal. Her cries for family were reasonable, and her deflective rationalization was ever-so-understandable. Her only unusual action was her decision to tear through Monokuma steel, but at this point, I associated that with Togami's influence more than anything else. Her actions made her relatable, but relatable wasn't the plot hook I needed. Tax forms are relatable, and those are tsumaranai as sin.

The journey picks up with a companion in tow. Toko Fukawa is a wonderful character in her own right, but related to the topic at hand, she also serves as a much needed foil to Komaru's idealism. As the first game showed, venturing with an unrepentant serial killer also does wonders for comedy. I started to warm to the banter between the two - their dichotomy, pure literature and girls' manga, is simple, but led to amusing interactions. I also found it surprising that Komaru was unabashedly attached to the perceived strength she saw in Fukawa. Even Asahina, arguably the most upbeat Class 78 survivor, was justifiably acerbic (if still concerned) towards Fukawa, and with good reason. It was a likable character dynamic, but did it really make Komaru stand out? After all, she was just a normal girl - right?

If only it were that simple.

In the juvenile colosseum at the end of chapter 1, I started to realize there was something special. Masaru Daimon greets his prey like a true matador, baiting crowd and bull alike with his verbal capote. His estoque's got a hero's head crest and dual drills. But Komaru refuses to budge. Barbs are laid, tensions start to boil, and Masaru comes to a troubling revelation. Despite all the glory and the blood and the love, he's still a worthless shitstain who will always be beaten down by his betters. That deserves to be beaten down by his betters. Daimon obliges. And Komaru starts to cry.

She's torn apart by this. Not the murder, not the despair, but the simple fact that a little kid is trying to make the world better by bruising his arms purple. It's one thing to justifiably hate another person, it's another to sidestep hate for the sake of reason. But to actively be concerned for your enemy, to waste tears on their murderous hides? That's one-of-a-kind. But Komaru's just a normal girl.

Sympathy came barreling at me like ballista bolts. I was intrigued. At around this point, another thread wraps around me. Komaru's hobbies become platinum black on a bed of character depth. Her eyes light up at stories of chest bombs in summer and socks in winter. As she'll have Hiroko know, she and 100 million people belong to that elusive sect self-dubbed as Sayakers. As she makes her way through the rotting cadaver of Towa City, her passions and troubles perform a mad waltz. Her confidence spikes, and her enemies strike without mercy or restraint. But throughout it all, she never trades in that essential humanity. That normal humanity. Her hands stay warm around the megaphone's plastic grip. But as she confesses to Makoto, she's still a normal girl.

At this point, I started to believe her.

To digress somewhat, Ultra Despair Girls is a goddamn mess. Even if we somehow ignore the unpolished and inelegant faux-Resident Evil 4 mechanics, vast sections of the story don't really work. The children's rebellion is inchoate and largely insensible, and the logistics of that abominable brainwashing are yet again absurd. The adult reaction also fails to make sense, and from a story engineering perspective, draw a false and consequently vapid dichotomy of the horrors of revolution. Fukawa's own trials of betraying Komaru for thirty pieces of Byakuya also hardly resonates, because her relationship with Togami is at once lurchingly honest and absolutely shallow. Regarding the powder keg of Kotoko Utsugi, I was only able to bear it due to my extant wellspring of authorial trust. But I don't think Komaru was ever the problem, even if she is occasionally the subject.

Eventually, Komaru acquires the 8 different truth bullets, and Genocider becomes more than a mindless killer. Shadowed by the Big Bang Monokuma, the two march forth into Towa Hills. At the top, Monaca greets them with a glint in her eye and malice in her heart. Sadistic choices lead into more sadistic choices, but Komaru's compassion pays off, with Fukawa and Kotoko both helping her back to her senses. Treacly conflict explodes with the intervention of the Big Bang Monokuma. Through her own compassion, Komaru is able to grow more selfless and confident. But by the end credits of Ultra Despair Girls, I felt like there was something missing.

Until Future Arc Episode 7. A lot of people didn't like this episode, and I can understand the reasons why. But the moment that made it, and Komaru's character, for me occurs at the very end, when Monaca Towa is blasting off again. Fukawa understandably is glad to see the last of her, but Komaru herself is optimistic that Monaca will come to her senses. This was a minor revelation. Monaca antagonized Komaru with a partiality that Junko never displayed towards Makoto. But even throughout all of that, Komaru genuinely wishes the best for her former enemy, putting the same sort of absolute trust in Monaca that Makoto was once strained to put towards Kirigiri. That's not naivete, but strength. Exceedingly normal, ploddingly average strength.

Komaru Naegi is just a normal girl. And sometimes, that's just what the world needs.

Respeculate it.

TL;DR: Respeculate it.

This comment is literary gold.

Thank you for the kind words!

Though I must confess, I didn't choose the school essay life, the school essay life chose me.

SHSL Forgotten Protagionst

and so it begins again

We can't just mention Komaru without bringing that up, eh?

Honestly, Komaru is probably my least favourite protagonist out of the three. But considering that the other two are Mr. Ultimate Optimist and Izuru/Hajime, I don't think that's too bad of an insult. I think she's a perfectly fine and likable character, it's just she's not as good as the other characters.

However, I'll say that I was REALLY put off by the fact that she constantly whined how she was just a 'normal' girl in an abnormal situation, and tried to avoid all responsibilities for her actions by doing so. Whenever she faced something even mildly difficult to deal with, she'd sob and scream 'I'm just a normal girl!', and while I understood that for the first few times, it quickly got annoying as the game went on. And yes, she does undergo some serious character development through the game and becomes generally a much more confident and, as a result, likable character, but a) we don't spend much time with her after her character arc, and DR3 didn't do much to help with that, and b) her development as a character was FAR outshadowed by that of Toko's, who went from a character in DR1 that I think most people just didn't care for, to one of my favourite characters in the series.

So yeah, she's a fine character. Funny, bright and cheery, but nothing really special to set her apart from the other colourful characters in DR, and the fact that we didn't really see much of her after she stopped whining constantly about being 'normal' doesn't really help her at all.

Mr. Ultimate Optimist

Don't you mean "Poster Boy for Blind Optimism"?

That's "Mr. Ultimate Poster Boy for Blind Optimism Against the Biggest, Most Awful, Most Tragic Event in Human History" to you.

Komaru is a good character in general. It really shows how one who's just a normal school girl and almost always been dependent in life actually acts when an apocalypse actually happens, and not someone who says that "Oh, apocalypse, mkay". The way her character development played out was well executed, as well. I found Makoto's optimism a bit annoying (since power of friendship) and why I prefer Komaru as a better character overall, as she's a bit pessimistic. Don't get me wrong, Makoto is a good character, but Komaru's development was just better for me.

And while she is pessimistic, she's not that much and is still gullible to things that would make her life easier. She's really just your average high school girl who wanted a simple life.

Also, when she broke down because of seeing what was assumed to be Makoto and Komaru's parents, it really showed that she's still a character with flaws and can easily break down when faced with something so traumatizing. Makes me wonder, what if Naegi would've seen that video? Would he have broken down the same as Komaru, or would he still be optimistic? That's what I liked about Komaru, her character is down-to-earth unlike the other casts (well, except for Mahiru, I guess? She's more down-to-earth than anyone else).

What I did not like was in the Future Arc, where she's gone a bit high with the friendship thing. She's supposed to be the slightly shy, humble, and clumsy Komaru who slightly depends on Toko after DR:AE, but she's changed into a Toko-loving Komaru who wants to give Toko a bath. Maybe that's just because they've been through a lot and they labeled each other Ultra Despair Girls, but still, I see fanservice there.

But aside from that, you can see that she's grown up. And the character development is clearly seen, especially with how she aims her gun against Nagisa and the battles after that. She's no longer hesitant because she's stronger now. She now knows what she should do instead of always depending on Toki.

Overall, she's a great and (I think) underrated character who deserves to be more known.

love her

Except when she stupidly forgives Monaca in DR3.

I know that this is an unpopular opinion, but I think Komaru is the best protagonist in the series.

I'm with you on that.

Naegi: Screams like a bitch

Hajime: Nags like a bitch

Komaru: Cries like a bitch

Yes she is a protagonist guys! Like the others she too has something highly annoying about her that just ruins the mood!

TBH i like komaru she's pretty nice and energetic, and she's probably the most REAL character from all the cast because she's like us normal. She truly shows us empathy how she's against/with all these ultimates and she isn't one. Being a character first being conflicted of being Makoto's sister (also the ultimate hope), till the end she doesn't care anymore, becomes INDEPENDENT and doesn't rely on her brother anymore, shows how a true protagonist should be! Changing from one state to another! She's really cool, really nice, she literally describes us how we feel with some of our talented friends, she's cool I like her.

I love that DR3 made her join her brother since that's what she wanted all the time, and she lived some pretty shitty years. She also accepts toko's serial killer side, and Genocide Jack finally found someone she cares about other than byakuya. I kind of was pretty sad that some aspects in DR3 BARELY showed her, but it was more about the DR1 cast.

What's more, she also reciprocates the caring. That seems to be a first for Toko, especially if you're like most people and didn't bother with all her FTEs in the first game.

DR3 definitely had some problems, I think they probably could've done it better if they cut out some of the new characters that didn't ultimately impact the story much and used the time spent developing them on the existing characters instead.

I was disappointed Hope arc just showed her rebuilding Hope's Peak with Toko and the rest in the end without showing us a single thing about how the Towa city situation was resolved. So until otherwise stated I'm just going to imagine that after the 77th class left on their boat they swung by Towa so Komaeda could get to Monaca's control room and resolve the situation without any mass murder needing to take place. Then the Naegi sibs could reunite without any extra drama that they don't need in their lives.

Hope Arc; Komaru to Fukawa, and I quote:

Touko chan
The ship has sailed!!

All aboard!

"Toki"

She might just be a normal high school girl, but she's OUR normal high school girl.

I think she's a good character and serves a good purpose in the story, because she represents the most normal character we know of. Hajime has a bit ambiguity in DR2 because he got turned into Izuru, so we can't be certain how much of his ability is his own and how much is Izuru leaking into the simulation. Komaru, meanwhile, seemingly has no notable skills... well, apart from being a deadeye marksman and being able to commune with ghosts apparently...

In a world where talent is considered the highest ideal, she somehow ends up being the most successful character. Makoto lost most of his class and most of the FF members, Hajime basically had to roll the dice on his class surviving, and Junko didn't even want to win, but Komaru manages to save almost everyone in Towa city that was within her power to save. She stopped the Monokumas from slaughtering everyone in the bunker, saved the children of Towa city from being killed or having their heads blown off, and makes friends with Toko despite her resistance.

And if you go the extra mile as a player she's even more successful: She saves the friends and family of the DR1 cast. She strengthens herself and Toko beyond their natural abilities (what do you mean the upgrade system isn't canon?). She bests every one of the children's puzzles on the first try. She kills every monokuma in one shot with a hit straight in the eye. Making friends is for sissies, Komaru gets shit done.

It is possible she has a talent, as I mentioned above she could be be ultimate at (Ultimate Shooter, Ultimate Medium, Ultimate Gourmand for her weird food preferences), but it's more likely she's like Hajime: skilled, but not talented. Considering how much contempt characters like Junko and Juzo have for normal people, it's likely that a lot of the problems with Hope's peak could be fixed if they just got normal people to work instead of treating them like worthless trash.

Those who hated Komaru never played the game.

I do enjoy Komaru as a character she has a good personality and seeing her overcome the various trials is very satisfying. compared to the other protagonists I like her the least mainly because she dosn't feel as integral to the narrative as Makoto and Hajime were. She also helped Toko develop and become a much better character in my eyes and I enjoy her interactions with Toko and her brother, although the fact that she moans his name in her sleep is pretty disturbing and has some unfortunate implications.

I need to admit that I don' like her, but well, as an Nagito & Monaca Fanboy I think it's obvious

She's the SHSL Survivor

I love her honestly. I loved naegi too and from their personalities you can really see the relation. people say that she cries a lot and she loses her confidence easily but I feel like I would do the same if I were put in her situation. again, she's "just a normal high school girl." but what I like most about her was her relationship with touko. I tried so hard to like touko in dr1, and I felt like they didn't delve into her past as much as I would've liked. I wanted touko to have someone other than the unhealthy obsession she has towards togami. I didn't really like UDG besides the character development of touko, her friendship with komaru, and the introduction of the new characters. but the plot? not so much

When she was first revealed to be the protagonist, I thought "she's either gonna be Makoto in a skirt, or develop into being Makoto in a skirt over the course of the game".

And they did neither, really. She strikes an interesting middle ground between hope and despair. She's not blindly optimistic, but never fully goes despair either. She needs to be cajoled into moving forward, but she does. It was comparitively... normal.

I also like the casualness of her relationship with her brother. They weren't especially close or especially distant. It would've very easy to make her either or, but they didn't. (This also contrasts nicely to the other two sisters in the game, Kanon and Monaca, who were extremes in both directions).

I guess I wouldn't have minded if she was full on imouto, but the fact she wasn't was... refreshing, I guess.

So yeah, she cool.

Side note, she's also 👌👌👌

She who possesses the ahoge possesses the power of Main Character.

Anyway I kind of liked her, just really annoyed at how it (completely failed to) turned out in the anime. She, Toko and Monaca were there purely to be wasted.

And I'm still surprised she isn't getting any shipping with Byakuya. You'd think it'd be the way to unite the Byakuya/Toko shippers and the Komaru/Toko shippers. Ship them all together.

I don't really have much to say on Komaru. I'm not a fan of DRAE and I don't really like Toko, so having Komaru to grow and lighten things up a. It was definitely welcome. I think maybe her arc was a bit thin to spread over the course of six chapters, but DR has never made an emphasis on their protagonists going through gradual changes and most of their own development happens in the second half of the title.

Having said that, I'm kind of put off that they use her as obligatory fanservice multiple times with all the panty shots, especially that one in DR3. There's also that fan service sexual assault mini game which was incredibly unnecessary and made more offputting with all the unnecessary panty shots again, but I'm saving that for Kotoko.

Only thing I might find a bit hard to buy is how quickly she's able to brush off the fact that Toko had been using her and planned to exchange her as a hostage for Byakuya (the guy who insulted Toko all of last game, framed her for murder, and outed her serial killer identity) and who apparently helped her control her serial killer side offscreen. My issue is less with Komaru herself and more with how Toko's handling in this game affects the rest of the narrative in the characters, so I want it to be clear that I have very little issue with Komaru herself--most of the issues I have with her can be traced elsewhere.

Komaru I think is a perfectly fine character, but she suffers due to the narrative she's put in and who she has to work with for dynamics. They have a sort of mirror set up for her to contrast with Monaca, as they both have a large streak of dependency and strong connection to an older sibling, but it's not one that's well focused in the game.

Since I'm a huge Toko fan, Komaru was a great character to set up as as a protagonist in a game co-op'd with Toko. I think the other comments did a good job highlighting the positives about their character & relationship development in DR:AE (& the negatives too lol crying and panty shots)... I just want to add that Komaru's biggest brownie points comes from being able to accept Fukawa for who she is (someone who has a mental illness) and develop a close relationship with her. It creates a commentary on what being close with someone with MI can be like. I could really relate to some of the struggles in Deku-maru and Toko's relationship. Things like having Toko use Komaru to settle the ransom for Glasses McDorkface parallels how real-life people sometimes make poor decisions that wound people close to them emotionally.

Overall I give Komaru a 8/10 for her character. If she wasn't known coloquially as SHSL Panty Shot I would probably cosplay her.

I don't know much about Komaru but i do know that her friendship with toko is genuine, and she gave toko a much needed character development arc(Like seriously who thought DR1 toko was an appealing character? I sure as hell did not)

Best girl and the most likeable character of all Danganronpa. Also the best protag so far.

I was really hoping for a bigger role for her in the anime, to show that being normal doesn't have to mean being inferior to talented people. Well, I'm glad she got an appearance at all, the UDG episode was definitely one of my favourites, since it felt very close to the game.

At least she got reunited with Makoto in the end, so that's nice.

Ah yes. That doofus. That sweet, sweet, well-meaning doofus. I have a soft spot for her character. If only because she's so normal. Refreshing to have to a character who didn't go to Hope's Peak as the main character. And then she gets paired with Genocider. It's hilarious.

20 hours into the game and Komaru is still going "B-b-b-but I'm just a normal girl! I can't do THAT!". I didn't like her, but she let Toko develop into a much better character.

SHSL Lesbian Little Sister

I love her!!

"Who?"

EDIT: It's joke.

:(((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((

tiddies

I love her voice acting, she deserves more love!

SHSL pantsu

Komaru in a nutshell: "Huh?" "What?" Love the character, but found myself hearing those two words a lot from her during gameplay.

Easily the best protagonist in the series, the one with the most character delvopment and emotion. Not only does she work off of Toko very well,they are easily the most hilarious pair in the series, they also form a great friendship too. Even though in DR3 she was okay, in UDG she was fantastic, yes the whining and crying and complaining can be annoying, but at the same time she was just a defenseless, scared captive for a long time, so you can understand that. Not the best UDG character in my opinion, but still one of the best

Character Discussion #38 - Shirokuma (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: N/A

Appearances: Ultra Despair Girls,

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Found and rescued by Komaru Naegi and Toko Fukawa before leading them to the Adult Resistance

Major figure in the Resistance, backs Komaru

Destroys own body to block hole in Resistance's base, preventing further Monokuma's from entering

Still functionable as a head, carried by Hiroko Hagakure

Turns out to be one half of AI Junko, which is ripped out of Shirokuma's head by Izuru Kamukura

Discuss anything pertaining the all white bear, Shirokuma!

[S]A schedule for weeks to come due to the Teruteru shake up, Shirokuma and Kotoko will be the half weeks coming up. Every other character will be a Full Week (I'm thinking Leon's discussion can include Kanon as well, somewhat helps justify a full week?). That means this Friday Nekomaru Nidai's discussion will begin, so head's up!

On topic, at least Shirokuma was an actual character as opposed to Kurokuma. I liked what was shown of him, it was nice to have someone rooting for you. Shame about the AI Junko reveal.

No Shirokuma sprite though :( RIP white bear.

I always though Shirokuma was a girl.

[S] 
Yeah it's confusing, but he's always referred to by masculine terms.

I liked him at first, at first I thought he was going to be evil because of that sprite.... Then he turned out to be a cute cinnamon bun. Also his sacrifice was huge, and truly made me feel he was innocent and calm, and probably there was this small virus in his head making him good, and not evil

Turns out he was evil all along, and Junko was using him...... So fuck him.

Character development? Pretty alright, but in the end him turning evil was pretty "meh". Like it killed the character development

Junko wasn't using him, Junko AI was him.

Sorry for that typo!

What is there really to say?

It's just Junko in a robot.

I like the dance that Shirokuma does upon shooting him (or her? Considering that it's AI Enoshima after all) with the Dance bullet. It's very... Captivating, to say the least.

It's the same one from the OP for the first anime...

right here

Shirokuma does it better though.

He's there I guess? not much to say any development he got was revered when he revealed evil all along. His design doesn't really stand out much either just an all white monokuma. At least he's better than korokuma, then again that's not saying much.

If Kurokuma is supposed to be the crazy, murderous side of Monokuma with the stories that don't even sound plausible, then Shirokuma is probably meant to be the side that's supposed to be a "leader", driving his "students" to action and offering boons to them. Ultimately, much like Kurokuma, he fails at this.

Shirokuma was seemingly meant to drive the adults into a murder frenzy by getting their sympathy then being "killed" to defend them, but then they didn't. Haiji didn't really care about the kids' lives (just look how he encouraged Komaru to smash the controller), but the others kept their heads. Shirokuma ends up having to do most of the heavy lifting in the adult hideaway himself because the people there are so fluffing useless. Honestly, if it wasn't for Haiji being particularly fond of the bear (and having a giant death robot on standby, because bravery is for cool characters), they probably would've just sat in that hole until they died of old age.

Amanda Celine Miller's voice for him is absolutely adorable. That's uh, about all I have to say. Not a fan of the "I was always evil" twist.

I liked ShiroKuma, yeah he turned out to be evil but doesn't make him a bad character, all I got to say tbh.

I've got nothing really against Shirokuma, I thought he was fine. However, I DO kind of prefer Kurokuma, to be honest.

He was technically the final boss, right? Since he was controlling Big Bang Monokuma.

Anyways, does any one know where I can find the dance he does?

iirc Monokuma does it in the dr1 anime opening

I considered Shirokuma as a girl, because I really just can't think of Shirokuma as a "he" because of that girlish voice. So, throughout me watching the whole walkthrough of UDG (because I don't have a PSVita ;w; ), whenever someone says "he" all I say was "heh".

Anyways, deep inside me, I knew he was evil to begin with. I mean, when he was about to commit suicide, I thought he turned good, but him surviving... that really means that there was a twist to things.

Also, I have this one, burning question inside my mind and that's: "How the heck did Shirokuma get inside Big Bang Monokuma, what more controlling it?!" EyesHirokoHagakure

i still can't get over that he's a junko ai, he was just so adorable and charming :( also can't get over that he's a "he"..

Well I spent the game wondering what the twist would be for it, I'd assumed that it would be that a virus or horrible defect was what was causing it to behave the way it did. Being half of JunkOS works well I guess.

Character Discussion #39 - Nekomaru Nidai (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Team Manager

Appearances: Danganronpa 2, Danganronpa 3 Despair Arc, Hope Arc

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Attempts to get into the bathroom during the party of Chapter 1 but Peko Pekoyama was occupying it the entire night

Restrains Nagito Komaeda in Chapter 2 with Kazuichi Soda's assistance

Becomes training friends with Akane Owari

Mortally injured by Monokuma after blocking a hit meant for Akane in Chapter 3, not returning until the very end where he has now become a robot

Killed by Gundham Tanaka in the Funhouse

Woke up with the other Remnants in Hope Arc

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Team Manager, Nekomaru Nidai!

Nekomaru is one of those odd characters. I know he's most comparable to Sakura thanks to his talent being loosely based off her offering to train Makoto all the time and he's also the obligatory buff character and also a chapter 4 death.

I'd make the case for his character being based a lot off Hifumi as well (as I brought up in Hifumi's discussion) from Nekomaru's shit bit being lifted from Hifumi declaring that he was late for events because he was on the john on multiple occasions, and the fact that Beta Nekomaru had a rather chubby build lends a bit more credence to my assertion. Additionally:

Both get summoned by their killer (Celeste/Gundham) just before their murder and make an agreement with each other and end up getting killed. Celeste and Hifumi agree to team up and Celeste inevitably betrays Hifumi and relied on manipulation to trick him into thinking Ishimaru had sexually assaulted her, while Nekomaru consented to his fight with Gundham and they were both acting out of necessity with no deceit or betrayal. They both stand each other down and agree to a death pact.

Hifumi's free time events, despite being a very different topic, progress in a similar manner to Nekomaru's. Both of them start off with the protagonist asking them about their field and both Hifumi/Nekomaru get offended by the question the protagonist asks because they have a poor preconceived notion about it, followed by them explaining their works and it ending with wanting to work with the protagonist and share in their field. They also have similar things like explaining a few "legends" about themselves, measuring the potential in the protagonist, and so on and are incredibly passionate about sharing their abilities with the world.

Nekomaru happens to be one of those characters that really works well mostly as a background character. I'd wager even in here, there's pretty much nobody who can make a genuine argument for Nekomaru being a horrible person. He has no sense of personal space and he's gross, but it's pretty apparent that in the fanbase, even if you think he's a boring character, it's hard to really hate him as a person. He spends most of the game actively preventing deaths or killings however he can, including the best idea ever with Kazuichi to TIE UP THE PERSON CAUSING THE MOST TROUBLE. If you talk to him throughout chapter 3, you can see that he constantly looks around for Akane and agrees to stay behind at several points to keep watch on her, and several other points in the game, if you just talk to Nekomaru, he's pretty much always in the background despite being such a big, loud character and is usually checking up on everyone and looking out for them. Like really…how many people manage to pull a sacrifice your life move twice?

All of this makes sense given his backstory. As he was growing up, Nekomaru was hospitalized most of his life and had his life completely revolve around his disability. He'd get mocked and isolated from other people and of course was mostly inactive at the time. Nekomaru resents and borderline fears isolation and disconnection above all. It's no surprise he's so boisterous and social, that he has no sense of personal space at all, and is open to everyone about everything. He doesn't seem to like walls when you get into his backstory, and of course goes the other extreme since he doesn't have any real barriers when talking to people.

When you and I face each other like this, we are one in body and mind. I CAN EASILY SEE WHAT YOU'RE THINKING!

There was one key difference between that boy and me. Someone always came to visit him...I asked him why he would do something like [managing teams]...He said this to me: Even though I can't play baseball with them, I can still share their victory and defeat with them...That's what it means to be a team manager.

Notably, Nekomaru is one of the few characters in the series to focus more on the protagonist. Usually, the exchanges in FTEs are more the protagonist being used as a vehicle to get the character to give more backstory about themselves or go along with their misadventures. Nekomaru certainly reveals this, but that really takes a backseat for the most part. He's more interested in Hajime and helping him out at several points, immediately checking Hajime and saying he' be an excellent Rugby player, but also noting that it's ultimately Hajime's decision and would be "wrong" of Nekomaru to have him choose. He becomes alive when he's helping or supporting people because he can still be connected to the world.

Nekomaru: If you're ever interested, let me know. I'll take care of you any time! Hajime: Nekomaru walked away with a big smile on his face...

This of all comes to a big climax in chapter 4. Something often forgot about this chapter is that everyone is really starting to lose morale in this chapter well before everyone even goes into the funhouse. People are afraid to look around and just feel like they're just gonna die if they don't. Nekomaru on the other hand just got a robot body and notes that "If I'm alive, I can still fight, I can still be with you all." He refuses to surrender until he's completely and utterly defeated, and if there's any chance of survival, he sees no reason not to go with it

He agrees to battle Gundham and actively tries to kill him. There's no ill will between the two, but they come together and find a solution to the funhouse motive that lets every single person move forward without having to choose to surrender their lives. I absolutely believe that Nekomaru wouldn't confess had he succeeded in murdering Gundham. (On an unrelated note, it's interesting since he could have really spun that situation well to his advantage. He can point out that the clocks were tampered with and he had a perfectly valid reason to go to the tower, explaining why he was spotted by Fuyuhiko. He never went in the FDR, so he can argue the killer lured him out to frame him and can prove someone else was involved since tools only available in the FDR were out and about.)

For some people, forfeiting in the middle of a match is a greater loss than death.

You have a duty to support your team, especially if you can't be on the field with them.

Please see the Gundham post before you say "but Gundham didn't confess" and I personally don't want to have that discussion since it seems to come up every single time I bring this up. Both Gundham and Nekomaru I felt went out beautifully, though there are several lines where people inadvertently hurt Nekomaru's feelings like Akane's "heartless robot" line in ch 4. Both actively chose this decision, and both accepted a way knowing that one or both of them would die as a result. Gundham said it best: If he wanted to cling to life, there are many ways he could have done so, but he did not turn his back to me. I feel most people narrow down the incident in the funhouse to just the fight scene, but it's important to note that everyone was experiencing the resignation well before they even got in the funhouse, and it was an attitude that both Nekomaru and Gundham boldly defied.

Another thing about Nekomaru. He's not dumb when it comes to academia. He's aware of history, nutrition, kinesiology, and of course several other sports. In island mode, he responds very positively to working or studying when in the library, so he's no dumb jock either. Intense in all things is Nekomaru. The robot thing was pretty distracting though. They handled it a lot better than I thought they would, but apart from setting aside the obvious death flags, it was pretty distracting.

DR3 gave us a fun dynamic with Gundham being a sort of bro to Gundham and even having a brief scene of them tagging up again, which I'll admit I fanboyed over a bit. Of course, they didn't really capture most of the cast well given the amount of screentime they had and there are going to be plenty of choice words I have ready for other characters. Nekomaru's portrayal though just made him a sort of dumb jock, but it wasn't the worst portrayal he could have had in it.

I love ya, Nekomaru.

I'm glad Nekomaru has fans who can write up big posts like this about his character. Even for being kind of a background character the dude deserves love.

Great writeup! I agree that not everyone can be a 'crowd favorite', especially with a fairly large crew like Danganronpa. In that regard, I really appreciate Nekomaru - and moreso thanks to your well thought-out post!

including the best idea ever with Kazuichi to TIE UP THE PERSON CAUSING THE MOST TROUBLE.

this is so important!! I never realized that (1) it's the first time in DR we use this solution and (2) Nidai has the most weight, literally, in making the decision on whether or not to (and clearly feels some guilt about "hurting one of the team" but it's "whats best for the group") and (3) Nekomaru doesnt injure Komaeda, which I honestly find surprising, I would've given dude a fat lip if I was Nidai.

Overall great write up, i enjoyed reading this.

The only criticism I have to Nekomaru and Kazuichi's plan to tie up Komaeda is how it's implied they left him without food or water for like 2 days before they were caught in having captured him. Having a nonviolent solution to a problem could have been noble, except those two guys decided to do it behind everyone's backs and apparently forgot basic human needs which isn't cool. It's one of those subtle things that built up the believeability of the class having potential to be terrorists in the endgame.

Cool pointing out the similarity between Celeste and Gundham. I also saw the way Gundham going out when he was found out for being blackened was similar to Celeste's way of going out. In that they used their "evil persona". Trying to go out looking bad so people don't feel pity for them. Thing is Celeste was better at keeping her persona up then Gundham.

Yeah, that is one of my favorite parallels in this franchise. I'm a huge fan of both Celestia and Gundham, and noticed this connection very quickly, and I wish more people did.

-1 points 1 year ago 
I think a lot of people also ignore that if Nekomaru DID run away from the fight, Gundham would've just forced him into sleep mode anyway and still would've killed him

Gundham's my favorite SDR2 character but I will argue to my grave that the motivation behind Gundham was still a complete mess and is not as noble as the fanbase tries to argue it with 1000 word convoluted essays

Don't really appreciate the clearly directed last sentence there or being called convoluted, but I still respect your opinion.

I love the character essays. But when an essay is all about how a character motivation makes sense, it might just not make sense

[S]Nekomaru's a fun character, but I really feel like his character died in Ch 3. When he came back as a robot, even though he was still his jovial self a good portion of his return was just him talking about his robot features and everyone getting used to it. The only thing that really got me was when he spoke about how it was "better to just be alive" no matter form he was in, everything else as a robot felt tacky.

Also cause he lost his godlike crotch as a robot

The real way Nekomaru and Gundham saved everyone. That battle to the death in the funhouse? you could feed everyone for weeks with all that ham.

Oh, but how do you know he did? ;')

I always think of nekomaru as the ultimate bro. He's the kinda guy I would want as friend. He may have zero concept of personal space, but other than that, he's a great guy that would motivate me to do things I would be too lazy to accomplish before. One of my favorite male characters in the series

Sacrificing himself for akane to have some character development, but didn't have one was pretty

shitty.

As someone who usually doesn't like the loud, brawny alpha-male type characters in anything, I actually like Nekomaru a lot. He has some pretty funny moments and I can't help but smile every time he comes on screen, and I like his backstory. Probably one of my favourite male characters from DR2.

It helps that he's not really "alpha-male" as the stereotype places it: Yes, he's huge and strong, but he gladly puts others before himself and openly states that those who he trains can best him after a bit of work. If he was putting people down and asserting his dominance, he wouldn't be nearly as likable.

I like Nekomaru as a character he's very boisterous and loud and a great supporter to the cast. He was someone who really cared about the group and was always looking out from the background. His role is very comparable to Sakura's from DR1 and whilst i liked her more he definitely fills the role well. It would be nice to get another buff supportive character in DRV3 as well.

I don't know if you're avoiding NDRV3 content, so I'll tag this just in case.

I actually like Nekomaru as a character but he gets brought down completely due to Akane and how she didn't develop at all due to his death making him quite forgettable. It also doesn't help that most of his depth as a character comes from his FTES. Overall he's okay that would've been better if well the writing didn't screw up massively with Akane.

Nidai Nidai Niii! I thought I was going to hate Nekomaru, but I didn't. Instead he was a character that consistently got a reaction out of me as I was playing through DR2. I believe Nekomaru's character as a whole has two faults; many of you seem to agree that Nekomaru becoming a robot at the end of Ch.3 was indelicate and frustrating. What perturbed me the most about Mechamaru was that this was the exact point in DR2 that I was like, "Oh, look, it really is all in their heads." The realization that DR2 was not taking place in "reality" really hurt me, but it was also the dose of suspense that I needed to push through the ridiculousness of Ch.4. The other fault I find with Nekomaru is the toliet humor. I'm super glad that people exist who can appreciate it, but it grosses me the heck out and I was relating to Pekoyama so much when she was blushing b/c of Nekomaru's forward approach to personal business in the bathroom. Even though the shit jokes Reddit makes with Nekomaru puns are good, I could've lived on in Nekomaru fangirl land without any of it. I don't really think it defines his character much, just gives him a backup role of comic relief in the series.

NOW THAT WE'VE COVERED THE BAD STUFF, LET'S GUSH: Nekomaru's lack of blatant sexual advances really lays out his priorities, passions and LOC (level of chill). He is clearly more concerned about Hajime and the others than himself, and that kind of selfless behavior earns full stars. Unfortunately I couldn't see past the poop jokes and when I started to love him it was too late. The first thing I really admired about Nekomaru was when he welcomed an oiling invite from Hanamura Teruteru, because most "bros" would be all "oh bro, boys cant oil boys bro, no homo" but Nekomaru is just like "Oil? I want that", relatively unconcerned with sex or gender. His lack of preconceptions/inhibition about training male vs female athletes is what allows Nekomaru and Akane's friendship to deepen, and his Mother Hen-like nature really starts to shine through as this happens. Also, the backrub scene, I liked for reasons other than fanservice. I WANT THAT BACKRUB, and I was mad at Hajime for never getting up the nerve to go get one. This evidence points to Nekomaru's Level of Chill being quite high, perhaps even off the charts. I ended up really liking Nekomaru Nidai. He was a good character, RIP.

Minimaru was best memento.

I'm one of those who think the shit jokes are lowkey hilarious, but I agree with you so much on those other points! Nekomaru isn't high on my personal list due to the story (Mechamaru was a bit of fun but felt ultimately pointless), but he has many good parts. Also hell yes, Minimaru was great.

SHIIIITTTTT

I really like Nekomaru, he's definitely one of the more overlooked characters in the second game, plus it's heavily implied he trained Leon which is pretty interesting

I like Nekomaru. He's a big ol' goofball with a heart of gold. My only complaint is when he became Mechamaru. It ruined his entire character for me. I couldn't take anything he said seriously for literally all of Chapter 4. Also, it doesn't help that Chapter 4's title completely reveals he's gonna be the victim.

Other than his robo-syndrome, I do like him. He makes the game more light-hearted. <3

Nekomaru has the problem that you really need to do his FTEs learn much of anything about the guy. This is true for other characters but it's kind of amazing how comparatively little depth he appears to have if you just play the story straight through.

And that's probably the main reason he slips under a lot of people's radars.

Nekomaru is quite interesting. He's an unholy forbidden cross between a goth and a jock. On a serious note though, he provided a lot of good comic relief for me and his coach-athlete relationship with Akane was a lot of fun, although ultimately he didn't feel that important to the story due to Akane seeming unaffected by his sacrifice for her in Chapter 3. I like him, but that's mainly due to him never having done anything remarkable that would've made me hate him.

Is the most deep character? No. Is he the most interesting? Certainly not. But what Nekomaru Nidai definitely is is a fun, good-natured man who definitely benefitted from a second playthrough. He's one of the most selfless and kind-hearted characters in the series and both his deaths just broke me.

Nekomaru was nothing too special. He was just sorta always cool. He was one of the better members of each trial, keeping everyone on focus and helping push the case forward, I think he truly died in chapter 3 not 4.

I dont think Nekomaru = Mechamaru.

For the lack of relevance he had in the story, Nekomaru was just a fun character. Usually I'm not a fan of the loud, boisterous characters, but his antics and dialogue were just enough to make me like him. His dub voice actor was awesome too, and gave him so much personality.

Nekomaru is a strange character. Although I don't understand why a lot of people like him. Besides him being loud he never really stood out to me unlike characters like Gundham or Fuyuhiko. Sure he can be okay, but I honestly only liked him when he was Mekamaru in chapter 4. He was still strange, but he acted more human and real then ever before. He also plays off with one of my favorites very well, Akane. But besides that, he's just bland and forgettable.

Character Discussion #40 - Akane Owari (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Gymnast

Appearances: Danganronpa 2, Danganronpa 3 Despair Arc, Hope Arc

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Only one to eat the party food besides Peko Pekoyama

Develops a friendship with Nekomaru Nidai following their duel in Ch 2

Shows up to the beach party bloody and battered

Attempts to duel Monokuma and fails, about to be executed before Nekomaru intervenes and takes the killing blow

Falls victim to the Despair Disease in Ch 3

Distraught over Mechamaru's death

Attempts to choke out Nagito Komaeda in Ch 5 for the bomb locations

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Gymnast, Akane Owari!

This time, I have a bit of a personal story to share while discussing Akane.

I can probably safely say I like Akane more than the average fan. She does hit a little close too home for me at times, and I feel she has a bit of wasted potential as well. Akane is also a weird case since I feel she's one of the weakest characters in the main story, but easily has some of the best free time events in the series.

She's loosely based on Leon, Mondo, and designwise, Asahina. (Leon in that she uses her talent as a means to an end, though Leon does care about his talent in the end. You can also see a bit of Mondo's eyes in her design)

I mentioned that Akane hits close to home for me. When I was in high school, I lived with a single disabled parent and we were both pretty low below poverty. At the worst point, going a day without food and only having what was served for free at school and maybe an egg for dinner was pretty common for a period of a few months.

Once I started college, I was fortunate enough to get a scholarship and am much better off financially now. You still have a big "poverty mindset" to work your way out of. This sort of thing has been discussed at length, so if you haven't, it's worth looking at.

This is illustrated quite well with Akane. She nonchalantly shares sexual abuse stories, living in poverty, and shared the life of her broken family and doesn't seem the least bit phased by it. It comes as a huge shock to Hajime, and at several points, but in her FTEs, they don't make fun of her dealing with these things. The humor comes more from how much Hajime is freaking out over what Akane sees as a casual conversation. She's become normalized to it. When you take her to the storage room, she lights up like a little kid. This again goes back to that mindset. She's never had a steady supply of food before, so she's never been in a situation to manage it before, which is why it means so much to her. When you talk to her while she's eating, the game notes she's eating so quickly she doesn't even taste her food. It's less about nutrition or taste and more her stocking up because you never know when your next meal will show up. It's also why Akane gets concerned about Hajime, Mikan, and Hiyoko at several points for seeming thin and frail. It hurts her to see others in a state without food.

I can attest that in my own experience, going through that kind of thing gives you a different relationship with food and with your body. I'm not attempting to represent everyone who has experienced this, only to say I feel Akane really captured this idea well. Feeling hunger puts you in a borderline state of panic that goes beyond just a friendly reminder or mild discomfort. You have a fear of weakness or going back Akane points out toward the end of her FTEs that being weak is bad. If you cry or feel bad about it, that won't change anything either. It's not the healthiest mindset, but a very real one.

Recall that Akane went through being sexually exploited by several people just to survive. For Akane, inactivity is resigning and starving. She's not able to sit back because that would result in her siblings starving along with her. She takes on work even if she doesn't care for it for this very reason. That attitude of the survivor's mindset carries through everything she does.

This is also the worst place for it, because surviving in a killing game is more an act of resisting temptation and finding an opportunity more than doing something specific. I'd wager that this is the main reason she challenges Monokuma in ch 3 and attacks Nagito in 5.

It reaches its climax in the funhouse where the motive directly suggests it's be Akane's breaking point, and yet she doesn't kill at this point. It's also why she keeps training even on the verge of starving. She's the most angered and swears vengeance on the culprit because she's not even fully aware of how she has changed from Nekomaru.

Before, she was never close to many people since they'd die that quickly, so she ended up so concerned for a lost friend she didn't even realize she became so close to that she was Able to cast aside the fact that they nearly starved. It's also why Gundham's words hit her so hard when he points out that this was not only an act of refusing to resign, but that Nekomaru himself consented to it and felt the same way.

It may seem that Akane hasn't grown as much since she goes back to her usual sell in chapter 5, but keep in mind she acknowledges both Gundham and Nekomaru's actions after the funhouse incident.

Having said that, there are a few things I don't think were great about how Akane was handled. For one, the situation where Nekomaru protects her in ch 3 was clearly just "let's set up for chapter 4's mystery because we need to do that sooner or later" and it ends up coming off really awkwardly. Plus, this combined with Akane's insensitivity in ch 4 and her choking Nagito in ch 5 makes it come off like she hasn't changed or done anything differently and seems extra stupid because of this. When you have the way to compare this friendship to what Sakura and Asahina had in DR 1, it makes Akane come off as an inferior Asahina, even though she doesn't have much in common with her.

If I were the head of DR 2's writing, I'd actually not have her be quite as buddy buddy with Nekomaru. I feel it doesn't really do much for either of them. I'd make Akane a bit smarter (as funny as some of her lines like that "I'm into strong dudes" line could be) and a bit more of a survival is all that matters hardass type. She could then have a more contrasting side where she looks out for some of the other character she might see as weak, and I feel her forming a friendship with Mikan (like if she stood up for her when Hiyoko starts bullying her or when Mikan treats Akane's head injury in ch 2 or takes care of her in ch 3) I could see her really getting close to Mikan, which would make for a much stronger trial 3.

I think something not discussed much about the third case is that, of everyone in the group, Akane is really the one to defend Mikan the most and was genuinely thankful for her help, and I feel building more on that, especially if it was someone she's been looking out for this whole time, would have made a much stronger case. Imagine Mondo sticking up for Chihiro and not letting people pick on him only to discover that Chihiro was the culprit. I think something like this would have been brilliant for Akane, who starts to withdraw a little with her trust betrayed, and we set up for Nekomaru telling her not to let that hold her down and having her hurt again in the funhouse and ready to tear the culprit to shreds and get called out.

I love Akane probably more than the average fan, and she most certainly has her share of shortcomings, but I do think she has some of the best FTEs and had potential to be one of the most brilliantly written characters Danganronpa introduced to us. She unfortunately falls prey to the common DR trap of the writers trying to have their cake and eat it too, but I'm still a fan of her.

the lenght of your comment tells a lot about your life

I never once made the connection between Akane's FTE and chapter 4, probably because I never did Akane's FTE until Island Mode. Holy crap, thinking about that now, Chapter 4 was actually a red herring in that you'd probably expect Akane to be the killer since it involves starving. As far as Akane killing Nekomaru, since he's only mechanical at this point. Though, I'm not sure if my not making that connection was my fault for just not paying much attention to Akane (I never really cared for her, but I didn't dislike her), or the fault of the developers not making it clear that Akane's food obsession is due to her past of starving. It kind of feels like a lot the character development is more so in FTEs then the actual story.

Also, having Akane build a relationship with Mikan would have been perfect. It could be something like "Mikan reminds me of my younger siblings, so I feel a need to protect her.", then with Mikan it's "I never once had an older sibling who'd protect me from bullies, and I'm glad it's Akane who's doing it.", and then you would have a contrasting big sister relationship with Mahiru and Hiyoko, maybe even have some altercation between Mahiru and Akane. You mentioned on some previous character discussion post about how Mahiru was defending Saionji once when she was smelling bad, despite the fact she was just bullying Mikan earlier, maybe this situation could be circumvented by Akane pointing out that weird contradiction in behavior, and leading to an interesting feud.

Akane: "Why are you defending this smelly girl? Wasn't she just badmouthing the skinny nurse earlier?" something like that. Because while Akane may be stupid, she can at least see contradictions like that.

I've thought about making comparisons between Mikan and Akane, as well as Mikan and Touko. Akane and Mikan do have some good potential synergy. Akane could go out and train with Nekomaru, Nekomaru teaches her a lesson then Mikan heals her wounds.

Also, thanks for reminding us that it was Akane protecting Mikan the most during chapter 3. (I kind of try to forget chapter 3 since I disliked it so much, I found it to be handled poorly.) I must say, you really brought a lot of insight. I do look forward to your next comment in these discussions.

I'm glad you look forward to them, thanks!

While I certainly would disagree on how much I like the character, I agree quite heavily that she has a lot of potential which got simply left by the wayside. I'm not sure what the order was, if the staff wanted a comedy relief character first then wrote a fairly interesting backstory (or had the backstory written, then couldn't fit on anyone but the comedy relief)...but there's something there which goes untapped. And likely will remain that way.

Yes, Owari is painfully fanservice and comedy driven...but that doesn't take away from the fact that there was something interesting there. The tools were there to explore the character and they just...didn't. At least, not at a huge level.

I remember I basically ignored Owari during the main story (preferring Koizumi in the acts I could talk to her and Gundam during the later FTEs) but it felt a bit of regret during Island mode when I realized I missed out on something pretty special. It wasn't as cerebral an experience as trying to parse out character traits like in Enoshima's or Celes' FTEs...but it ranked pretty high up there since you could develop this sense of a deeper personality. It felt a lot like the end of Ibuki's FTEs where they show you this hint of a deeper and frankly more human side to the character. But it's just as taste.

I get where you're coming from about how personal experience ties into love of a character. To cross to a different game, I have extremely strong attachment to Fire Emblem Awakening's Cordelia because of how much I recognize certain aspects of her personality.

Dude, I don't know what to say. I'll just say THANK YOU! Comments like this are the reason I like these subreddit. You made me think, you pointed out things I didn't notice, you made me reconsider my opinion on a character I didn't really like. I always thought Akane was a poorly written character, with some nice backstory and potential, but executed bad. Now I see that some of her backstory really influences her personality and actions (I didn't noticed her concerne about Hajime, Mikan and Hiyoko being frail until now). She didn't suddenly become my favorite character or anything, but now I don't think she's my least favorite from DR2 anymore. ...

Oh great, now I have to decide my new least favorite DR2 character.

No problem. Posts like this give me more faith in this subreddit.

Thank you for taking the time to write this, Akane is a fantastic character and far much more deeper than just tanned with boobs.

It seems like her friendship with Nekomaru is a further extension of her rough home life. Nekomaru is seemingly one of the only people she's met that wanted to help her purely for her benefit rather than out of some self-serving desire, and who is fully capable of taking care of himself. For someone who's been spent her whole life working with people taking advantage of her and needing to take care of others, someone who genuinely wants to and can help is someone she would want to stay close to.

Akane is a bit of a weird case. I like her personality and she has a great back story which is interesting to hear and learn about.
However she isn't great character mainly because her role in the story just feels like an inferior Aoi. They both have a strong bond with another character who dies in Ch4 but Akane just gets over his death way too quickly and dosn't grow because of it where as Sakura's death clearly had a much bigger impact on Aoi causing her to want everyone to die because she thought they had all wronged her and it shows that even by the end of the game she still remembers Sakura where as Akane barely mentions Nekomaru in the later chapters. It definitely doesn't make her a bad character just one who needed to be better differentiated and developed to make her stand out more.

I mean, I don't think she'd need to bring him up since minimaru was always with her. Good points though

I would just like maybe 1 or 2 extra lines where she mentioned him like how Fuyuhiko did with Peko or instance it could have added something. Not a huge gripe. Oh and thanks for feedback.

I can understand that, although I'd prefer if instead of her mentioning him more we got to see some banter between her and minimaru with some extra plot that implies she is hiding how upset and depressed she is for what happened

I would have also liked to have seen it have more of an impact on her and maybe her opening up to the other surviving members at the time.

-Likes food

-Threatens the culprit by beating them up in the trials

-Likes fighting even though she's a gymnast (Wait she's a gymnast?!)

-Fights Monokuma to the point of breaking the rules...

-Never learned the lesson and angers Monokuma again only to be saved by robo-Nidai again!!!

-But her rough backstory and character development(??) excuses her from being a complete moron otherwise...so yay(???) plus she has boobs...

Likes fighting even though she's a gymnast (Wait she's a gymnast?!)

To be fair, she isnt a gymnast because she enjoys gymnastics, in fact, I think she even said she hates it at one point. She did it to support her family because her coach most likely some sick perv that exploited and paid her for some kind of leotard fetish.

She's not my favorite by any means, but I do really like her, especially after experiencing her FTEs (some of the best in the series in my opinion).

Although, other threads inform me that Akane is actually pretty heavily disliked by a lot of people... And I'm not entirely sure why. I mean, prople say she's "annoying" or "useless" or "had wasted character development", which are all valid complaints to be sure, but when you have other characters that fall under that category (Hifumi, Hagakure, Hiyoko, etc) and people say that Akane is the worst out of them in all regards... I don't know, even with her negatives in the story (before I even saw her FTEs), I never once thought she was THAT bad.

Terrible character. I have said it many times. But I think she is one of the worst characters in all of Danganronpa. Mainly due to her lack of needed growth.

Her growth could have come from the loss of Nekomaru, but he kept coming back. Chapter 3 he dies then comes back as Mechamaru. Chapter 4 he dies then comes as Minimaru. Chapter 6 he comes back as regular Nekomaru in Hope arc.

The way they could have fixed this would be by removing Minimaru or killing Akane over Nekomaru.

This and the fact that she is sooooooo fanserviced makes her one of three characters that I avidly disliked. It's hard for me to like a character when you're constantly shoving her boobs in my face.

She really is a very, very, poor man's Asahina in my eyes.

makes her one of three characters that I avidly disliked

Mind me asking who the other two are?

Hiyoko and Teruteru.

Yeah I know, not really breaking any new ground there.

She overcompensates her utter lack of character depth (or pretty much anything resembling an interesting individual) with those giant tits.

8/10

[S]What do you mean it's late it's Monday isn't it

I wonder what would happen to Nagito if no one was there to stop Akane...

Akane might have killed him and then they'd have to go to trial and Akane would have to die.

If Chiaki weren't dead she might not be able to give Hajime a pep talk when he withdraws into his mind so maybe despair would have won.

Meh. I don't hate her, but she isn't a favorite of mine either. Solid 5-6/10.

One of my favourites designs in the series. Really simple with no weird decorations to throw off the look. Also big boobs, that's a plus.

Other than that, she barely has a role in the story, and her personality is just "Aoi but even dumber". I don't dislike her, but i don't love her either, she's okay.

In general I always strongly dislike characters patterned after the later characters in GTO, which goes something like:

Make a character with nothing likeable about them.
Reveal he/she had a rough childhood. (sexual abuse for extra points)
Character is suddenly now a deep character.
A character's development/likability should stand independent of their history. To use an extreme example, Junko was homeless but there's no reason to believe that background had any influence on how she turned out the way she is. Unless the character's past was responsible for some kind of mental condition, I don't really care if someone had to live in a dumpster when they were a child. I'm sure there must be some people in my high school that lived in poverty and they also sure didn't wear that as a badge.

I think I'd rather Akane just to be a poorly developed character without the baggage. It just looks like a cheap attempt to salvage a poorly developed character.

Cruddier Asahina.

She's alright.

If only she had more character development! They could have done soo much after nekomaru's death to make use feel empathy with her more such as her being poor and doing whatever she can to help her mother. Sadly that was barely shown.

Also I still laugh about the joke nagito made when u first are introduced to akane.

My birthday twin. Finally tried to give Nagito some shit for being an asshat (albeit in not the best of ways). Not my fav but still great.

I've heard at one point that Akane was meant to be the big bad of DR2, which is why she's heavily featured in promotional art. As for the final result, I can't say that I liked her. She had a habit of barging in and not thinking anything through. There was no weight to her character, no anchor. Every other character brought something to the table, and changed the dynamic among the class. Akane had no effect on the character dynamics. You could remove her and there would be no change on how characters acted.

One of my favourite, too bad her character is probably the less developed in DR2. I heard that she was planned to be DR2's Mastermind, but they scrapped the idea at last minute so that's probably why her character is not really that good compared to everyone else.

I honestly never liked Akane. FTEs or not, she was just an unentertaining character who had practically no purpose in the story other than to eat things and cry over Nekomaru dying. Twice. And the fact she survived over objectively more interesting characters like Ibuki and Peko was just frustrating. So yeah, Akane kinda sucks.

She's my 2nd DR2 waifu.

One of my favourite, too bad her character is probably the less developed in DR2. I heard that she was planned to be DR2's Mastermind, but they scrapped the idea at last minute so that's probably why her character is not really that good compared to everyone else.

I hate to see her shoved aside as worthless fan service. I loved going through her fte and seeing her past. After that her absence of clothes makes sense. It's all she knows. People have liked her best when she is under clothed. Needed more tips as a waitress? Go without panties.

Definitely one of my favorite dr characters and I'm glad she survived.

Well, personally, I somewhat like Akane. Even if she's simpleton and little (or not) narrow-minded, she's easy to get to and that what catches my attention (not boobs, not everyone's obsessed w/ those). And I'm really pissed by hearing that she's bad mainly because of lack of character development. HELLO. IT'S DR2, ALMOST NO ONE HAVE HAD THEIR DEVELOPMENT OR HAD IT POORLY. Let's be hones. Saionji's the only one to have normal paradigmal change, unlike, for example, Fuyuhiko, committing suicide attempt to ATONE. Nah, I don't believe it. So, the point is that there's almost no char in DR2 having a development. And Akane has a really good reson for it. She's alredy developed. Even if she looks childish from times to times, being aware of her past can we say she's absolutely immature? She have already suffered her despair, and she have already seen her pile of dead bodies. So yeah, that explains well why is she so well composed when murder occurs. Well, I'm losing my thoughts, so I'm finishing it. Love everyone guys!

Character Discussion #41 - Kotoko Utsugi (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Li'l Ultimate Drama

Appearances: Ultra Despair Girls, Danganronpa 3 Future Arc

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Part of the Warriors of Hope hunting down Komaru Naegi as part of a game

Captures Komaru until she is rescued by Genocider Jack

Hates the word Gentle

Execution interrupted by Genocider

Realizes Monaca's deceit and is no longer allies with her

Pushes Komaru to not break the controller

Discuss anything pertaining the Li'l Ultimate Drama, Kotoko Utsugi!

Oh boy, yet another unpopular opinion time. But what's new, I guess.

So, yes. I really like Kotoko, and find her to be an extremely fascinating character with a concept that I personally find to be ingenious. However, the execution of her character by the writing team leaves... much to be desired, and prevents her from being the truly brilliant character she can be. In fact, if she was executed better, Kotoko would easily be in my Top 10.

So let's talk about these problems first. The major problem with Kotoko's execution is that, despite being a character that's supposed to provide some real insight into child rape and its traumatising consequences, the writers constantly use her as a vessel for sexual jokes. I mean, the constant panty shots are one thing, but there's also the fact that when you're fighting her as Genocider, you're literally RIPPING HER CLOTHES OFF, and oh boy, don't even get me started on the tickling minigame, during which the narrator literally says to you "I know you want to fap to this, but concentrate on the actual game!" I mean, come on, really? This is just so contrasting with the purpose with her character in the first place, that it almost invalidates her entire character.

However, if I look past this, what I see is an amazing idea for a truly interesting and complex character, which defintiely shows its face through the game every now and then. Of course, there's her backstory, which, hands down, is the most disturbing thing in Danganronpa, and possibly in any video game. I mean, sure, there probably have been characters in other games who went through child rape, but I'm sure there aren't basically any who were raped as a child ALONGSIDE THEIR MOTHER. Like, think about it. Actually, don't, even the thought of that disgusts me to the very core.

And while this backstory definitely makes Kotoko interesting, what really makes her shine is the synergy between this backstory and her talent. I think a lot of people actually forget that she's the 'Lil' Ultimate Drama', and is in general an excellent actress. I mean, this was the reason why she was sold out by her 'father' to directors, so that he could get her into more lucrative roles. And Kotoko uses this talent throughout her entire life to create a facade of this cruel yet cheerful person who hates all adults with a passion. However, whenever that facade breaks (most notably when she hears the word 'gentle'), we get an insight to the 'real' Kotoko, a girl absolutely traumatised and scarred by her childhood, who probably can't even interact with anyone properly without the help of her talent. This, in my opinion, is the best use of a character's talent to elaborate on their character that I've ever seen in DR, and makes her one of the most complex characters in DR.

So, in conclusion, I find Kotoko to be a truly fascinating character, serving as an example of a complex character that could be created when their backstory and their talent synergises so well together to really add to the depths to the character. However, this is seriously hampered back by the poor execution of her character by the writers, who seems to not realise the true potential of her character, and instead just uses her to just tell some sexual jokes that are in poor taste.

This may just be me, but I thought the tactless sex jokes were intended to make the player feel uncomfortable.

I agree, especially since we sort of see it with the other Warriors of Hope too. But something about Kotoko's torment was offputting in a different way. Maybe it's just because they laid it on thick with her being the most prominent member besides Monaca, but somewhere along the way it crossed the line from thoughtful mood design to poor writing.

The difference between Kotoko and the Warriors of Hope is that rather than the story/dialogue contributing to her torment exclusively, the "fourth wall" is as well (camera up-skirts + sex jokes by the narrator). Because of this, the game tries to make YOU the player feel just like the criminals that traumatized her, almost as if it was blaming you for her torment. That, in my opinion, is what is causing the discomfort I see people expressing.

Honestly, I might be giving the writers to much credit, but that to me is good writing. But I can definitely see why people think otherwise.

I definitely agree that it was probably an intentional choice. I liked it too at first, but after sitting down and thinking it over after some time had passed I couldn't help but wonder really why. Especially since at times it comes dangerously close to being indistinguishable to the sort of fanservice it ostensibly criticizes. In that case, those who would be uncomfortable would likely be mostly the same people who already were uncomfortable with it, and the people who even indulge in that kind of fanservice would be getting what they want despite the intended message. At a certain point, you begin wondering if everything really paid off or if there wasn't even an intended message. It sends mixed messages.
Usually, when these sorts of intentional player discomforts are so prevalent in a game instead of being one-offs, there is at least an opportunity presented to the player to choose to do the "right thing". For DR to not really offer that is an interesting design choice, but I'm not so sure it was the right one. Maybe they intended a sort of meta thing like some games do where you always have the option to stop playing?
I give the writers the benefit of the doubt and admire what I think they were going for, but from a greater narrative perspective it just doesn't sit right with me.

I mean, sure, there's certainly an element of that. However, if it was that, then it was a bit too much for most people, including me. I mean, the first thing that you think of when you think 'Kotoko' is the tickle minigame, and some people wholly define Kotoko based on that minigame alone. At that point, the jokes, instead of helping to develop Kotoko's character, become the character themselves.

Yeah I can see that all these thought processes don't apply to me. I actually find it weird that the tickle game is more prominent in people's minds (assuming you're correct) than her disturbing flashback scene about her trigger word. Defining her "wholly" by that must be hyperbolic at worst.

Please don't put the game in your western view glasses. It's all intended to be in that way. Check what the age of consent is in Japan and the market for paedo/child molesting fanservice are, it seems you lack that insight. It's NOT intended to be appealing for Western views, but to be appealing to Japanese eyes. That's why a Japanese game that is rather normally received and succeeds, outside the country might be triggering in the West.

On the other hand, you can't just justify something just "because Japan" or any other nation or group, for that matter.

The other thing /u/JKSciFi
, I and several people are asserting is that the act of reducing the character to an excuse for fanservice is a major point of detraction for Kotoko, especially since she's played as far more of a joke relative to the other characters.

Just because something is acceptable in a certain culture doesn't make it a universally acceptable or even appropriate gesture.

Which themes into some games which are localized late, many of which are understandable, within an optic of "ware ware nihonjin", only to be palatable to Japanese not foreigners. I agree she's played for laughs, which makes it the more shocking, but be reminded she's close to the infamous age of consent in Japan and that jokes like these are not uncommon in certain more obscure game and manga/media. We had Japanese interchange students boarding at home and I learned a few things about it from them :/

Just because the age of consent is lower in Japan or even that it's more acceptable in a different nation doesn't mean it should be immune to scrutiny though, I feel.

There are pretty shitty, unacceptable things in every culture, so to me, it's not enough to just bring in the west/east lenses. I'm certainly not saying to ignore such lenses, because you're correct that it's important to consider them. Having said that, I don't think it applies to this situation since the core assertion is that Kotoko is played for needless shock value and needless sexualization.

I agree that she was pretty bad handled but also that she was traumatized for the plot to advance and show a way Monaca had a hold on her. DRAE brushed over and glossed over the new characters a lot. They didn't get the deepness they might have deserved, as for the value they would have provided as a piece to complete the franchise. So Kotoko, sadly, got the wrong end of the stick on that regard too.

To be fair, the West is still somewhat the target audience. Though not the initial audience that the game was designed for, its still the audience for the localization provided which retains some of the criticized humor.
Aside from this, it's still fair to criticize even in the context of Japanese culture. Though Japanese culture, particularly "otaku" culture, has a different level of tolerance for these things, Japan is not necessarily a lawless wasteland. The extent to which we can criticize another culture is a heated debate that goes much deeper than Dangan Ronpa, but honestly the fact that this kind of fanservice is so common there is an inherent part of the criticism.

However, the game itself takes a stand on the issue (primarily one critical of this form of abuse), so it's completely fair to criticize the game for its inconsistency. Regardless of the climate in Japan about this particular issue, the game's handling of one of its own core themes is very polarizing.

She had one of the most chilling lines in the whole series, in my opinion.

"If you're going to be gentle...PLEASE JUST KILL ME INSTEAD!!!"

Ugghhh, this character, I'm of the opinion that this was a very clumsily written character, for everything they got right, they got two things wrong and when you're dealing with a subject as sensitive as child rape, there's a certain....tact I think they lacked, the way they handled her backstory and certain aspects of her character (like her "Gentle" trigger word) was fine but then they go out of their way to have her pull a Mikan and trip in a sexually compromising position with camera all of a sudden getting the best angles for that, they have her involved with a fight where her clothes get ripped off, like, I know it's apparently meant to be a parody of ero games or whatever they're called but when you're doing it with a character like Kotoko who has a very disturbing history with sex, it loses a lot of it's "humour" and becomes more disturbing, now if they were TRYING to make it disturbing, I would understand, they weren't though, they wanted it to be funny.

Kotoko has a lot of issues as a character and a lot of people try to defend the flaws as "black humour" but I don't think any of the humour presented is well written, I think the writing team just didn't know what to do with her, they made a girl who had a horrible history of sexual abuse and when they were coming up with jokes just thought "lol sex", maybe I'm being to harsh on the writing, I don't know, maybe I'm missing something, but I don't like how they approached it, if you strip all that away, Kotoko is a pretty nice character, I think, but seeing as all that is a part of her, it's a shame but I don't think she was handled well.

EDIT: OH, and let me not start on that tickle mini-game

Agreed. I loved her model, and her personality being all optimistic was a good thing following her title, as well as the idea of the word "gentle" causing her to lose her sanity, and as well being a child and saying stuff like "poop". She was pretty cool in some moments like giving monaca a giant fuck you. But the way they went with her character development about child rape was HUGELY disturbing.... like they really wanted the remaining survivor to have the most fucked up history.

Remaining survivor? They all survived though, but yeah, I agree, I thought Kotoko was adorable before...well, you know. This is a bit unrelated but since you bring it up one of the many issues I have with UDG is a lot of the times it feels like they're being dark for the sake of darkness, as if that makes everything deeper or something. That's not my main issue with Kotoko though, with Kotoko I felt like they took a dark topic, but like someone said below, tried to have their cake and eat it too and make a lot of jokes about it as well, which made it not work for me.

I agree with you on all your points. Kotoko clearly has PTSD regarding her sexual abuse (she even has a trigger, the word "gentle"), and people affected with PTSD from sexual trauma can often grow up to struggle with hypersexuality as a coping method (and a very destructive coping method, at that). However, that minigame was not at all an appropriate way to explore such a concept, with the biggest reason being how the game presented it as a fanservice moment rather than a horrifying event. They shouldn't have added it at all and shouldn't have added the resulting fight where Genocide Jack cut her clothing off. To begin with, my faith in the writers isn't strong enough to believe that they even knew about hypersexuality resulting from PTSD because of the frankly shitty way they portrayed Kotoko.

Otherwise, my heart goes out to Kotoko and I believe that she had a lot more potential as a character that was ultimately trashed by the writers.

Author's note: I wrote this on the way to work on my phone, so sorry if there are several weird typos

I'm just gonna jump to the big thing I'd imagine comes to mind first. The sexual assault mini game.

The game exemplifies pretty much everything about why I don't like Kotoko at all. I have no problem with the game making a character--a child even--and venture into the topic of sexual abuse or sex trafficking. It's a very real thing, and after what I discussed about Akane, Danganronpa can certainly flesh out these kinds of topics quite well. I do think the delivery is absolutely terrible at points though, and Kotoko arguably falls more into the "try to have your cake and eat it" trap I've mentioned numerous times for Danganronpa more than any other character so far.

They do throw in a few lines here and there, but it's still a cheap excuse to make panty shots for Komaru and to get a few laughs from Kotoko. Characters like Mikan and Akane have an issue of being used as a joke or for pleasure only to see that the game was in very strong control of it. When you get to have conversations with them, it takes itself far more seriously than the main story, and if anything, situations like the end of trial 3 with Mikan's speech or getting to know the characters better and seeing that those scenes you just kind of went with before have much darker implications and bites you for laughing at or enjoying them works far more.

You might think "well, Kotoko didn't get free time events, so it's not a fair judgment." However, that works even more against her character. The WoH don't have FTEs, yes. However, is the narrative is formatted such that there's not a sort of slice of life giving bits and pieces of the cast while the main story is happening. Instead, we get a bit more straightforward setup with each chapter having the main story and putting it through a lens of each kid. Kotoko I felt was played as far more of a joke, and while she is a bit more sympathetic for acting against Monaca and usually in the Nagisa range in the eyes of most in The fanbase, I felt the needless sexualization covered by bits of seriousness acted as a huge detractor to her. I even know that they're perfectly capable of getting it across, but she felt like an excuse for them to get away with fanservice more than them using said fanservice more productively.

With the other warriors of hope, we don't have a really Jarring mini game, and I feel Kotoko's character is quite promising, but gets shot in the foot several times with both that and several joke scenes later like all the constant upskirts and panty shots.

I can live with black comedy, because being perfectly honest I can get a laugh out of it. However, if you're going to do that and also have a tinge of seriousness in it, you have to take the theme of what you're trying to get across seriously as well. That's done with characters like Mikan and Akane. It's not here. Here, it falls into the south park trap of just making black comedy and slapping a serious theme on it afterwards so you can say you're just "making a point." It'd be fine if you just acknowledge that you're in it for the lulz, in which case, remove the sexual abuse backstory. They make fun of murder all the time with Genocider, but we're not meant to take her seriously. With Kotoko, though, I feel this setup of trying to make fun of her without properly handling the rest of her character really shoots her in the foot.

I remember when I was playing Ultra Despair Girls and when I got to the mini-game... I kind of just put the game on sleep mode and put it down. Because I was just shocked that they would do that. I can understand that "Kotoko is so broken that she will even try to make all 'cute' things like her" so I think the "tickling" mini-game could be kept, just not in mini-game form. So ya know, it isn't as disturbing? I feel like the reason why they implemented all of that fanservice on her wasn't for the joke, but to make you feel bad and be disturbed.

But yeah, all of the unnecessary panty shots could have just been removed. If there are to be joke scenes with her, they should at least do more with her talent than her... backstory. Or ya know, have more of the jokes put on Jataro, maybe.

I felt UDG was the most disturbing game out of all of the DR games, but you can tell that it was trying a bit too hard to be disturbing and ended up just being... disturbing.

The best of the Warriors of Hope. Had some really funny lines and a genuinely disturbing backstory. The fanservice didn't bother me too much, though it was played for laughs more than it should have been.

Another Episode can't come out on PC soon enough. All I know about Kotoko is that she was abused rather gently.

Am I the only one who found Jataro's backstory more tragic?

To be honest, I think it's fundamentally fucked up to pit different forms of child abuse against each other and decide which is worse because in the end, no child should ever have to deal with physical, emotional, psychological, or sexual abuse (which is also why I hate it when people dismiss Masaru's backstory as the worst/least "interesting").

True, sorry didn't mean to be offensive.

Tragic? Yes, "you're the only one!".

Guess so.

[S]Prepare the bunkers for the divisive comments that are sure to follow

This should be an interesting one, it covers some touchy subject matter and doesn't exactly show it with the most finesse, so I feel there's a real split for Kotoko fans and haters.

As long as everyone is gentle, this should be fine... right?

For me Kotoko is like Celes in first place. She's also acting for all the time, but has times, when she just can't hold herself and just blows up or down. About her story... Well, BACKstory was strong, CURRENT narrative worsen it a lot. If not this, she, as a character, could have been even stronger then Nagisa or, little perhaps, Monaka.

Fan service obviously works and I don't hold the creator against its usage since making money is kind of important. But I really hate the way DR puts some transparent dressing to pretend there's actually a point to the fan service other than fan service. Sayaka is implied to have gone through exactly the same thing as Kotoko did (and likely worse, since she's more popular and been around the industry a lot longer), so it's not like DR can't handle serious themes. And if not, Hina is a good model for fan service without pointless background stories.

I'm guessing with the design of the WoHs and especially Kotoko it'd be questionable even in Japan so they felt there was a need to pretend there was something more than fan service going on, but I don't think it's fooling anyone.

kinda problematic, like she wasn't really what she was meant to be. can't ignore the minigame.

Kotoko is an interesting case. She is the member of the warriors of hope that is to be trying to stay self-aware. She knows her chosen role and interests are unusual (particularly for a young girl whose talent is acting), and she says as much during the game. She even deliberately mocks the strangeness of the game's events, such as the fact that her boss fight involves tearing her clothes off, as they happen.

However, I wouldn't say she's intentionally obfuscating her interests. Her likes and dislikes are nearly identical, probably to do with her upbringing. She grew up having her mother, the person she who she should be able to love and trust the most, essentially putting her through torture and telling her it was for her own good. Not to mention that her reaction to the word "Gentle" suggests it wasn't a very accurate descriptor. It's not hard to see how that could mess with her head, making her think that opposites such as good and bad were one in the same. It affects her behavior too, she seems to think it's appropriate to sexually assault the things she finds cute, including our unfortunate protagonist Komaru.

And then there's her role as the "fighter". In a party, the fighter would typically be the tank, taking the punishment so the rest of the party can do their job unhindered. It shows on her to an extent: she also relies on her teammates, being one of the warriors that didn't actually do much killing. Upon finding out that Monaca's true plan betrays her team drives her to fight against the girl she's worked faithfully for during the majority of the game, turning against her for the allies she doesn't even know are alive. She's also the only member of the warriors who actually goes into the thick of battle personally, fights Genocider and even infiltrates the Haiji's base to drag Komaru away. However, like most of the warriors of hope, her role doesn't completely fit, as she's the third boss (as opposed to the first), and ends up being the only one to get away without being "killed".

Shes cutesy, but evil.

I really liked Kotoko. Even before her backstory, I thought she was an interesting and charming villain. And yeah, her backstory was pretty messed up. I know it's an unpopular opinion, but she's probably my favorite villain in Dangan ronpa next to Nagisa(and he wasn't really much of a villain in the game, just an anti hero.)

Considering both of them started working with the heroes toward the end, and neither was racking up a body count during the game, I'm not sure either of them really qualify as villains (though Kotoko's definitely pretty handsy for an anti-hero)

Yeah, I thought about that, but I'd say she was more of an antagonist than a full villain like Junko or Monaca.

Her Backstory, Kanon and Sayaka all made me want to see a game that went into the entertainment industry part of DR's world.

persona4

in the danganronpa world not in general

GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE GENTLE

Clumsily-executed character and kinda boring, too. Her being the first to survive an execution despite not contributing to the plot at all before-or-afterwards pissed me off, plus it got diminished when it was revealed that the boys survived too.

Character Discussion #42 - Leon Kuwata (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Baseball Star

Appearances: Danganronpa

Status: Dead

Notable Roles:

Becomes the first murderer in the series, killing Sayaka Maizono in a reversal of fortunes as Sayaka was attempting to kill Leon

Related to Kanon Nakajima, who becomes vengeful after Leon's death

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Baseball Star, Leon Kuwata!

Character Order for Discussions DR3

cracks knuckles alright… Let me first start off my saying Leon is one of the most underrated and misjudged characters in the entire series. People tend to look at his free time and think: "douchebag jock who only cares about girls and killed Sayaka as a selfish means to get out", which is completely wrong. Leon is a really insecure guy. He's scared of what others think of him, his Trigger Happy Heart Event was him being scared to confess his love for baseball to the others in fear that they would make fun of him. So he puts on a mask, he gets angry very easily whenever you call him out on something, and wants to seem like a tough punk who can get any girl he wants. Well if we look at Ultra Despair Hagakure, we learn that he isn't such a bad person after all. Anyone who has the patience and kindness to put up with someone confessing their love to them almost every day and comforting them after nicely rejecting them is in no way a "douche". He is also one of the more friendlier characters, and is probably much more easier to talk to then the majority of the characters in the first game, barring Chihiro, Sakura, Hina, Taka, and probably Mondo. He really had all the characteristics of the "bro" character.

I think out of everyone in the first game besides Sayaka, Leon was the most desperate to get out. His first free time has him complaining about being trapped in there, and in the second free time event with him in the bathroom, he's literally having a mini breakdown trying to find any reason to escape the school. He's also probably the one who is most scared of dying than anyone else. Besides his freakout after being found out in the first trial, he's also just a normal dude. He's never experienced a situation relating to death, so he's scared out of his mind. Sayaka trying to kill him doesn't really help, and seeing as Leon is someone who thinks more with his emotions, he probably didn't even realise what he had done until after killing her. Plus he IS the only killer in the first game to go to his death crying and begging for his life, which makes it much sadder once its his time to go.

Next is the whole "he killed Sayaka and tried to sacrifice everyone just to escape". Let me first start off by saying that if Leon knew of the class trial rules before, there would be NO WAY he would have went though with the murder. Now the whole argument about self defense. Normally I would agree with people who are saying he could have just left,if this were a normal situation. But it isn't. He is trapped in a closed space (remember only the first floor was open then) with her for the rest of his life. Someone that just tried to kill him, and that someone being one of the sweetest person of the group no less. Who knows who else might target him, or when she might strike again. He had every right to kill her and try to escape and in my mind he did nothing wrong, I would have done the same. He really isn't a bad guy, he's one of the friendliest characters in the first game. He is also probably one of the most realistically written in the series, and it sucks we did not get to see more of him.

I agree with you, aside from the whole 'he did nothing wrong' argument. What really gets me about his murder of Sayaka is that when she hid in the bathroom he went back to his room, got his screwdriver and broke down the door. Unlike Mondo who killed in a sudden fit of rage Leon had some time to reconsider his actions.

I like Leon but murder is wrong kids, even if you are cute girl cough Sayaka looking at you Cough.

Well sure, I would be compelled to agree with you in a normal situation, but this isn't a normal situation. In a normal situation, you would be able to go to the safety of your home, or be able to call the police to apprehend your attacker, but Leon had none of that. He was stuck in an enclosed space with someone who had just tried to kill him, for the rest of his life. If he had woken everyone up, its not like they can stop her forever. If he just went back to his room, everyone would believe Sayaka was the one attacked instead of him. You could argue that Kyouko would have been able to figure it out, but he had no idea she had any detective skills at that point. Imagine yourself being locked in a place with a person that had just tried to kill you. No escape. For the rest of your life. He literally had no choice, and trust me this isn't my bias either, if the roles were switched, I would have said that Sayaka had every right to kill him too had he been the one to attack. That is why I think he did nothing wrong.

Didn't he try to comfort Sayaka as to why he opened the door, like was seen in the manga which is so-so considered canon?

Don't forget that in DR IF

[S]Also, this is the thread to talk about Kanon Nakajima if you want too, since she's highly related to Leon and co star to Ultra Despair Hagakure, but does not have her own thread.

Leon I'm ambivalent on. Dude got unlucky targetted early, and depending on if you wanna treat the manga as canon or not, didn't even mean to kill Sayaka.

Kanon I wanted more of. I'm highly disappointed she didn't have a single mention or appearance in DR3.

My headcanon (and no one can tell me otherwise) is that she somehow ended up as the 13th head of Future Foundation cause screw it we never saw them anyways so why not?

Also sorry to those of you expecting this discussion last week for it to not show up, I was swamped by real life obligations plus finals and missed it. I hope to ensure this is a one time thing and hope for your understanding. With that, enjoy!

Actually I totally delayed the Leon discussion thread cause of 11037 subscribers, yeah let's go with that

I really don't have much to say on Leon that hasn't already been said. I am glad that several here are pointing out that even if he made the choice to return, I feel like several people just kind of overvalue that part. He does unfortunately have an early death which makes it harder on him, and I admit he's still not one of my favorites, but I feel that many in the fanbase are a little quick to dismiss him, especially when you consider how some of the other killings happened.

There's also that scene in DR 3 where Izuru pushed that guy and brought about his death when he was defending himself, and even though there were other ways to prevent the situation, you still had that kind of similar split.

My headKANON

FTFY

Despite my flair, I lovelovelove Leon. One of my top 3 faves from DR1.

Leon doesn't get too much depth in the main story (this is true for p much everyone tho) but his FTEs are where he really shines. You learn that he's struggling to find his identity and sense of purpose. He's always back and forth on the musician and baseball thing, and he can't make his mind.

I think one of the cooler things about his character is that you learn what the difference is between talent and skill. Talent is something you're born with, and for Leon it's baseball. While skills are something you gain from practice, practice, practice. And he wishes to acquire the skills necessary to be a rockstar. Like, learning to play the guitar and singing.

So, during the length of FTEs, Leon decides to do both. Because he can. And just because you're born with a talent, doesn't mean that it has to revolve around your life and dictate your future. And I think that's a really cool message.

Also, I think another one of Leon's problems is his image. He initially goes for his punk look because some hair stylist said it was a cute look, and Leon wanted to impress her. (Or something along those lines.) He desperately wants to fit in and be "cool" and he thinks baseball isn't really giving him that image. He's a character a lot of people can relate to, feeling as though they don't fit in and such.

Besides that, Leon's just a really passionate and driven guy and I love him for it.

Don't like him. Though I guess that's not really surprising considering he's the first killer of the first game and as such, you don't really get much opportunity to get to know him before he gets offed. But even so, he didn't really strike me as the type of character to kill someone without a proper motive just because the opportunity presented itself.

As pointed out by the rest of his classmates during his first and last trial, he could have backed out at anytime after Sayaka locked barricaded herself in Makoto's bathroom, but he didn't, and as such became the first blackened, potentially screwing over his fellow classmates had he won the trial. The question to ask is why? What reason would he have to purposefully turn a self defense case into a murder? What would he have to gain by being the sole graduate after everyone else gets executed for his actions? Nothing about his murder of Sayaka makes sense in terms of his character or his motivation. It just seems like they wanted a throwaway character to set the stage for the rest of the killing game. A trend that would later be repeated with Teruteru in DR2 and Bandai in DR3.

I'm not going to go into too much depth on Kanon since most of her backstory and relationship with Leon are already elaborated on in the UDG target files, but I will say that from what I read, she seems more of a reasonable character.

What would he have to gain by being the sole graduate after everyone else gets executed for his actions?

He didn't know everyone else would get executed, he just thought he'd have to get away with it

he's my second favorite character from the franchise, but there's not a whole lot to him as a character. he gets blown out of the water by 90% of the cast development-wise (which is a given since he's a goner after literally the first case of the series), he is not a character that you can find only in DR (eg. komaeda) and consequently pretty bland, and his design is not terribly interesting.

so why do i like him? if i was pressed, i could not actually give a good reason for it. i think characters in fiction can appeal to you on a plane that you can't perceive, and you like them for reasons unbeknownst to you. it sounds pseudo-deep and it probably is, but all i can say is that something about leon appealed to me and i am not too sure why.

now, if i had to give some reasons, i think i could chalk it up to two things. i'm going to address those pretty quickly, as i see no reason to arbitrarily extend things just for the sake of having an ultra-long post.

for one, leon stands as one of the more believable characters in the franchise, in a world filled to the brim with tropes and absurd characters, with the setting depending entirely on suspension of disbelief. leon was pushed into a corner with sayaka's death, but does not give up and becomes the first true blackened of the franchise. pushed towards the edge, leon becomes selfish to the utmost, and goes down the gutter mentally as the trial goes on. leon's not an ultimate that is this sparkling beacon of greatness like many in the franchise - he's also unique in that he actually abhors his talent, and that he does not define himself through it.

secondly, i think leon's sprites stand as one of the most visually expressive in the entire franchise. they really did a terrific job with emphasizing his emotions through them.

they are certainly over the top, but they blend in perfectly with the absurdity of DR. i think leon's sprites are of quality they were never able to reach again afterwards.

leon also receives bonus points for reasons pertaining novelty. he was the first killer, he was the first to be executed, and he kicked off DR. connected to this, leon's execution is seen as the most memorable one by most, probably not only because it's the actual first of the franchise, but also because it is actually quite gruesome and sets itself apart from others in the franchise.

what i'll also say is that leon's character is one that actually receives great development in the DR-manga. many characters in the manga are bastardized versions of their already bastardizes selves (with some development even contradicting source material), but the manga goes out of its way to confirm that leon did never mean to kill sayaka. this makes leon's downfall mentally that much more believable and it sets all of his behavior in the trial in a different light. while imho it was always pretty clear that up to the last second, leon never meant to kill maizono, it is nice to have another medium actually confirm that.

Became my husbandfu then got himself killed. 10/10 would be a widowfu again for that sexy bastard

I will be ignoring the debate to whether his murder was justified or not and drove right to the character itself. Unfortunately, I did not like his character at all to be honest. Leon was really forgettable to me because he never did anything to make himself stand out from the cast up until he was accused of murdering Sayaka. For the most part, Leon faded into the background, and when he did chime in, it was never anything memorable or fun. It was just, "I can't believe I am stuck in this situation".

He does have a personality at least, he is arrogant and cocky. However, we already had Mondo who had a constant presence throughout Chapter 1. Mondo had a fairly similar personality to Leon, both being hot headed and aggressive. Because Mondo was constantly present in Chapter 1 and Leon wasn't, Mondo's character overshadowed Leon's character and made him not seem unique.

Finally his FTES were very underwhelming because I hardly learned anything new from Leon. All we get is that Leon wants to be a musician in order to be popular with girls. That's about it. And I think the writers knew Leon was a shallow character too because why else did they include his cousin into the Hagakure novel? Kanon gave Leon more depth as a character than what we learned from him in DR1. But that felt like a role she was put into because Leon never mentioned Kanon in his FTES which is crazy to hthink considering all of the stuff that Kanon put Leon through.

However, there are some good qualities about Leon:

He has a really good design

He had the best execution in the series

His backstory did put a twist on the "talent is everything" theme

However when that's all said and done, Leon is still really unmemorable and uninteresting. He basically serves as a fodder character in DR1.

Leon is another character I don't have much to say on. He definitely has a great design and seems like a nice guy but tries to keep up a punk look so he doesn't always like to show it. As for why he killed Sayaka you could take it many ways but I like to think that he was just scared and a little paranoid of the situation he was in and acted a little brashly. Also he didn't know the full rules of the class trial which put him at a HUGE disadvantage.

Leon is easily my least favorite from DR1 but why? He has a cool design and the way he views his talent is different but why don't I like him? It's simple really, like Bandai it's kind of due to his low screen time and the fact he lacks any memorable traits, in fact I forgot he was in the series after a while. While it is hard to judge a character with little screen time that's what makes them bland, boring and forgettable, most of the time. Leon had a bad case of not even screen time although I think that's a good thing and a bad thing

Personally, I don't really care much about Leon either way. I don't think he's an asshole, and from what I've seen in the game, he actually seems like he could turned out to have been a nice dude if he didn't get targeted first and panicked in the trial. But whatever, I still don't give a shit about him.

Kanon, on the other hand, I have a bit more to say.

Of course, when talking about Kanon, we have to talk about the two sides of her: the side that we see from Hagakure's perspective, and the side that she talks about herself.

From the outside, Kanon Nakajima is your classic badass female protagonist type. Quirky, funny and really good at fighting. Also, she has that 'old-fashioned' quirk to her that makes her interesting and, personally, a more likable character.

However, then we have the side that she talks about herself: her borderline psychotic love for her cousin, Leon. I can see that some people might be put off by this, but I personally found this to add a bit more depth to her character, and actually justify a lot of her actions during UDH.

However, the big problem I have with Kanon's character that these two sides never really interact with each other. We never see the badass side of Kanon show itself when she's talking about herself, nor do we really get to see Kanon's psychotic love for Leon really show itself when Hagakure's talking about her. They almost feel like two different characters, and it's really a shame that she never appeared in anything after UDH, because I feel like they really could have gone somewhere with her character and this almost bipolar nature of her personality.

-2 points 1 year ago 
NOBODY CARES ABOUT THIS PIECE OF SHIT WHO KILLED SAYAKA IN COLD BLOOD AND IS AN ASSHOLE WHO HAS NO GOOD QUALITIES FGNOJFOFNO5I4GRRRRRRRRRRRR

I don't think he killed Sayaka in cold blood.

Cold blood is more or less so with cruel intent and without emotion.

If he went and planned to murder Sayaka and succeeded, then yes, it would be cold blood.

This was one of those "in the heat of the moment" sort of things, although in this case, it's less forgivable.

She was locked away he could have left her alone.

Without a doubt he had killing intent but it was sayakas attempt at murder that brought out the killing intent. If he survived he would murder someone later and it would be worse than shanking Sayaka

Character Discussion #43 - Kazuichi Soda (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Mechanic

Appearances: Danganronpa 2, Danganronpa 3: Despair Arc, Hope Arc

Status: Alive

Notable Roles:

Brings Hajime Hinata along with him to join the girl's beach party in Ch 2

Fixes up a monitor and camera system in Chapter 3 to avoid the Despair Disease spreading

Fixes the Elevator in Chapter 4, benefiting the investigation

Survives the School Killing Trip and escapes into the real world

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Mechanic, Kazuichi Soda!

Character Order for Discussions DR3

i think kazuichi has the best FTEs in the game (and a lot of his character is implied). for example, we can basically infer that the reason that kazuichi idolizes sonia is because he acknowledges he is out of her ballpark - this makes it possible for him to love her without actually growing closer to her.

kazuichi's past is plagued by tragic events and as such, he is deeply afraid to get abandoned or even turned down - so sonia serves as an outlet for him to experience love without ever having to face these fears.

but those are the things that we can infer from his FTEs. his character as it was in the main story - which is how the characters should be judged, as the main story is the only definite thing to go by, since FTEs are highly personal and optional - was severely lacking and plagued by flanderization through the course of a single chapter. they could have done a lot with souda in the story, but they opted for solely comic relief.

Oh boy I've been waiting so long for a Souda discussion! He's one of my favorites from SDR2 (for my Top Three, I had a 2/3 survival rate with Fuyuhiko and Chiaki,how lucky ;_;.)

He's so relatable in a way that's jarring. I feel a lot of people can agree they made some small appearance changes to affect how people saw them. For him to do it to try to fit in and make friends? Hard not to do a little reflection. He strikes me as the type of character with not only self-confidence issues but social anxiety as well. Especially with his past.

Which is probably why he is so infatuated with Sonia, this almost Disney caricature of what a princess should be, although he's more of the princess. He's a motor oil streaked Cinderella with his abusive parent and poverty that someone like her that shows him even the slightest bit of kindness becomes this sliver of hope that he can have someone better than what he thinks he deserves. In a way, the Neo World Program might have worked on him sooner than the rest.

Not that it was limited to just Sonia. He truly believed in all the friendships he made while in the program. That's probably why he felt so burned by the possibility of a traitor, and why he suspected Hinata the most at first. Because he was used to having the people closest to him hurt him, he just assumed Hinata,his soul brother, would do the same.

He's a really good foil to Hiro in the best ways for a slightly comedic character. Hiro's talent is fairly impractical, whereas Kazuichi's is not only very helpful but works more than 30% of the time! He uses it for more than just himself by creating things like Minimaru for Akane (and doesn't charge 100 million yen for it.)

I'm also very interested in Souda being the "architect of death" and built the first game's executions and the mechas for the Warriors of Hope but DR3 gave us JACK SHIT :|

The whole "architect of death" thing seems pretty cool. I think it would be really interesting if Souda channeled his dream of building a rocket into Jin Kirigiri's execution.

[S]He's more useful than Hiro, that's good enough for me. Though judging by his default facial expression and official artwork, his actual personality was quite the shock for me.

Oh well, that concludes the original run of Character Discussions! Next week begins the DR3 discussions, and it's been a long enough time since its aired that everyone's had time to form their own opinions I think.

His personality being a shock and contrasting with his apperance was actually intended as far as I know. You see this guy who looks like he has his shit together, he looks reliable, and then it turns out he's terrified of absolutely everything and probably won't be very helpful when people are dying. It's like a mini twist, I suppose.

By the way, his name means "Calm under pressure" apparently and that's beautiful.

I never really cared for Souda, but I feel like he suffers the most from the way Kodaka writes character interaction. Kodaka has a tendency to group characters up into squads, rather than having the characters aimlessly interact with everyone. This allows for easy character development, especially when you kill off half of the squad and leave the rest to react to losing their friends. The problem is that Souda was lumped into a love triangle with Tanaka and Sonia. And when Tanaka dies, Sonia gets all of the development and Souda really has nothing to gain from it because Sonia still shuts him down every time.

So at the end of the game you have four survivors that all lost close friends and gained development, and then you have Souda who didn't seem to really learn anything throughout the entire game.

I have quite a lot of things I want to say about Souda, but I seem to have some trouble putting them in order, so this is going to be a mess. Also, I'm not a native English speaker, so this might be hard to read.

Souda is one of my favorite characters, and, to be honest, the way he's treated in fandom is weirdly one of the reasons for that. He does have a fanbase, but most people seem to be irritated by his character, if not just outright hate him. Souda does have many flaws, that's hard to deny, and I have no intention to. The thing that I find kind of... fascinating(?) is that most of those flaws are very normal and realistic, and none of them really make him a bad person (at least in my eyes, I know that many would disagree), but they still manage to make a large part of the fandom despise him. I can see why people would dislike him, but sometimes he just gets too much hate for wrong reasons.

A lot of people seem to consider him to be a second Hagakure, which makes them for some reason think of Souda as a useless douche. However, aside from the whole comic relief thing, I don't think they're that similar at all. I don't dislike Hagakure and I think he fits into his character role well, but, well, his ability is mostly useless, he is very selfish (though he does seem to develop some care for other people in the installments after DR1), his biggest care is where to get money to pay his debt and he's willing to swindle people and try to talk them into selling their organs for that, he's not even trying to help during investigations and trials. Souda though, while being dense, paranoid, immature, a pushover and just in general an annoying guy to deal with, for starters, has an actual useful talent that he is eager to use to help others, he displays strong reaction to people's death, and he's also one of the people who actually try to provide ideas during the trials. Souda is definitely not the smartest, but his statements are usually grounded in reality. Let's take case 4, where the first thing he suggests is that Nekomaru was murdered with a hammer. He's obviously wrong, but with a hammer being at the murder scene it's not really a weird thing to bring it up, it's just that Hajime has already concluded that it's not the weapon based on other clues. Compare this to case 2 of DR1, where there is a bloody dumbbell on the floor, and the first thing Hagakure says is that Chihiro was definitely hit with a metal pipe. Furthermore, Souda has dreams in goals in life, and things that he's extremely passionate about, which can't be said about Hagakure. I saw a lot of people saying that they like that side of Souda, and I very much agree. I also like that Souda is very genuine, whether he likes or dislikes something, whether he's excited or annoyed about something, you can see all of that on his face. That's also why I never really suspected him in any cases - he's seriously terrified by the whole idea of getting involved in the mutual killing, and even if he did kill someone, it's difficult to see him being able to conceal it well.

A major trait of Souda's character that influences his behavior a lot is his trust issues. His backstory tells us that he's not good at knowing whether people's intentions towards him are good or bad, and even though after the story with his friend's betrayal he seems to have realized this problem with his relationships with people, he doesn't really know how to change that. Which leads to this contradictory behavior of his when it comes to trusting people. He is set on completely trusting Sonia even when she rudely puts him down because he thinks she has reasons for that (even though his idea of those reasons is probably not exactly the same as hers). At the same time, when it comes to Hajime, he hesitates about trusting him, and it ends up being a thing that a lot of people judge him for. But what if we look at the situation from his point of view? It is true that Hajime has some unclear things about him, and while Komaeda is a creepy and annoying guy, he usually brings up good points (also the fact that Souda is the type to be easily manipulated). Souda does want to be friends with Hajime, but taking in account his past friendship experiences, exactly because he sees Hajime as a potential friend, he is afraid of being betrayed by him, so he starts to think that maybe he shouldn't get close to him in the first place. Souda being Souda, of course he comes off as rude and antagonistic when doing that, but the reason why is understandable.

I guess the whole thing with Sonia also has to be adressed, even though I see the stupid "love triangle" as a weird decision by developers that doesn't do good for any of the characters involved. Souda mentions that he went to an all-boys' school before, so him not knowing how to deal with girls is nothing weird, and with Sonia being a blond foreign princess, which correlates with his idea of an ideal girl, I can see how the whole situation came to be. I have no intention to excuse his behavior towards Sonia (even though, compared to Teruteru, he doesn't really do anything other than being... verbally annoying?), but I think that Sonia also could have dealt with it better than she did (I'm not judging her though). Sonia seems to have a history of dealing with people obsessing over her as a princess, and as soon as she sees Souda's advances towards her, she straight away dismisses him as the same kind of person. In the same way as Souda doesn't try to understand her as a person, she doesn't try to understand him as a person either. I'm not saying that she has to and I see why she doesn't want to. But even though she says that she wants to spend her school days with classmates as a normal girl, in this situation she still behaves like a princess with a stalker who is such a lowly pest that he doesn't even deserve any recognition as a human. She doesn't ever face him as a classmate, all she does at first is act coldly polite and ignore him, she doesn't ever try to, dunno, reject him properly before outright expressing her disappointment that he's not going to be executed in chapter 4's trial and complaining to others behind his back. It's definitely not Sonia's fault in any way that he can't take a hint, but is it really Souda's fault that he's that dense? In short, what I want to say is that the whole "relationship" seems to me as a very unfortunate collision of two characters and their personal issues rather than just "Souda is an evil creep who keeps harassing Sonia even though she keeps rejecting him". This is why I really liked that little scene in DR3 when Sonia acknowledges Souda's efforts. As I understand it, after the time that they spent on the island she seems to see now that, while annoying, he's basically harmless and just wants some recognition, and doesn't really mind him anymore. While there's still no sign of any possibility of anything romantic between them, it looks like she's not looking down on him as she did before, so at least there's some potential of a friendly relationship for him.

The biggest problem that I see about Souda is the lack of character development. You need to see his FTEs for his behavior to finally make more sense, and even with that there's not really much that changes about him throughout the story. Looks like for some reason the developers decided to make him a "comical loser" kind of character who never gets what he wants and always comes off as awkward, lame and annoying. Which is honestly sad, because there was potential for something more.

It's not meant to be an analysis or anything, just a personal opinion, it's just that since it's a character discussion thread, I wanted to use this opportunity to write all I wanted to say about Souda (probably not actually all I wanted to say, but this text is already much longer than it needs to be).

Soda is incredibly relatable and I love him for it. Anyone who has ever had a huge crush (and or obsession) on someone they knew they would never have a chance with can relate. You know he's never going to win her heart but you can't help but cheer him on!

That's why I love that scene at the end of DR3 when Sonia finally notices him. They may not ever be together but just noticing him was enough show that his hard work had payed off and that his crush was not entirely worthless if it means they will have a friendship.

He is a passionate character who easily becomes obsessed over things he finds an interest in (Machines and Sonia). He puts his all into everything he does and I can't help but admire him for it.

Cool design and pretty good FTE's. I do wish his nuance/development as a character weren't so limited to his FTE's, though, because he can easily come across as one dimensional in the main story due to his Sonia obsession. Not one of my favorites, but I'd probably put him somewhere in the middle of the pack if I had to rank the characters.

Also, asking out of curiosity: Why does it seem like Souda generally gets a lot more flak compared to someone like Fukawa? I understand a lot of people liked Fukawa because of DR:AE, but in the context of DR1, she had the same obsessive-lover shtick as Souda while probably being a lot less useful to the group overall. (Not that I dislike Fukawa as a character.)

As someone that likes both Souda and Fukawa, I think it's because more people see Fukawa's ACTUAL predatory nature as hilarious and out of the ordinary whereas Souda's obsession is seen as predatory and dangerous. Kind of a double standard.

I found both of their obsessions down right pathetic and creepy. I find toko's obsession even creepier if not more pathetic than Souda's

I think it's due to who the target of the obsession is.

While Fukawa goes after Togami, a guy who doesn't want to be with her, he's shown throughout the story to be a prick and thus a generally unlikable guy so it feels like a weird karmic justice.

While Souda goes after Sonia, a girl who doesn't want to be with him, she's shown to be a nice, if somewhat odd girl so it feels a lot more creepy and unjustified. If she was as douchey as Togami then that whole thing would probably be a lot less creepy and irritating.

Kazuichi, Kazuichi. What can I say, I love the guy. I'll start off by noting he has a really charming character design; medium length bright pink hair and a rather stand-out green outfit. But mainly, those teeth. Those teeth. Constantly during the game I was always thinking "those teeth are amazing". I mean, characters with sharp teeth I always feel biased towards but then we get to see his actual personality which is fucking fantastic.

Kazuichi starts off as a generally pretty friendly character with a wide variety of sprites. He can often change from happy to sad, to angry and even to insulted quite quickly, but mainly in a comedic manner. He mainly displays overall kindness towards his fellow classmates, but it can be noted that he is a little bit selfish due to him staying in the motel during the despair disease [but no one can blame him for that and ultimately he ended up fixing a monitor and camera system]. He also shows a bit of weakness when put into tough situations, and he comes across as one whom can easily be persuaded. Disagree perhaps, but I think this makes him more likeable, more innocent than perhaps his character actually is. It makes him really appear like a real, living human atop his other traits. He can almost be looked as a bit wimpy even, but I'm always biased towards wimpy male characters so it works for me.

Next we have his obvious attraction to Sonia, and unhealthy obsession. It is noted that he is more infatuated with the concept of her rather than whom she actually is; he'll instantly dive in to offer protection for her and comment about her positive traits, trying to construct his image of the previously unimaginable, innocent and kind princess. Evidence is where he shows a bit of surprise towards Sonia possessing traits that he is unaware of and oppose his image of his ideal princess. Perhaps one could say that this is where his character falls, but I disagree; this is where his character gets even better. Yes, perhaps it can be looked as a bit of a jerk move but I choose to look at it another way. Instead of being a jerk, I see that Kazuichi is really unexperienced with love. This is likely not his first crush, but the initial student that he actually looked up to. He acts a bit awkward when learning actual things about her, and this even furthers my argument; he doesn't know how to love a girl, he's never had a girlfriend or even a genuine love interest that he's looking towards learning about. Thus he reacts in a rather obsessive manner towards Sonia due to his inexperience, displaying attraction to her beauty and title but not to her actual personality and depth. Since he doesn't really know how to love a girl, I think that he becomes genuinely interested in figuring out about her but distant to the idea. Meaning if he got the chance he would take it and probably value it. And I do think that had he ever got in a relationship with Sonia he would eventually learn about her and treat her quite well. I also think after a fair bit of time he would begin to understand that she is a normal human being just like himself, and in response to her kind energy would gradually lose obsession over her. However I'm team Sonham, so let's not imagine that happening.

I'll dive deeper into his character though; putting his obsession with Sonia aside, he truly is quite the intriguing and deep character. I'm sure he's very relatable as he comes off as a hardworking young boy whom attempts at fitting in with a crowd so diverse from him self; he likely thinks he is a bit out of place and not in league with their ranks, but nonetheless he enjoys his time well with them and reacts positively to growing bonds. He also acts a bit awkwardly once he really learns about other people as well, but due to his kindness I overlook this and note that if his bonds strengthen he would end up completely accepting the other and possessing a mutual loyalty to them forever. He has both a lot of faith and doubt, so that would probably come into play when making deep relationships with his class mates. I think that at first he would question the situation a bit, but after sometime he would have absolute trust in his allies and show respect for their character in a rather casual way. I also note that like a regular boy his age, he sometimes gets distracted with the idea of girls.

I also have to state that I really like the comedic part of Kazuichi; he could be considered a bit of a Yasuhiro, but no problem there as in all honesty I loved Yasuhiro. Both characters have a way of making situations brighter and positive, as well as a deep sense of trust in their comrades, as well as doubt. Perhaps a bit useless, but it was really interesting talking to both these guys and hearing what they had to say; it was never a bore watching their sprites or reading what they had to say. Kazuichi especially had amazing interactions with the SDR2 cast, always appearing to come off as the boy who never really gets anything he wants. But hey, in a sense he remains content throughout it all and at the end it makes for a truly amazing character.

Overall, Kazuichi is fucking great.

Kazuichi gets likened to Hagakure in several ways, and with the way his role is in the story, I can kind of see why. I feel really mixed about Kazuichi, and he ultimately falls into okay territory for me.

He's a mix of not just Hagakure (in fact, I'd wager they got the idea for his talent from the scene with hagakure disassembling Monokuma come chapter 5. You can see several moments in DR 1 where you can kind of see where they got the idea for several of the DR 2 talents), but also Toko, a bit of Leon, and to a degree, Celeste.

Before anything, Kazuichi has major trust issues, which is why he's quite quick to buy into the idea of the traitor, and more importantly, why he distances himself from Hajime come chapter 4. Even before that, he brings up things like "we didn't know anything about Mikan" and had his trust betrayed when he saw her in chapter 3 after regaining her memories.

When I first showed my friend this game, Kazuichi started off as one of the characters he liked at first, but in his own words, "turned out to be kind of a scummy piece of shit." Keep in mind this was without the FTEs by the time he said that.

Kazuichi has the same sort of issue Akane does. He works perfectly fine as a character, but they instead choose to focus on something less interesting or engaging as the character. In Kazuichi's case, he takes it especially awkwardly. He starts off as sort of a bro character to Hajime, notably in the start of the game when he starts to hit it off and he and Hajime have the scene with all the girls prepping for the beach party.

Of course, he gets completely outshined a chapter later when most players will be drawn in by Fuyuhiko, who has pulled a 180 and gets close to Hajime as the two spend plenty of time together helping out at the hospital. Kazuichi does manage to stay on screen and put together the cameras to also set up for the mystery, but as far as a character goes, he's mostly used for exposition or reminding the player that there's a traitor. He does have the matter of trust and a backstory of wanting to be able to stand out, but it's either played for exposition's sake or played as a joke during the game, so he's never really put in proper focus.

Chapter 4 has him fix the elevator, which is great. But again, this comes back to exposition and not really focusing much on him. I'd make the comparison of Mikan's autopsies to tell us about her. Autopsies are obviously valuable to the investigation, but those in themselves don't tell us much about Mikan as a person. Knowing that Mikan genuinely likes taking care of people, refuses to give up on her patients, and enjoys the little bit of control and power she has over her patients is what tells us more about her. We don't get that same luxury with Kazuichi apart from learning he enjoys tinkering with things just for the hell of it, which isn't properly put into focus because he's constantly being played off as a joke.

Of course, we also have the BIGGEST thing that acts as a detractor to Kazuichi. MISS SONIA GAGS. It gets old very quickly, and I didn't find it particularly funny, especially since it's a copy paste of Byakuya/Toko, which I also didn't find that funny either. Byakuya's dick responses like him being sad she survived an explosion is where most of the humor came from, but it doesn't really work as well with someone like Sonia, who I felt for after constantly being bugged, but again, having it come up constantly, even in tense situations, got annoying as hell.

Kazuichi is just kind of brought back, and he does make a good red herring killer in multiple cases I feel, thanks in part to him being reasonably intelligent, in the wrong place at the wrong time numerous times, and a handy talent to be able to explain multiple setups. Then you've got the end scene in chapter 6 where all the survivors are standing together as the neo world programming is falling apart around them. Even in that shot, Kazuichi is separate from everyone and when everyone gets their own inspiring line, his doesn't really seem to make any sense or connect to anything. He's also the only survivor to not really have anyone to be connected to who died. Chiaki cared about everyone, but we saw that she was a confidant to Hajime specifically and helped him through his breakdown. Peko obviously had her connection to Fuyuhiko and he directly references her. Sonia and Gundham have their connection and she notes that she saw a "warm, yet resolute" light and had something with him. Akane had Nekomaru and brings up how she will keep on fighting, suggesting almost that Nekomaru came back one more time to beat some sense into her and get her to keep moving forward. Kazuichi? "I might as well protect this place too." His line is really weird at the end…

But yeah, Kazuichi has a huge trust issue and a convincing background, one I think is genuinely real and powerful…that and the fact that Hajime is kind of a dick to Kazuichi in his free time events.

Hajime: "If you overcome your motion sickness, I can totally imagine you riding a motorcycle with a girl...You'd probably hang out with a bunch of delinquents and get into all kinds of trouble, too."

But like I said, it's an issue of focus because Kazuichi gets sidelined by others at several points and instead is used mostly for exposition, a red herring, or a joke. Cool guy, but I do find him annoying at several points when he goes into Miss Sonia territory too much. Judging from how he was talking about her, it seems more that he likes the idea of her and doesn't actually know much of anything about her, like talking about her castle at one point, and saying how he loves blonde chicks (which only makes the whole Junko reveal much darker). So I don't have much sympathy for him constantly hitting on her and being let down.

I want to like him more, but take away the Sonia gag and he's ten times better. It's an issue of lack of focus with what do with his character at points. All the pieces are there, it's just what the cast the most attention on. If I were the writer for this game, I'd have him be a bit closer to Nekomaru, especially since the two tied up Nagito at the beginning of chapter 2. Since he's had a backstory of being pushed around, I could totally buy him taking up weightlifting or something because he didn't want to be kicked around anymore and just kind of distances himself and withdraws from everything, so Nekomaru jumping right on that and getting him to come out of his shell would be a great dynamic. Plus, it'd work well for him to be annoyed by Akane come chapter 3 and would really help cast suspicion on him and Akane in chapter 4 when Nekomaru is the victim.

i hated soda from the beginning of my time in the fandom, due to his design, sharp teeth, overall scene kid appearance, etc.

After some time, through his FTE's and fanwork, I started to relate to this weirdo a whole lot better. The guy's just super awkward, and kind of a hot mess (but aren't we all?)

Also, screw Sonia. Gundham x Soda all the way.

Starts off really good! He's a good character up til the halfway point. After chapter 4 he becomes completely Sonia obsessed and the most annoying character in SDR2.

It's a shame because I really don't understand why the conclusion to chapter 4 didn't lead to any sort of character development for him...

This is why i was glad that sonia practically told him to fuck off in the later chapters.

Ugh, Soda. He was really irritating and got on my nerves a lot, particularly near the end where his entire character revolved around stalking Sonia. Aside from that, he didn't go through any development and yet still managed to survive. His backstory was....alright, but it was nothing special. It was just another tragic backstory, something that was WAY too common in SDR2.

However, unlike Hagakure he did contribute to the trials and he put his talent to use, something that I really appreciated in SDR2. He also could be a bit funny when he wasn't around Sonia, such as interacting with Hajime. Finally, his English VA was really good and fit his character really well.

Soda was an okay character through the first 2/3 of SDR2, but after Chapter 4, his entire character became warped around Sonia, and it was so annoying.

My new favorite character thus far. I feel bad for him, all he wants is love.

If I may, this is a link to a blog from the Danganronpa Amino, by user Bubblegum Rocker:

http://aminoapps.com/page/danganronpa/2908155/ahos-wy-javourite-character

I wanted to share this in depth discussion they wrote, since it's so agreeable as to why Kaz shouldn't receive the hate he gets, and why he is just as valuable a character as any other.

My 3rd favorite character from DR2. He was funnier and more useful than Hagakure and he's really relatable in some aspects. I don't have much to say about him to be honest.

late but whatever, i hate how people think he's the Hagakure of DR2. dude is way more useful than that, but yeah his creeper tendencies are kind of a problem

I don't really understand why Soda is constantly compared to Hag-and-curry. Soda actually does useful stuff and has an incredible talent, while the fortune telling bum has almost no redeeming qualities.

What most people say: he's fine for the first part of the game, but once his Sonia obsession takes over it becomes ALL his character is. Even in DR3! And it is annoying as hell, not to mention really creepy. However, he's more useful than Hiro and Akane, so while I dislike him he's not the worst for me.

Also screw you for Chapter 4 you trust Nagito more than you trust Hajime what part of that is sound to you

I used to hate him, now I like him, he's #31 on my overall DR list

Kazuichi is a character a like when he isn't constantly obsessing over Sonia it's both creepy and annoying. Other than that I like his characterization and back-story and his design. Compared to the other DR2 cast members he ranks pretty low.

Oh. Soda. I'm still not really sure about how I feel about him. One thing I really like about him is his chara design. Soda is a very colorful character, I think he really stands out in the DR2 cast with those fabulous pink hair. Moreover, his facial expressions are hilarious and really give him a special touch that makes him very funny. As for his skills, the boy is very talented, and might have been one of the most dangerous of the RoD. When he's talking about mechanics, he seems really nice and interesting. I think his background is also a bit interesting, and help relate to him a lot -shame you don't see much of it outside of the FTEs. Because here is where the problem with Soda lies, in my opinion : in the game, he was one of the most annoying character of the cast. I am SoniaxGundham trash so my judgement might be biased, but the whole love-triangle story seemed very useless and very annoying. Both Sonia ad Gundham got some development, but he stood the same during the game, being a creep towards Sonia. Again, I might be biased, but this was the biggest turn-off for ths character, for me : everytime he had an intervention that wasn't related to the plot, it was about stalking Sonia. At the end, I was only hoping for him not to appear at all in group dialogues to not read this. And I don't think I can (and want) to go further with liking him, because what was shown in the game didn't make him look like a good personn for me, even if his background might explain his behaviour :/

When i started the game he was pretty cool, but chapter 2 onwards his creepy obsession with sonia really killed his character for me. What makes it even worse is that he gets no character development though out the main story and is for ever labeled as "Sonia's stalker" for me. Much like Toko in DR 1 they live for the character they obsess over, which i find pathetic and sad.

His FTEs were "meh" at best because nothing really stood out aside that he had abusive parents. Other FTEs did the tragic back story much much better such as gundam or Akane's(surprisingly).

Meh.

-3 points 1 year ago 
Ewwwww he's gross

wait that was YOU ! you foul BEAST! YOU WILL PAY! [takes out really big & cool Wrench Sword]

pssh.. show me what's you of got..

[deleted]

I get what you're saying, and you're entitled to that opinion, but I have to completely disagree with your first edit. Kazuichi isn't smart, but he certainly doesn't treat people like toys. Teruteru would literally ask Sonia to suck his di*k, maybe as a joke, I don't really know...

but Souda is far more thoughtful than to do something like that. Souda does see people as people. He has strong relationships with the guys, particularly Hajime - since Hajime is approachable and relatable.

Sonia is approachable, but not relatable to Souda. They lived entirely different lives before hopes Peak.

The fact that he doesn't really know what to say to Sonia doesn't make him a creep. He worries that he may say the wrong thing(and often does) . He thinks for hours and hours over what he could do to have people appreciate him, and helps people through his talent (like how he created minimaru to both impress Sonia and comfort Akane)

The mere fact that he puts tons of thought into almost EVERYTHING he does shows that he knows people are sensitive - he knows. He also knows that he is terrible at fitting in, and people Reject him no matter how hard he tries to fit in.

-3 points 1 year ago 
ok yknow what clearly we played two different games here so i'm just gonna stop

Character Discussion #44 - Ryota? Mitarai (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

Talent: Impostor

Appearances: Goodbye Despair, DR3 Despair Arc, Hope Arc

Status: Alive

Notable Roles in DR3:

Impersonates Ryota Mitarai in Despair Arc

Befriends Ryota Mitarai and watches for his health alongside Mikan Tsumiki

Reveals his true appearance

Impersonates Kyosuke Munakata

Discuss anything pertaining the Ultimate Impostor, Ryota? Mitarai!

Previous Discussion for the Ultimate Impostor

DR3
Character Order for Discussions V3
SPOILER

Pretty much one of the few characters that was handled somewhat decently in DR3. I have his original take and post here. I sorta disagree with some of the other comments here saying he had no real personality in DR 2, because that was the entire draw to his character.

He's not particularly deep or anything, but it was fine since he is the first death, and the UI I felt was a much better way of handling a character who dies early, but can still have something interesting to them. I especially love this guy because the faceless disguiser role is typically reserved for a more villainous portrayal and not given much sympathy or attention. I do think it's a little cheap to kind of do a fakeout death by making it seem shocking that they killed off a DR 1 survivor in DR 2, but he makes up for it just on his own merits, I feel. He also makes a good red herring for cases 5 and 6 and was very intentionally revealed in chapter 5. It's a good way to help mislead the player.

I wasn't expecting them to have him reach out to and even befriend and support Mikan a bit in addition to Ryota. (who absolutely does not deserve the UI, but still doesn't change the fact that the UI is great)

I do, however, think the biggest mistake DR3 made was actually creating and revealing a face for this guy. The entire point of a character like this is that he lacks an identity, and despite that, he got to be acknowledged and reach out to people. If you just show what they look like, we just have a random face we have no connection to, and it gives away a lot of the mystery with these characters since now we've confirmed a lot of what shouldn't be confirmed.

Make no mistake, making a faceless character doesn't mean they shouldn't be given a backstory, motivations, or personality traits, but they did accomplish that with the Ultimate Impostor, which is what makes it all the more sad that they revealed his face. It's not the biggest issue DR 3 has, but I was a bit sad to have them do that. I will at least credit them for it actually making sense why he even has to disguise as ryota in the first place since he knew the real Byakuya would eventually show up and attend.

That's really all I have for him on DR3. Considering how badly this anime handled so much of the cast and of the series as a whole, he did come out of it a lot better than most characters at least. The rest is copied from what I wrote about him back in DR2. He was one of my favorite characters then and still is now.

The first thing you learn about the Ultimate imposter upon meeting him is that he's really competent. The opening shows Hajime is quite panicky compared to everyone else, and early on, Hajime rushes to think up ideas to escape the island. The game takes the time to have the UI shooting down all of Hajime's suggestions, warning him that making rafts for 16 people will cause problems if they don't know where they are and if they'll have enough food, among other things. Hajime then says "who cares" to Usami's rules, to which the UI warns him not to do anything if they don't know who or what it is or what would happen if they broke the rules. Hajime is lucky this isn't DR 1, as he'd probably end up getting Mukuro'd if he hadn't listened. UI has a lot of similarities to Kyoko in this respect.

Even before that, he's the one to deduce that Hajime is the last student to show up, the one to ask if everyone experienced the same feeling when they entered the door. He's the first to pick up on the difference in the park when the "bomb" is placed there at the beginning. He delivers the biggest warning of all, noting that suspecting everyone is the largest threat to everyone's safety.

All of this is to establish that the Ultimate Imposter has really thought things through. From the moment you see him, he's already thinking through everything around him in great detail. Once he's appointed as leader, the game takes the time to show that both Nekomaru and Sonia are fine with him as a leader, despite the fact that both of them would make for fine leaders themselves and also have leadership based ultimate talents. Half his screentime in the main story is spent asking questions and making deductions. He builds an entire countermeasure to Nagito's plan all based on a threatening letter. The guy really thinks things through.

It's not just that though. He still reaches out to everyone whenever he can. I mentioned in the Ibuki discussion that she's very emotionally intelligent and was able to have a thorough understanding of Hajime within minutes of meeting him. The UI seems to have a similar ability, which should come as no surprise given that his talent is all about knowing people to be able to convincingly mimic their personality. (Cue the Ibuki x UI shippers jumping for joy now) Ibuki also seems genuinely impressed with the guy his whole time. He pretty much has to. He picks up on Hajime's insecurity regarding his talent pretty quickly and that's a large portion of his FTEs, all well before the game really starts to focus on this part of Hajime. He picks up on Fuyuhiko's insecurity without having to know much about him and reaches out to him too, all without Fuhyuhiko actually revealing anything about himself. They're also kind enough to misdirect us into thinking this is the real Byakuya saying all this.

It's unclear exactly what his true personality is like since he's impersonating someone, but it makes for a wonderful contrast to see one of the most empathetic and supportive characters in the series impersonating one of the biggest pricks in the series. Some of it is probably the fact that everyone is in a dangerous killing game, but he ends up letting more of his real personality slip through, but the bigger thing is that the UI is just too empathetic and kindhearted. Most of his more condescending comments seem to just be thrown out to sell everyone on the Byakuya image. In his FTEs, you'll notice that he gradually sounds more and more supportive as the conversation progresses and then you'll suddenly see him toss out something a little more rude. It's pretty much that he noticed that he got a bit carried away and has to pull back to his "disguise."

While he's supportive, he's still got his own share of insecurities. Being an imposter means you see everything from a third person perspective and don't engage with people as yourself. It's the best way to explain how he's so emotionally intelligent. However, he sees more and more that it strips him of any meaningful connections. It means by nature he has to abandon people if found out. It's a handy talent, but is very isolating by nature. There is a fan theory out there that he's one of the siblings in the real Byakuya's family competition who lost and was stripped of his identity, so I won't dwell too much on it, but it's still another interesting angle.

He gets picked on by Hiyoko and is more touched by the fact that he gets to exist now. His FTEs with Hajime show a very mutual bond between the two. The UI goes out of his way multiple times to offer to support Hajme and makes sure to address his insecurity regarding his talent.

UI: Just make sure you don't get in my way. A Commoner should know their place and stay put.

UI: …

UI: However...if there is anything troubling you, I don't mind if you rely on me.

And another one:

UI: If there's anything worrying you, just let me know any time. No need to hold back.

In exchange, he starts to show off his own, and Hajime still returns the favor.

Hajime: The only Byakuya I know is the person standing in front of me.

UI: Thank you. I…I always wanted someone to say that to me.

The UI is a fine example of how to handle characters that have to unfortunately be the ones to get killed off early. They still gave us a great story in such a short time with the guy, and while he set off way too many death flags to have any shot at surviving, I still love this guy and the fact that he was a part of the DR 2 cast. Him not only going as far as doing body checks, locking up potential weapons, and then dying to protect everyone and making sure nobody dies secures him as one of the most intelligent, competent, empathetic, and supportive members in all of Danganronpa. Good going, UI.

Mitarai,who absolutely does not deserve the UI

Oh um.....Okay....., that is some pretty cold words to say about someone who was bullied throughout his entire Childhood and didn't really have any friends.....But whatevs.

I'm not looking down on the fact that he's bullied, but he makes choices throughout the anime that end up costing so many more lives for no reason. I think he's a disgusting person, and no amount of "but he didn't have friends/was bullied" can overturn that. I'll be going more into detail about it when we get to Ryota. He makes little effort to change, makes a really shitty and selfish decision at the end, and faces no consequences whatsoever.

I don't like Mitarai but I think he's the closest thing DR3 has to an actual character. Very curious to see what your thoughts will be

The short of it is "he sucks" but it's more that he suffers from the fact that Danganronpa never really knows how to end a story or at the very least have some kind of consequence to some character's decision.

Really the only character I'll be somewhat praising is Koichi, who got a whole five seconds of screentime and is obviously a poor man's Ray Shields, but he at least showed one of the few good examples of DR 3 enriching previous established lore instead of retconning or discrediting it.

Uhm what is UI. I know it as User Interface. But i feel that's not what it is. Also sorry I'm new to this subreddit! Maybe it's a common acronym used here!

A short term for ultimate imposter, i also found that out recently.

Oh! For a moment I thought we were going to talk about Ryota Mitarai's appearance is Despair Arc exclusively!

Anyways, as for DR3 Imposter, I liked him a lot. I always appreciated back in DR2 how even though he was impersonating someone as snobbish and narcissistic as Togami, you can tell that he is a good person and his support and loyalty to the other students shows itself in what he says and does. Seeing more of that side of him in DR3 was great! Him covering for the true Ryota's identity because of how malnourished and unhealthy he was looking while still giving him all the time to animate was really sweet as was his gratitude to Mikan's assistance. I can safely speak for the fandom when I say that if DR3 did anything right, it was how they handled Imposter's character.

...and that's about it. I feel like most of these discussions for the DR3 characters will be around one paragraph long because of the lack of screen time.

Yeah, the only DR3 characters I imagine will have a lot to be said is Sakakura and Andou just cause of how controversial they are.

I imagine there'll be a lot of shitting on DR3 as well.

Does most of the DanganRonpa community dislike / hate DR3? I personally loved it. It was great to see how Nagito and the rest of his 77-B classmates became remnants of dispair!

I'm not sure if it's still the consensus, but at the time Hope Arc aired there was a lot of backlash over it. The top comments in this thread alone seem to still hold negative feelings about DR3 in general so I don't think opinions changed that much.

I can understand why people like it, but just for myself and a lot of others who adored DR2 and was curious about each student's path to falling into despair lolbrainwashing was a very huge letdown and made Junko seem more ineffectual as a villain.

Also Future Arc was horribly underdeveloped and Aoi + Kirigiri both had a fakeout death for no reason but to try to evoke feelings and neither of their "deaths" were followed through.

One of the few bright spots of the DR3 anime. (And pay no attention to my flare, I am totally unbiased)

However, they retconned him from SDR2 where his badass Togami personality was his imposter mask while he introduced himself as his true self with a softer personality like Mitarai's during Trial 6. In the anime they switched it, his soft Mitarai personality was the mask while his true self was a badass like Togami. I liked the Imposter's personality as Togami, so I didn't mind it that much, but still.... retcon. :|

They also never explained how he was accepted into Hope's Peak as Togami (as shown in SDR2), then immediately had to switch over to posing as Mitarai. Was he originally supposed to be part of Class 77B as Togami or not? Because with the addition of Mitarai & Nanami, 77B was not missing a student. The real Togami doesn't even show up for an entire year afterwards and he's the same age as the rest of the 78th class, so it doesn't seem like the Imposter's invitation to the 77th class was ever really meant for Togami.

Also despite revealing his true (Steven Seagal) face and saying he was going to start living his own life, he's back to impersonating Mitarai again at the end (after his going back to pose as Togami while SHSL Despair and then his hilarious stint as Munakata during the final battle). It's better that they never showed his "true" face then (especially with the complete non-reaction that reveal received from his classmates)

Otherwise, he's a great imposter (obviously since he can fool so many people while being like 100 lbs heavier than the original, as well as his imposter talent seemingly bleeding over to a jack of all trades ability which allows him to at least mimic the talents of those he is posing as). But what I really like is how you can tell the Imposter's true personality by comparing the small differences between how he acts when posing and how the true person acts. He's a truly reliable, kind, intelligent, and caring person as originally shown in SDR2 and further backed up by his taking care of the real Mitarai & his interactions with Mikan in DR3.

Best leader the Dangan Ronpa games have had, hands down. When he says that he's going to protect everyone and won't let any of the other classmates die on his watch, than they are not freaking dying on his watch, not even the crazy person trying to instigate his own murder, not even if it takes the Imposter's own death to prevent it. I really wish he could have made it to a class trial, because damn the dude was competent at investigating & strategizing. I don't know if anyone else could have foiled Komaeda's attempt to get himself axed based on so little clues like the Imposter did.

If Imposter lived to chapter 5 he would have called Nagito's bluff with that bomb threat. Haha

I think the Imposter is the only returning character from DR2 where my opinion of them got better and not worse, cause he actually had character to him this time around.

Best moment was when he came charging in with the Munakata getup that was fucking beautiful.

I liked him, and despite all the hype around Chiaki being the class rep, I honestly think Imposter is a better pick for such a role. No matter whose role he takes, his own qualities are shown, such as his leadership. He is quite calm and serious, so both Ryota and Togami, two completely different characters, are similar in his perfomance.

He is another reason I didn't like Ryota, as Imposter's Ryota is a much better character, and when we see the original, it feels... bad, I don't know? He doesn't stand up to his copy. I'd prefer we'd never seen Ryota himself, so that we never got Future Arc, but I guess that's a story for another time.

All in all, he was a great character in SDR2 and maybe the only one (I'm not sure yet) to stay in character in the anime and not be shitted on by Kodaka.

There are several characters who would be a better choice over chiaki. I always liked how the UI ended up proving himself and putting his words into motion by taking countermeasures to protect everyone. He even got the approval of both Sonia and Nekomaru, both of whom would make more fitting choices for class rep, imo and have explicit leadership abilities.

[S]And it's officially back (a bit early) after a 10 month hiatus! Feel free to talk about any appearance of this character in any media, be it DR2, DR3, or the DRV3 Bonus Mode!

I'll be using this first discussion as a testing ground for how active these are now, and depending on that I'll decide on whether these will remain weekly or be shifted to two discussions per week.

If I do make it biweekly, first discussion will be posted Monday 12 AM give or take a few hours, and the second will be made sometime Thursday afternoon.

Also I fixed the Double Kokichi in the list, Kaito actually appears now

I like him a lot. The anime helps us to see that, even though he doesn't realize it, he DOES have a personality and self beyond whoever he is disguising himself as. He's a kind and supportive person who loves fried foods. I wish someone had told him that, though. D :

An angel. I really enjoyed how he cared for Mitarai, it was a really sweet friendship, unfortunately better in theory than in practice, like most of DR3. Showing his face was totally backwards though.

[S]Yeah, like others said before I think showing his face kinda ruined the mystic and theme of his character a bit.

The Ultimate Impostor is one of the only DR2 characters who appeared in DR3 to actually do something! He got a bit of development and had some light shed on his personality and talent. You might have thought that he was just acting like a leader and acting like a true bro because he was impersonating Byakuya, but nope, he's always a top fucking lad regardless of who he's impersonating.

Also his Munakata impersonation is legendary, and if he can even impersonate Munakata's fighting abilities, we know from this that the Impostor is actually pretty fucking strong.

Really good character, could've been the best if he was handled better with the addition of a backstory explaining the birth of his Ultimate Talent and having him live a little longer in Danganronpa 2.

In SDR2 Imposter was just there to give us the surprise that the guy who died isn't actually Byakuya. While I liked the twist, I always wondered what he was really like and I think DR3 delivered this insanely well.

I remain adamant that he was the only member of the SDR2 roster who they did good by with the DR3 train wreck (The issue isn't so much that the rest of the characters were made worse aside from Nagito, but that they were utterly irrelevant in their own origin story).

Anyway, he was the Ultimate Bro throughout and was shown to be one of the more admirable characters in the series. Any problems I have with him in DR3 are the same problems I have with the playing it safe finale, the handling of the entire SDR2 cast and Junko's retconned manipulation tactics.

I also guess I can see why people may be disappointed by the face reveal, but if we go by the assumption that we're never going to see these characters again, it was the most fitting conclusion to his character arc.

9.Hajime

Wasn't he done before a long time ago?

Some of the characters that were already done are getting revisits since they got new information or canon added to them because of DR3.

[S] 
You do my job better than I do it myself

The above about sums it up, if they got enough meaningful new screentime or info in DR3 the characters are revisited.

Why isn't Chiaki on the list?

[S]Huh, I actually thought she was on the list, I can't believe I missed that. I just copied the same list I made from a year ago but I don't know how I missed it the first time when she got the biggest retcon from DR2 to DR3.

I'll add her to the end of the list then, thanks for catching that!

Dunno if that's really necessary, in her discussion I felt all was kinda discussed (for better or for worse, even for DR3), so dunno if her having another discussion is for the best IMO. (Plus I totally want to move into the V3 characters once we're done with the anime ones xD)

[S]Oh wait, maybe that's why I didn't include her if DR3 already finished by then.

Clearly I need to organize myself some more, I'll think on it a bit before I make a decision.

plus, having her implies that DR3 Chiaki was an actual character

Wait so he was going to Hope's Peak Academy as Ryota Mitarai right? Then what was the real Mitarai doing the whole time. I know he was doing his own little animations but is that it? Wouldn't the school had notice the Ultimate Imposter not coming to school since he's only been going there under the facade of being Ryota?

Easily one of the best handled DR3 characters but in all honesty I'm kind of neutral on the Imposter. Don't get me wrong, he's really good with his talent and fills his role perfectly but besides that there isn't much to say about him. He's an okay character for me.

I don't dislike Mitarai. I think he is a very good character. His progression and actions in the future arc make sense due to the trauma he suffered in the despair arc. However, because the plot ended up so poor, he came off as a shitty antagonist and I somewhat understand the dislike for him. Good character, needs a better script.

I think you're getting confused with the real Mitarai, this discussion is for the imposter pretending to be him.

tbh at first I kinda was too like why was Mitarai allowed two discussions... and then I saw some comments in the thread and....

Shit lmao.

the UI is so good he can fool even real people

I love him, he's one of my favorites. You have no idea how happy I was when I watched DR3 and saw my best boy getting so much focus.

Since we already talked about him in DR2, I'll try not to retread old ground and expand the page without purpose.

Given that we barely got anything form him in DR2, it's a good thing we got a bit more of him in the anime. We get to see more of his concerned, generous side than we got in the game. While I don't feel like the anime added much to the character beyond what we already knew from the game, there's probably plenty of people that wouldn't have known jack about him due to not going through all his free time events (yes, I'm as shocked as you that some people would skip the most interesting part of the game).

Honestly, given his relatively minor role in DR2 as the first victim, despite having a big part in the reveal, I think he should've played a bigger role in the anime. Granted, he already has a decent part given that without him dragging Mikan over to take care of Mitarai things would have gone a bit differently, but he would've made a better pseudo-protagonist of the anime than Junko or Hajime were. Why focus on retreading what we already know about the bullshit backstory when we could have someone else's perspective on events from a different angle?

If I were to rewrite the story (speaking of which, I need to get back to doing that at some point), I would have had the imposter try to do something to help the whole despair situation. Unfortunately (and predictably given that it's a prequel) he fails and ends up essentially forced into helping the forces of despair instead. Or maybe he succeeds and things could have been even worse without his intervention, we can do what we want when we haven't clarified the details...

Character Discussion #45 - Nagito Komaeda (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

CLICK TO SEE SPOILER
SPOILER

I really like Nagito. I think he's one of the most conceptually interesting characters in the whole series without question. I love parts of him, but I do feel he's held back by a lot of the general tropes Danganronpa has, particularly it's hope/despair stuff to just fill in cracks. This is part of what I wrote about Nagito in his first character discussion:

Nagito is a static character—in fact, he's probably one of the most static characters in the game. That's odd, considering how all over the place he is, but when you look back, we're given a set of traits he embodies and rather than having those wildly change, they actually keep him pretty much the same throughout the whole game. Nagito even says in the end of chapter 4 that his way of thinking will never change. He's not like Fuyuhiko, who is given a set of characteristics and then having some of them actively change after a turning point. Nagito is the same person just reacting to wildly different scenarios, but the player wouldn't be able to realize this fact until the end of the game. Danganronpa 2 deliberately uses this and his generally shitty ability to communicate with others and uses it to misdirect the player. Had they shown any other ultimate despair at the start of chapter 6 aside from Nagito, that scene would have given away too much. They knew players would just write it off as Nagito being crazy as always. He and Mikan are carefully designed to throw people off the trail.

Nagito is like the student met with hardship their whole lives and lucked out and got a big scholarship to a wealthy university. You are clearly blessed with good fortune, but when you get to that school, you're going to be met with lots of students in more stable environments financially and socially, and that disconnect is clearly going to gnaw at you very quickly. Nagito's luck is used as an extension of whatever kind of hardships there are. Not everyone at hope's peak is wealthy nor do they even come from stable environments, but Nagito sees that as them having the ability to overcome their trials and become better. Their hope shines even brighter, right? They're simply all better than him. For Nagito, this gets twisted to the point where the students stop becoming loved ones and classmates—they're game pieces for hope. That's how he can just say "oh well, she's dying. At least we can use her as fuel for hope."

Nagito is incredibly depressed too. Being willing to be harsh on yourself, throw yourself into dangerous situations, and needing contests to define your own worth isn't unheard of. His depression is largely what drives him to enter the final dead room. He went in because he didn't want the others risking his life, and he's constantly thinking of how he can be useful. In the trials, you may notice that Nagito goes around and--at the very least—gathers the more obscure evidence to make sure everyone is at least capable of figuring out the trial. For example, he gathers the gummies and footprints in trial 2. He makes sure Hajime gets the threatening letter but doesn't discover the too-easy-to-figure-out secret passage in trial 1. He acts like a second moderator despite participating in the trial. He realizes there's no trial to overcome if everyone doesn't have all the pieces needed, so he gathers them first and then sets everyone free as if he was doing an experiment. This is all with the exception of trial 3, where he clearly sides against ultimate despair, but because Hajime has evidence that only he can use, the trial progresses with Hajime talking and Nagito giving him another push whenever he gets stuck. He also went out of his way to protect Hajime in the beginning of the trial by proving he can't be the killer. It still goes back to seeing everyone as game pieces, but he stops acting as a moderator for this trial.

All of this is just a nice way to represent the mindset of people invested in talent, invested in just being strung along with only hope. Everyone heaps up and obsesses over hope's peak because it's an ideal. It's like obsessing over a certain career, a certain body type, or any kind of status symbol that promises acceptance and success. It's interesting to think that Nagito flew through the hardest trials in the series like they were nothing, that he would have easily been a survivor, and that he was so quick to throw that away. I imagine part of the reason he carried out such a horrifyingly painful suicide plan was a way to punish himself for becoming ultimate despair and not being good enough for hope.

Nagito has a disconnect with everyone. While he genuinely believes he is doing the right thing and helping everyone, he doesn't catch when he's being insensitive, so he's not trying to insult people most of the time. Additionally, one part I love about this game is when you see Nagito's message after trial 5. Where he tells everyone to praise him and call him the ultimate hope for his deeds. The students clearly see this as him going crazy and being the super hammy villain. However, from his perspective, his only goal was taking out the ultimate despair members, including himself. He wanted to finish what the future foundation started, so from an outsider's perspective without any context, being the guy that killed off ultimate despair really would have you down as a hero.

The only other big thing I can think of is that Nagito consistently gets one thing wrong in pretty much each trial. The motives. While he can usually deduce who the killer is (before the trial even begins most likely), Nagito pretty much always has to be corrected when he makes an assumption on why the killer committed their crime. In Mikan's, he misses the point that she acted out of love. With Peko's he missed the point that she's not an accomplice but is suggesting she is a tool only to be used for Fuyuhiko's purposes. With Gundham's he misses the entire point completely. He doesn't even bother with Teruteru's, only thinking about the hope Teruteru was apparently fighting for.

Nagito's representative of the outside world's view of chasing an ideal (being talented, earning success, having a certain body type, being in a relationship, etc) as a means of having self worth brought on by misfortune despite everything he does have.

This is where Danganronpa 3 botches it. Apart from the huge stretch of Nagito's ridiculous backstory, I think his character would have been better if they just gave him a bunch of unfortunate life circumstances and he developed an inferiority complex and a great deal of self hatred over just getting by on luck. Make him a poor kid in a school full of rich people for example. You already have that with Hope's peak where he's surrounded by talented people. You've got plenty of material for a character right there and don't need to have his family somehow being killed with a meteorite. I can buy his luck being bullshit in DR2 because they make it explicit they're in the confines of a virtual reality, so I can see him relying on the numbers to win at Russian Roulette or hope the right person throws a fire grenade.

I don't think it works in any other setting, and DR3 misses the fact that Nagito relies very heavily on planning things out and isn't just solely his luck. Case 2-5 ultimately rests on luck, but it still took a shitload of planning and understanding to know how everyone is going to react t ultimately get them in position for the trap to even work, and the anime really misses this aspect of Nagito. What does he do in DR3? He just happens to pick a bottle and just relies on his luck instead of simply asking Seiko "hey, is this the right one?" He stages a bombing just because of testing instead of planning things out in more detail. Nagito is lot smarter than that, and I hate how his entire character is made into that. Instead of fixating on the cynical yet brilliantly meticulous and manipulative Nagito, they devolve his entire character into just chance, which is more along the lines of the "my parents were killed by a meteorite" side that I don't care for as much.

Nagito is held back by the fact that they have a good concept, but don't tie his character to anything besides hope/despair, so it just feels hollow. I'm not calling him a bad character, since he still is one of my favorites, but he could be better if they worked on this. If he had something beyond just talking about hope to talk about, like instead have him just stick to obsessing over "worthy" people because of his life circumstances and give him something more grounded to work with, his character makes much more of a lasting effect.

It was apparent even in DR 2 that they had a great idea with him but didn't know quite what they wanted to do with him, so they just wrote in situations to keep him apart from things until they needed him later in the plot. He's tied up in Ch2, sick in ch 3, and doesn't really do much in these chapters, then he's playable in ch4, for example.

DR 3 takes making him one-dimensional a step further because the DR 2 cast relied on having cliche characters (ex. Akane is a food obsessed anime cliche who eats a lot) that take on real world explanations (ex. she eats because of the environment she grew up in and doesn't know when or if her next meal will arrive) but because of DR3's pacing, it doesn't give time to focus on the latter part, meaning we just see the joke portions of the cast. Hell, even in DR 2, there was so much of a disjoint in the main story and the FTEs at times that it felt like the FTEs were made afterward as a way to excuse the fanservice and jokes so the game could have its cake and eat it too. I don't see it quite as much with Nagito since I feel his issue lies more with the games being about hope/despair/truth/lies/whatever, but again, he's a good and interesting character that could be better.

Great read, and honestly apart from him bieng too held down by the series gimmick ,alot of sdr2 charcters in dr3 can be described as ''one note characters that have a wierd disconnect with their sdr2 selfs mindhacked to be evil''

This is why DR3 was so bad to me personally, it marginalized and made the DR2 cast a joke.

I LOVED Nagito in DR3. We don't really get to see many of his thoughts, but the way he speaks and acts is awesome!

He's like this whimsical jester character— he's so powerful that he feels like he doesn't really need to try that hard. Which is true.

That's just it though. He does try, quite a bit too. Both his plans in case 1 and 5 required quite a bit of thought and effort, and a large element to it is manipulating people in some way. His entire plan in DR 1 hinged on the group having an event at the old building, and his entire setup in the fifth case relied on manipulating everyone so nobody would have an alibi using the bomb scare and relying on them throwing the fire grenades.

I thought it the best irony that someone so intelligent and capable at applying themselves be someone so down on themselves that they're convinced effort is worthless before talent and circumstance.

Dr 3 I feel eliminates that method and just plays on the "lol luck" angle,and you could get away with stretching it in a virtual reality, but to me Dr 3 just makes it feel more like his "my parents were struck to death by a meteorite" thing. It just feels kind of forced and silly to me more than engaging or interesting. Nagito may have used or relied on his luck at times, but it always came with extensive planning and manipulation too.

Nagito is SO good. Whether you love him or you hate him, he's the main reason DR2 stands at the top. What an amazing wildcard. You never knew what he was going to do and his role in the game constantly evolved, culminating with the greatest chapter in DR history and the smartest plan in anything ever.

Amazingly voiced in both languages too. And there's the whole Makoto connection fake-out.

I think the "I hate you, but I love you, but I hate you" meme encapsulates pretty well not only a good bit of Komaeda's fandom but the attitudes held by Komaeda himself. He is a character of ambivalence, opposites, & contradictions.

He clings fervently to hope, but is already in despair (and is a harbinger of despair in SDR2). As revealed in his Dangan Island ending he had no actual true hope for himself and curses that Hinata managed to inspire a bit of it within him. He worships the talented, but is more than ready to sacrifice them (and as DR 2.5 shows, there is resentment mixed in that worship as well) He is self-loathing & self deprecating, but if you fail his expectations and show that you are actually less worthy than trash like him, oh boy are you going to see ego & arrogance.

He even has, as a side trait, that truth & lies schtick that everyone loves in Ouma. Several times during the game Komaeda will say a hard truth or reveal a bit of information about himself and then he will immediately take it back as a lie/joke. ("I was hoping that someone would be able to stop me.... just kidding!") Only Hinata starts picking up that it was the original statement that was the truth and the takeback that is the lie, but he ends up brushing it off as well.

Komaeda's luck is a curse that drove him insane/to despair long before he entered Hope's Peak and Junko got her claws into him. He's caught in a horrible cycle of bad luck & good luck, and despite all his claims, the good never makes up for the bad. (Unless you have some truly terrible parents, most people are going to chose them over having a large inheritance. Ask Bruce Wayne.) His bad luck rebounding back upon those close to him has left Komaeda completely isolated, disaffected, and emotionally distant. Stepping stones are easier to replace than people, after all. The encroaching dementia is not helping there.

When you take in his skewed point-of-view, all of his actions make a twisted logical sense. To him, hope & the greater good must have some despair to overcome to grow properly strong. The adversity is needed, it has to be... because with his luck that despair is coming whether you want it or not.

We even get to see a bit of his luck cycle in play during SDR2 where he uses his luck to achieve his short term goals, but then his greater long term goals get entirely hosed in the blowback.

He gets the short straw in the draw like he wanted, yet his attempt to get himself killed and become a stepping stone for hope (the entire reason he needed the short straw in the first place) backfires terribly and the leader of his beloved SHSLs dies instead.

He trusts his luck and wins the 5 bullet Russian roulette and the prize isn't what he wanted (info on Hinata's talent & how to help the other SHSLs) but the knowledge that everyone is SHSL Despair which drives him completely over the edge.

He trusts his luck one final time during his intricate suicide and the person he wants -- the traitor Nanami -- is the one who throws the fateful fire extinguisher. Except he did that to try and save her while getting everyone else killed, but the end result was the exact opposite.

SDR2 would have certainly been a whole lot less interesting without him. I think he makes an even better antagonist than Junko there. We actually see him manipulate other intelligent people into doing what he wants, even when he's severely disadvantaged (ie getting both Mahiru and Hinata to play Twilight Syndrome just by talking to them while he's tied down helpless on the floor).

Yet despite being at cross-purposes with the class, Komaeda is not malignantly against them (until the end of chapter 4 anyway), and so he ends up being incredibly helpful during investigations & trials (after all, he is SDR2 resident "evil" detective). However, due to his skewed p-o-v, you can't trust him to always be helpful. It adds a very unpredictable vibe that the game's detective is permanently stuck in Togami-dicking-around-the-crime-scene-in-chapter-2 mode.

I also particularly enjoy how (despite how all the lolHope memes go on) Komaeda is actually able to dial the crazy down and appear perfectly sane & normal (like for the majority of chapter 1). You can hold a seemingly completely reasonable conversation with him during free time or during an investigation until WHAM out comes the crazy at the end. If it was really was all crazy, all the time, I'd be the one running away screaming.

He also has my favorite rival dynamic with his protagonist which is as full of as much ambivalence as the rest of Komaeda's character.

He senses a kinship with Hinata (both of them having a talent fixation, both of them having no true talent), but he also wants Hinata to actually have a talent and be better than him (Komaeda is more fixated on finding SHSL ???'s forgotten talent than Hinata himself is), then of course he turns against Hinata when everyone is revealed as SHSL Despair and starts acting like a snot, except he's still dropping clues for Hinata (even clues about everyone being Despair before the start of Trial 4), and then starts bemoaning wtf he's doing.

From Hinata's end, as Komaeda points out, Hinata is really bitter over chapter 1, because he had actually liked & trusted Komaeda, so it was a true betrayal. Despite that Hinata remains the closest person to Komaeda and even understands him enough to be able to thwart his chapter 5 plan to save the traitor & kill everyone else off. When you compare Hinata's reaction to the rest of the class, who just blow off & disregard Komaeda as a lost cause, he actually pays attention & tries to figure out what Komaeda is trying to do (until he can't take it anymore and finally runs off). It's not just hatred, there's other feelings tangled in there as well. Considering all the time they spent together in chapter 1, Komaeda's attachment & Hinata's inability to completely disregard him make sense.

It's a hot mess, but that makes it an interesting dynamic.

As to DR3...

Well, it didn't ruin him completely like it did certain other characters.

It was a shallow implementation with him mostly just being there... doing nothing much in particular until the episode that gives the backstory to the Kimura and Ando break-up (which promptly gets him suspended from school for most of the series). At least we get Yukizome slapping him when he basically called himself trash again. (Komaeda is my favorite Dangan Ronpa character in the entire series, but boy does he need a lot of slapping).

DR3 does back up the sense of isolation with Komaeda already being the black sheep of the class early on in the year even before he had done anything crazy. And the two characters who were actually nice to him throughout, Nanami & Yukizome... yeah, nice fate there.

He then comes back to spectacularly fail to kill Junko, have a fanservice moment with Kamakura, warn everyone that rushing into the freaking mastermind's headquarters to rescue their teacher by themselves is dumb/dangerous (pulls his inverse lie schtick again when he then promptly does an about face about the rescue attempt)... and that's about it.

I know a lot of people were raging about his finding the hideout under the school campus by "luck" as total BS, but that is also one of Komaeda's traits. He completely disparages his own intelligence, effort, and other talents as merely "luck". All those clues that he dug up in the SDR2 investigations that no one else could find? Totally just luck. He had probably been avidly following & investigating the shenanigans going on at Hope's Peak the entire time from afar (or maybe I'm giving the DR3 writing too much credit here)

As to DR 2.5... that was actually the only part of the DR3 anime that I enjoyed. It was interesting seeing exactly how the 77th class was awakened from their comas, as full of plotholes, bullshit, and retcons as it was. ("I knew you're make it to the final level, Hinata." No, you did not, Komaeda. You "died" thinking you'd managed to kill them all off!)

The SDR2 characters that were featured seemed even more in character than in DR3 proper with notable divergences due to this being Komaeda's world, like Souda x Sonia existing. (Apparently Komaeda really likes rooting for the underdog) Plus the moment where the building collapses on DR3 Komaeda and it's SDR2 Komaeda who stands up and tosses the rubble away is pretty badass.

Then of course Komaeda denies everything about the world of his innermost psyche. That he wanted normal friendships. That he wanted to bring all the bad luck down upon himself and spare the rest of the world. That he's actually bitter as hell over talent (like the *% talent that screwed him & his loved ones over) & hope. I kind of wish it had been actual Hinata who had seen that, although they're sending in an AI program for privacy reasons makes sense.

Interesting enough, Komaeda doesn't start babbling about hope to the two SHSL Hope's that he gets to meet after that point. He actually starts gushing about luck to Naegi. I don't know if that's supposed to be character development or DR3 being OOC again.

In conclusion... holy shit I hope Mr. Ultimate Ultimate cured Komaeda's dementia before he woke him up.

He seemed normal enough during Side: Hope, but we know that Komaeda can fake "normal" and I would not want to be trapped on a boat with a Komaeda that is still displaying symptoms of apathy, lack of inhibition/self control, and obsessive behavior. And hopefully Hinata's luck can cancel Komaeda's, otherwise that boat is totally hitting an iceberg (yes, in the middle of a tropical sea)

Komaeda is one of my favourite characters in all Danganronpa games.

Thing is, he didn't used to be. When I was playing DR2 (which I started playing unspoiled and unaware of what awaited me ahead) I hated him for about 90% of the game. The fact that I didn't talk to him during the free time in game also didn't help — I seriously thought of him as a total egocentric jerk, who constantly mocked other characters and, despite saying that he "loves them" was bloody trying to kill them right from the start of the game. Oh, and a cherry on top — he was obviously a psychopath and creeped the hell out of me. It was one of a few times I hated a fictional character and wished Hinata to snap at some point and just beat the hell out of Komaeda, because Komaeda deserved it so much..!

And then came the FTE in the bonus mode, and… Hell, was I wrong. It's not that I felt sorry for him because of his family dying in a horrible accident. When it comes to psychopaths in fiction almost every single one of them has some horrible event happened in their past that turned them from a nice guy to a killing machine with no empathy towards others. What actually made me change the way I looked at Komaeda was his sickness.

When you think about it, it's pretty depressing — he could have been a normal boy, and not just normal — a boy who is nice, smart, lonely and wanting to interact with other people... And whose mind and sanity are getting destroyed by a disease that can't be cured and will eventually end up killing him. And even more — he is doomed to be alone for the rest of his life, because his Ultimate talent just happens to kill every single person close to him. Lovely.

When you start rethinking everything he says and does in the game from this point of view, you kind of start thinking about him in a different way.

So now to me Komaeda is one of the most ambiguous and interesting characters of the series.

hope

Well, since the guy's my absolute favorite in the series and has pretty much been a substantial part of the last 3 or so years for me, I guess I should say something on the dude.

Guess I should start with the things I think could have been better:

DR3 Komaeda sucks. He has his moments but like every other character he's just made into a complete joke. Why is every single one of his lines "Haha, I'm so lucky"? Like, luck didn't even come up at ALL in DR:AE. Wouldn't say he really stole screentime, since he was literally offscreen for a good 2-3 episodes and the writers still couldn't do anything fucking useful with any of the other characters, but alas, he does take up time.

The OVA is the biggest fucking waste of potential ever. You don't fucking actually decide to acknowledge a character's complexity and quite frankly a big part about them and then go "lol jk he's still a hope-loving tool". Like, if they didn't want him to actually be impacted in any way, then don't give him an OVA. That simple.

Kinda falls into DR's trap of "we're going make this character talk about something for like, ever". I get Komaeda's supposed to be obsessive, and it doesn't really annoy me, but he's not immune to some of the series' bigger faults, and kind of just feeds into the whole "these characters don't seem like real people" thing that applies to a whole heck of a lot of characters. DR also likes to throw around really abstract themes around casually, so of course he's still gonna be affected. Alas, at least the characters don't actually understand him, so the point is made.

There are a few plot contrivances. One being in Chapter 1 where he really had no way of knowing whether bringing drawing sticks would be necessary or not even if he DID send the letter, and one in Chapter 3 where they literally just bullshitted the whole "i was drifting in and out of consciousness" thing. Like, it would have been believable if we had known exactly what he saw, but it's so damn vague...well, it's not canon, but his POV manga does have Tsumiki like...on top of him trying to give him a shot...I think.

MOVING ON, things I do like (I'll try to keep it short):

He is actually fucking cool as a dark hero concept. He's tied to Naegi in a lot of ways yet he still manages to be his own character with his own personality. Hell- okay this is subjective, but he actually manages to be a lot MORE interesting than Naegi.

Speaking of parallels, I'm a slut for the similarities/differences between him and Hinata. The whole thing about feeling like your worthless, yet underneath it all, striving for that kind of recognition and confidence in yourself...that's some pretty cool stuff man. Speaking of, it's almost kinda like while Naegi and Komaeda seem similar at first, but are in actuality very different, Komaeda and Hinata seem different at first, but are in actuality very similar. Komaeda's actually a great rival in general, and regardless of what you think of KomaHina, you can't say their dynamic wasn't pretty cool. I mean, hell, they're on equal ground the whole game, have conflicting personalities that bounce off of each other fantastically, they have matching poses, even some of their sprites are basically the same. It's lit.

Sure, his backstory's motherfucking ridiculous, but the whole idea of him clinging on to hope because his life is so terrible is so simple it's clever. His last line before he goes to kill himself ("Because..if one believes in hope...then a path will open..."), one of his lines in his second FTE ("Since right now, my reason for living like this is hope itself!") and one of the lines from his default Dangan Island ending ("Well, if that's true...then maybe hope is much simpler than I thought it to be. It's just something that can brighten your day a little, even if all you have is a life of misfortune ahead of you.") ARE SO MUCH FUCKING SADDER WITH THIS IN MIND. HELL.

The way they expanded on his luck in his Dangan Island mode event is actually really creative and cool. Like, it opens up a whole different facet of his character, and this is something the DI events and even some of the FTE events for different characters really fail to do. It also provides a cool contrast to how his luck is really the only thing he can believe in even if he hates it.

His FTEs are probably the best in the game. Like not because of his backstory or whatever, I'd say some of the more realistic ones are better in that regard, but because they tell their own mini-arc. I guess all the FTEs are like that, but lots of them tend to meander, or choose to reveal all the tragic sob stuff at a really awkward time, and it's just so vaguely went around that it's kind of hard to really feel the connection.

I love how his intelligence was incorporated into his character, aside from like, episode 8 of Despair Arc. Like, playing as him, and even outside of that and during the investigations, you just get the sense that, wow, this guy's really fucking smart, and it's actually SHOWN as opposed to just you getting told that.

2-5 was motherfucking savage, and honestly? Isn't it KIND OF fucked up that the series paints wanting to kill off a GROUP OF TERRORISTS WHO DESTROYED THE WORLD as a BAD thing? Like, I don't give a fuck how good of kids they are, and hell- I love them too- but they destroyed the damn world, but because Naegi said it's okay, it's okay. But like, Team Motherfucking Komaeda on this one. What a hardcore badass. If Naegi's like jesus, then I'm calling Komaeda anti-jesus. Not to mention he literally crucifies himself in the stage play. I'm not joking. He fucking does it.

Despite all the lines about hope that could have been something more meaningful and nuanced, lots of Komaeda's dialogue is really fucking well-written. The "a penguin will never be able to fly" line? Iconic. Him announcing that he'll end the mutual killing and denouncing the whole thing as a game of self-righteous hypocrisy? Iconic. Him taunting Akane by telling her that if she really wanted to hurt him, she should stab out his eyes instead? Iconic. His DR0 reference that fits into the context of what he found in the files as well? Iconic. Him saying he's becoming so bored that he's growing stomach ulcers? Iconic. His entire final video message, jam packed with so many cool characterization bits? Iconic. That's not even mentioning how HILARIOUS his can be at times. He's not even a comedic character, but imma be real, he can be REALLY FUNNY. Like it's just his ridiculousness. It's hysterical.

...well, okay, so much for keeping it short.

Alas, I love this dude. Like, seriously. What a character. Dude's on an entirely new level.

I understand Komaeda is just overrated and used to rake in that fanservice cash but... I love him so much. I'd do anything for this boyo. What a good character.

[S]So looking at the activity in the Impostor's discussion I've decided that the DR3 character discussions will be biweekly on Monday's and Thursday's. They will all be posted on these days going forward.

Sorry this might come as a surprise to some people seeing this thread up now, please bear with me as I was figuring out the new schedule.

As for why Nagito is getting another discussion despite already having one, his previous character discussion happened before DR3 aired, and there's enough new material involving him shown in DR3 and DR2.5 to warrant a new discussion. Hope that clears away any confusion!

If that's the case, should we be getting Bandai's today? I know things happen, so there's a chance you may have run into something that led to delay or we changed the posting date.

[S] 
Yes, likely in an hour.

I actually vastly prefer the way his luck works in DR3 in contrast to how he abuses it in DR2-5.

That he works meticulously to make a plan only for it to fall apart and then ultimately succeed and the fact that his actions have terrible consequences for other people (Ruruka & friends) explains why he is so convinced that his talent is worthless and why he believes so fervently that despair is simply a stepping stone to hope.

In contrast, in DR2-5 literally everything goes exactly the way he plans it, to the point where he may as well have Junko's Ultimate Analysis. It reduces his talent from being a phenomenon that is central to his character to simply a plot contrivance that makes the 5th chapter solvable.

Absolutely hated this piece of trash for the first 3 trials and well into the 4th, but damn if he didn't end up being the best character in the series.

Nagito is, without a doubt one of the best written character in the series. He's a character that you love to hate (and he seems to love being hated too). He's not one of my favorites, but he's high up there.

In DR3 he's just as great as he was in DR2. A mysterious hope boi with a weird type of rotating luck. He seems more sane than he did in DR2, but that is most likely because of the different environment and atmosphere.

I also liked 2.5. It was so fun to watch Nagito not be himself for a change, plus I loved his new relationship with Kazuichi and Fuyuhiko. I like to think that Nagito considers them to be his best friends in the class, but they probably don't feel the same way.

I like him, but I don't see him as he best character as most people do.

He also appeared in the OVA

Honestly I don't really enjoy Nagito's character but I can understand why people like him. To others he's an interesting character that makes you feel things, for me, he's a love to hate character.

I honestly don't know what else to say

status: fictional :(

Komaeda is one of my favourite characters. I'll likely get a lot of shit for this, but I find him way more interesting and entertaining than I ever did Ouma and don't get the hype about Ouma over him. Ouma fans call Ouma a way more complex, interesting and entertaining character than Komaeda ever was but all I see is discount Komaeda in Ouma.

With that said though, DR3 Komaeda felt wholly unnecessary and extra, like the only reason he got prominent screentime and an entire OVA that didn't add much was just cause they knew what a fan favourite he was. Overall I found most returning DR2 characters to have gotten worse in DR3 so that's not a surprise, and I found most of the HPA Uniform designs a lot worse too.

Komaeda looks great in his DR2 design and wonky as hell in his school uniform.

I actually pretty well dislike Nagito. He's easily one of the creepiest characters in the franchise, and his overall outlook on life is downright insane. I'm not going to suggest that he isn't interesting, because he certainly did his best to make everything terrible, but I just don't see how he has such a large fanbase.

It'd be one thing if he had some balancing points to him, but I can't really think of a part of his character that's redeeming. Self-loathing yet narcissistic, he doesn't seem to care about people for who they are, but instead for what they do. His whole idolization of the talented people in this world reminds me of how someone in a cult would act- If you're talented, you're a god that can do no wrong, but if you aren't, he'll spew some holier-than-thou rhetoric at you. God forbid you go against his hope ideology too, because then he really goes full-blown cult member on you. He has some very serious mental health issues, and I have a very hard time seeing him having a positive friendship/relationship/whatever with any living being. He's basically a foil for Chiaki's "literally perfect" persona. (Which is also annoying, but she isn't the subject here.) Nagito is an incredibly one-dimensional and lopsided character, while simultaneously perpetuating the c o m p l e x m o t i v e s meme. Quite the paradox.

I also take issue with his luck gimmick. I get that it was supposed to be a spin on "if luck were an actual talent" sort of thing, but it gets old incredibly fast. I would probably give it more of a pass if Nagito had gotten unlucky more often (since that's part of the alleged magical luck power), but everything pretty much just goes his way on principle. I can't think of one instance where something seriously just didn't go his way at all during the killing game. Chapter 5 was basically the final straw in terms of my tolerance for his nonsense.

DR3 just reaffirmed my dislike of him, but that isn't saying much since I pretty much hated the whole production. No character was done justice in that, to be honest. I will say, however, that having an OVA dedicated to him was ridiculous and fanservice-y to the extreme. There was no point other than to cash in on the fandom boner.

It's great and all if you like him, but I really just can't find anything appealing about him. A total miss for me.

Oh my god I hate Nagito so much.

The thing is that is the point of him I feel. He's essentially the secondary antagonist of DR2. But it really does feel like they ruined a potentially great villain to appeal to a fanbase for him that I'll never be able to fully comprehend. He was interesting in Chapter 1. He got annoying in Chapters 2 and 3 that his dialogue was entering "Oh shut up" territory, and in Chapter 4 when he started to show his true colours, it went to pure hate. Anything outside of SDR2 is just eh. He's borderline detestable in DR3:Despair, it is lame that he is the only one from DR2 (aside from a short cameo at the very end) in Despair Girls, and I haven't watched the OVA because good lord if this comment isn't clear I have had enough of the Hope fetishist for the time being.

Of all the SDR2 characters, he was the only one I don't believe deserves a happy ending. He certainly didn't earn it. Even in the DR3 anime they showed that despite him being so subservient to his classmates, he's an egotist who looks down on people, he's oddly selfish in that he has zero consideration and/or care for how his reckless actions effect people outside of his little hope bubble, and he really is a blatantly dangerous psychopath even before Junko got her claws into him.

Honestly, the only good thing I can say about him is that he gave us the best trial in the entire series.

Personally I think dr3 gets way too much hate. Is it as good as the games? No but I feel like its strengths cover up most of its weaknesses.

That said I always found it odd that Nagito was forgiven and allowed to be on the boat party. It just doesn't seem in character for nagito to not want to continue to try killing the 77th class or for the class to just brush aside the things he put them through.

I

Unpopular opinion: Nagito's overrated.

not really all that unpopular of an opinion. lots of people think that. hell, any character that's popular will be called "overrated" at some point.

Best boy

I'm neutral with him, he's not bad but he isn't one of the best, in my opinion, and is a little overrated. He sais he loves Hope but does everything to bring Despair to other people and wants everyone who doesn't have a talent to die. I initially thought he was the traitor in Danganronpa 2 instead of Chiaki (It was said that the traitor wasn't from Hope's Peak and I thought Hope's Peak would never accept an individual like him in the school, with or without luck). I would have preferred if he was the traitor and the Mastrmind in Danganronpa 2, he deserved it since he was evil, but I guess they didn't do it because he would've won being the Ultimate Lucky Student.

"he wants everyone who doesn't have a talent to die"

kind of an overstatement. i think his point is that they're more suited to become stepping stones, hence why he's always so willing to take the plunge himself. but like, he doesn't go up to hinata and say "fucking kill yourself". hell, he doesn't even actually hate talentless people. he says this as much to hinata in one of their DRV3 bonus mode events, and even then in the main story, him sensing that he was a normie from the start was a big part as to why he felt connected to him (stated in his 5th FTE).

probs the only person he truly hates is junko. now THAT is a person he wants to see die, even when she's already dead the dude can't stop.

Fuck Nagito.

Nah actually as a character he's great but fuck Nagito.

He did nothing wrong.

I lost all my respect from Nagito after DR3, he pretty much Became Kodaka's Cashcow, he took alot more screentime than anyone in DR2 in DR3 (even had an entire episode on him for christ sake), after he returns to his class, he magically knows all of Junko's plans.

But the elephant in the room here is the Goddamn OVA, yes, instead of making a V3 OVA, they wasted materials in this shit, which has nothing new, the stuff that happens in it doesn't even matter in the end. It's literally just stuff we've seen before, they could've made a V3 OVA of some sorts to kind of get a taste to how the V3 cast will look like animated if they made a anime with them, BUT nooooooo, let's go with the Hopes's peak saga AGAIN beacuse Nagito is in it.

Ah, one of the best character discussion topics. Nagito Komaeda (an anagram of Makoto Naegi) shares the same voice actor with the other lucky counterpart, but in the English version he sounds a lot more dramatic.

I think his super high school level luck is quite possibly the most powerful trait in the series.

I'm going to throw a monkey wrench into the theories of every anime hater and say that I LOVED the DR3 Anime. Nagito was this awesome fool/jester like character who walked around knowing that he didn't need to try that hard because he was so incredibly powerful.

"Oh, I guess my luck isn't so bad after all" he says sardonically, with an innocent smile.

he sucks

[deleted]

NDRV3 and the Hope's Peak Saga (DR1, SDR2, DR2.5, DR3) exist in different continuities in the NDRV3 ending. So the ending of NDRV3 doesn't affect the canon status of the others.

Basically, in the world of NDRV3, which you could think of like a parallel universe to our world or something, the Hope's Peak Saga is a series of video games and anime, just like it is in our world (but NDRV3 is not our world either). It's suggested to be exactly as real for Tsumugi, Shuichi, etc. as it is for us. The NDRV3 killing life participants are real people who the mastermind claimed to have brainwashed and implanted memories in until the point they were just fictional characters, who had never lived the lives they remembered living, so that they could play televised killing games inspired by the fictional ones that happened in Danganronpa 1 and 2.

In the world of DR2.53 and DR3, the Hope's Peak Saga is the reality they live in. The Tragedy was a real event that happened to real people and the SDR2 cast were real people who became Ultimate Despair and entered the Neo World Program. So it's canon for them and continuous.

It's like if someone wrote a story about your life and fictionalised it slightly, that work would be fiction but your life would not. In this analogy, the story about someone's life is NDRV3, your life is Danganronpa. Except NDRV3 is also held to be real in its own world, like most fiction.

I hope that helped!

Basically, in the world of NDRV3, which you could think of like a parallel universe to our world or something, the Hope's Peak Saga is a series of video games and anime, just like it is in our world (but NDRV3 is not our world either).

That's still not 100% guaranteed. Although the masterminded really wanted for it too look that way there were also enough "clues" that the events of at least 1st 2 DR games were indeed real. Just enough that you can't say for certain whether it was fiction or not.

Sure, but I feel like it helps the person whose comment I see now is deleted to explain the intentions behind the noncontinuity where they had a misconception behind what it was meant to mean on the surface level, since that's what they were asking for, rather than the many possibilities it's continuous or there were lies. Especially since this thread is about Komaeda. I'm not sure if you saw the parent comment, but they were looking for an answer to a specific question.

I could have accounted for the ending being open ended better, but my comment was explaining basically what Tsumugi was trying to convey. From there it's their choice whether to believe it or not or to look deeper into the evidence of the HPS continuity. So I think yours is fair too. But my intention wasn't at all to be comprehensive.

I think he would easily be one of the best written characters if they gave him a reason for loving hope so much.

2nd best if not best written character in the series for me

That does not mean I enjoy his presence however

I realize this is a week late but my favorite thing about Nagito is the very intentional use of color in his design. Knowing nothing about him, his color scheme alone tells you something is off--the combination of red and green in his clothing is the same combo that Wes Craven used when designing Freddy Krueger's outfit to make audiences uneasy. That, combined with his white hair and grey-green eyes...the guy just looks sick, and as it turns out, he is. He's one of my favorite designs, and not for flashy reasons (like Tenko or Miu) but because of the obvious thought that went into every aspect of his clothing and appearance. Thanks for reading, one person who will see this!

I've never been a huge Komaeda fan, but I won't pretend he's a poorly written character... In the game. In the anime, it seems like they decided to have the main characters from the previous games hog the spotlight for no real reason, and they don't get the same weight as they do in the game. Nagito's got backstory, and I like Hajime and Chiaki, but the anime should've focused on someone else (maybe Hiyoko should've gotten her time to shine, her stubbornness could've made her the last holdout against Junko's influence of Class 77).

Nagito could've been played any number of ways in how he helps or hurts Junko's machinations, but instead he's just one of the crowd... Despite the fact that the cast is supposed to be a bunch of snowflakes that are all unique from one another...

His place in the plot is strange where he's somehow making the plot move forward and backward at the same time. He gets the candy crew expelled, but he also ends up getting himself expelled which doesn't impact anything and actually makes it seem like the school might be somewhat competent despite the rest of Despair arc encouraging us to think the opposite. Not to mention that his getting expelled actually ends up causing trouble with the plot, so they apparently decide to let him back in after six months for blowing up part of the school. It's just kind of weird.

He's a gai bae,,

'nuff said

broken record character with motives too complex for us plebs to understand. hope and despair was tired out enough by the end of the first game.

Character Discussion #46 - Miaya Gekkogahara (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

CLICK TO SEE SPOILER
SPOILER

Is this legal? In order for it be a "character discussion" doesn't there need to be, you know, an actual character to discuss about? Doesn't really seem to apply here...

The only thing I can say about the both of them is that they were some of the biggest waste of potential in the entire series, which is a shame.

That goes especially for Miaya. You'd think one of the creators of the Neo World Program, a big plot point in DR2, would be treated better than that. At least Monaca had a lot of screen time in UDG.

Some people may think that the worst character is one you hate, but for me, the worst character is one I can't feel anything for. Just total apathy. That's what Miaya is to me.

What a waste of a good character design. :(

Damn, what a complex character. The emotional turmoil she goes through, her internal and external conflicts. Damn, I wish I could write a character like Miaya.

Also, Monaka's arc was handled terribly. Why even have her survive in the first place if she was going to turn into a NEET and fuck off to the moon?

Also Toko and Komaru suddenly saying "omg i hope shes fine" instead of "fuck that bih for destroying the city and killing thousands"

tbf, it'd be weird for them to be COMPLETELY unapologetic (well okay maybe fukawa would still be), because despite how awful monaka is, she's still like...11? 12?

though really they should be a lot more worried then "well maybe this isn't the last we'll see of her" i mean she DID do a lot of shit.

because despite how awful monaka is, she's still like...11? 12?

Plus she had Haji for an older brother. Doesn't excuse a single thing she did, but you gotta admit that life was stacked against her sanity or happiness from day one.

Miaya had my favourite design going into DR3. I loved it, it was super cute and I loved the scarf/headphones. She intrigued me with her talent, relation to the Neo World Program and I thought she'd be a major player.

Even before DR3 was aired people theorized she'd be related to Monaca or was Monaca due to having the same hairstyle but I thought it was utterly silly and absurd.

As the first few episodes ran through I loved Miaya, she was what I was hoping for and was funny with her Monomi antics, wheelchair shenanigans and overall caring nature.

Then the stupid robot reveal happened and Monaca was really controlling some robot.

I think the part I'm most upset about was that there really was a Miaya Gekkogahara out there, and we never got to know them one bit. I'm going to assume that the Miaya Monaca played was pretty close to the real one cause none of the other FF Heads seemed to notice anything, but it feels like such a waste of a great design and possibly intriguing character. She just felt like such a non character.

Monaca's arc herself was garbage why even bother having a UDG episode.

Tbf people used to think Maki is Monaca

And Komaru was Junko because they had a similar stance in some artwork.

Spoilers

Others have already covered how horribly shafted the "real" Miaya was in DR3 pretty cohesively, so I won't retread the same points. However, I will say that as a transforming robot Mechagahara was pretty fucking awesome. 10/10 death robot, would play in fighting game spin-off.

However, I do have to diverge from what seems to be the consensus here in regards to Monaca. I think that her plot line, as short as it was, was actually pretty fitting for the character when you consider it as a progression from her appearance in Ultra Despair Girls. The previous discussion on Monaca Towa linked in the OP actually has several people explain this topic far better than I can, so I'd strongly recommend checking it out if this idea holds any interest for you.

The key thing to understand about Monaca's character is that at her core, she's still a kid. A kid that is both incredibly smart and horrifically evil, but a kid nonetheless. Her driving motivation in UDG is her idolization of Junko, meaning that she does everything she does out of a childish desire to emulate the object of her obsession. She cared about the conflict between Hope and Despair because Junko cared, rather than out of any sort of personal attachment to the concepts herself. When her plans fall apart at the end of the game, the despair she feels is an unwelcome surprise and she's unable to accept it. Monaca got her first taste of real despair and unlike Junko, she found that she didn't like it.

After that emotionally devastating experience Monaca spends the time between UDG and DR3 learning to be Junko's successor, aided by Nagito prior to his departure for the events of DR2. We all know that Nagito's speeches about hope and despair can come off as insane ramblings even at the best of times, so imagine being exposed to a constant stream of that for an extended period of time when you don't actually give a shit about any of the ideas he's espousing. Nagito is a pretty contradictory guy, so it makes sense that any efforts on his part to instruct Monaca on his perception of the dichotomy between hope and despair would only further confuse her on a subject she was already uncertain about.

So after having her ideas of hope/despair even further confused, her teacher goes off with the rest of the Remnants of Despair on a mission that somehow drags in the Ultimate Hope himself! The result? Said Ultimate Hope leaves the island unscathed while leaving the status of the remnants completely unknown. Regardless of how much information Monaca has the situation, one thing she knows for sure is that her idol's despair lost once again.

Now, at some point during this time Monaca killed Miaya Gekkogahara and inserted a robot imitation into the Future Foundation. Whatever the original purpose the action had, once the FF killing game starts she uses this infiltrator to observe the events of the game and more specifically, the actions of Makoto Naegi. I think she wanted to observe him as some kind of last ditch effort to find meaning in Hope/Despair by inspecting the other side of the spectrum. She had engrossed herself with the side of despair to no benefit, so maybe she thought that getting to know the opposition could provide some insight that Nagito could not. We know for certain that she was judging Naegi by all her comments about him being a wimp, so I think my logic checks out. This is why she attached herself to him so closely in the beginning of the anime.

However, as the killing game progressed she came to be totally disappointed by what she saw. The Ultimate Hope who had defeated her beloved Junko wasn't some bastion of righteousness or whatever, but instead some wimp who got his ass kicked the moment he arrived and had to rely on girls as soon as things got tough. I think this is why she went out of her way to protect him despite having every reason to hate the guy. She kept on hoping that he would reveal some awesome side to himself that would justify his victory over Junko, so she helped him in an effort to give him more time to do so. He never did though (although ironically she might've seen his better side if she had stuck around a bit longer).

Despair was a bust and Hope was a disappointment. After starting off with no strong commitment to the two ideas, event after event occurred that further weakened her belief in them. Finally, she decides that it isn't worth dealing with anymore and shows her age by just quitting all together. Just as her brother gave up on hope and despair after dealing with the clusterfuck that was UDG's ending, Monaca writes off Hope/Despair as too difficult for her and gives up entirely.

After the Tragedy she'd basically devoted her life to following Junko's will, so after throwing in the towel there really isn't anything left for her on Earth. Ultimately, she decides to divorce herself from the struggles of the world in the most literal way possible and runs off to space where she doesn't have to worry about the hardships of reality. (Except for food and shit, but she didn't seem too concerned so I assume she had that covered somehow. Or she intended to die in space and so had no need for it.)

Positives: Good design

Negatives: No character, like at all.

What can you even say about Miaya? The way this character was handling wasn't just poorly done, it's a giant middle finger to everyone if they were familiar with the series prior to watching DR3, though not so much to newcomers.

But then again, let's face it. DR 3 was just a huge grab for viewers that haven't seen DR before as a way to get them up to speed in case they shied away from ndrv3 because they felt they needed knowledge of the previous games to understand it. The game sales and the influx of users at this page are both testaments to that, so even though it spoiled viewers to DR 1, 2 and probably a bit of UDG, it still helped get those sales.

In any event, the moment you see "ultimate therapist" it would raise a huge red flag to anyone who played DR 2. There were still a ton of unresolved plotpoints that should have been covered in DR 2, but you can still have a ton of potential for a character like this. What does she think the right thing to do with the remnants of despair was? What all went into the making of the program?

You have so many questions and possibilities you could explore with this kind of character, but instead she's used as a cheap bait and switch for being a robot, and even that was a bait and switch in itself since they brought in the warriors of hope solely to tell you they exist and have them just bloat Dr3 more without actually doing anything.

The short of it is that on paper, DR 3 actually works quite well—the future/despair arc effectively functions as the main story and free time events to both give you the current progression and then have despair arc contextualize everything. Despair arc has the added benefit of being able to focus on characters that die early, which is one of the biggest challenges DR has to work with. Instead, they bite off more than they can chew and throw in too many different plot points for the story to work well, probably because they wanted it to be a catch all to catch up newcomers.

The character herself was fairly cool with a lot of her cool gadgets with her wheelchair, almost like Bentley from the Sly Cooper series in a way. All of that is immediately lost the moment they reveal a robot.

Of course, that doesn't make up for her complete lack of a character. Even if you wanted to say she's a robot, you could at the very least show the real Miaya in despair arc, maybe show what happened to her, but no. Let's just make her a robot and then never explain anything about the real person beyond Monaca briefly saying "lol killed her some time ago that's it." It'd be better to either do this with a different character who doesn't raise the huge red flag of the ultimate therapist we had brought up in DR 2 like say Bandai or someone if you absolutely had to make one of the characters a robot.

Danganronpa has very rarely had issues with a poor setup and every time it has problems it's because the idea was poorly executed. Miaya is no exception and nothing more than a huge bait and switch.

I don't really care for Monaca or the robot Miaya, but poor real Miaya. She was brutally murdered for, well, no reason at all? I admittedly don't remember that much, but what was Monaca even trying to accomplish in the killing game? Have revenge on Naegi? Didn't she mostly helped them out outside of that little "prank"?

Man, I hate DR3.

She just wanted to see Naegi up close without having to actually encounter him. If you want to count anthology comics as official enough to bring up in character discussions there was a story where once she saw Naegi she both was disappointed that he was so normal--thinking he isn't the kind of person Komaeda would be into, and also she felt like Naegi was so purely into hope like Junko was so purely into despair that she just had no place inserting herself into the conflict. So she decides to just go to space.

Well I DISAGREE. Yeah some parts of future weren't that great but despair was pretty darn cool, esp Junko Enoshima.

she probably murdered Miaya because of the advantage to invade Future Foundation because on DR Wiki it says she was shy

The Ultimate Corpse

Biggest waste of potential in this anime, which is sad because she was one of the most popular characters going into this anime. Miaya perfectly exemplifies DR3's issue with how poorly it handles its new cast. You have probably the most interesting character from the cast, and instead of expanding the Neo World Program and adding new mysteries, Miaya is used for a lazy bait and switch plot point that didn't matter in the end.

DR3 has a big problem with how it uses the new cast because they set up many of its characters with tons of potential and builds them up to be dynamic and intriguing characters, but are screwed over by the shitty writing of the anime. Characters who at first seems complex and unique are written in the most unsatisfying way possible and are ultimately forgotten. DR3's cast is wasted material, and Miaya's entire character(or lack there of since we only see her corpse for five seconds and that's it) represents the glaring issue with how little care the writers had for this cast.

[S]It's not in the title to avoid spoilers but use this thread to talk about Monaca in DR3 as well!

I... I wish Miaya was more, I really wish Miaya has a character was a lot more. DR3 Monaca was entertaining for sure but even that didn't feel like Monaca Towa's character in UDG. Eh... what else can I really say

Great design. I love her. I love the nothingbot

Also why did nobody know what year or class she was in at Hope's Peak Academy if there was literally nothing fishy about her character??

It's like that entire bit of pre release info was just to make us suspicious of her but there's no reason for that in universe?

It was like a double dosage of wasted potential. For a character who was apparently so important to setting up SDR2, Miaya was given the most pointless death in the series and was never even seen alive. And Monaca was the most interesting villain IMO who they just basically wrote off for what came across as another attempt at saying "LOOK, NAGITO SAVED THE DAY AGAIN!". I say this about Nagito because her reasons for throwing in the towel are solely because he bored her with all his hope rantings which, in a running theme of DR3, completely ruined a great ending scene in Despair Girls between the pair.

Who?

[+11]Wow RIP

Well, getting to watch Munakata use his Munakatana to fight a robot piloting a wheelchair mech was pretty sweet, so I say she was pretty cool, at least for a filler character with no character development. I'm also a sucker for characters that are unexpressive but have some kind of communication method where they are supper peppy, so Usami/Monomi as her "voice" was fun.

I ship her with Keebo

Oh damn, character discussions are back, I gotta go back and see if there's anything I want to add for the previous guys!

Miaya was certainly a missed opportunity. Given the abundance of psychological issues among the cast, she should be one of the most important characters in the Dangan-verse, but she disappeared before we see her in person. However, that doesn't mean we have nothing to work with or that she has no personality. People largely seem to be ignoring the fact that Monaca's impersonation of her raised absolutely no eyebrows until the corpse was discovered, so it's probably safe to assume that Miaya acted similarly to Monaca's fake when she was still alive.

Not only that, the replacement couldn't have been a long term thing, given that the corpse was found relatively early (hence it probably wasn't that well hidden), and was... fresh, I'll say. Monaca would have had to replace Gekkogahara within a few days of the meeting, even though Miaya was presumably a part of the organization for years and any description given of her would reflect the real person, not the robot. Monaca may have even chosen to replace Miaya specifically because of the quirks that made it easy for her to slip in unnoticed, which is doubly tragic given that Monaca didn't even want to do anything, she apparently just wanted a front row seat to Naegi's trial.

It's stated that Gecko girl is shy, and while we can't be sure that the aversion to touching was there for the real girl, the fortress of a wheelchair she lives in seems to suggest it was the case then as well. For Monaca, this serves a convenient excuse to keep her cover despite the replacement being a robot. However, given that the original was in a wheelchair, there are some potentially very unpleasant questions of what happened to her in the past. Abusive relationship/upbringing? Tragic accident? Simple bad luck of being born both needing the help of others to live and being unwilling to interact with them? None of them really make her past sound like a happy time.

Given the machanized wheelchair (yes, I know it's a robot once Monaca replaces her, but she must have had a fancy wheelchair before or people would have spotted her right away) Miaya seems to have been some kind of techie as well as a therapist. The fact that nobody seems to be concerned with her trying to hack into the mainframe when they get captured indicates to me that she's probably at least tried this sort of thing before. Not to mention that she apparently played a large role in building the Neo world program, a massive computer and technological marvel, while they don't mention having any real tech specialists apart from Ryota (who doesn't seem like a very computer savvy guy), and maybe Alter Ego (who couldn't have built the physical machine).

That does raise the question of why she's the Ultimate Therapist if she's so good with computers, but I would guess it's just that she's such a good therapist that her tech skill seems like small potatoes by comparison. Granted, the anime doesn't say what kind of therapist she's supposed to be (maybe she's actually really good at giving massages :P) but it probably means a psychological therapist, so I'm going to go with that.

Obviously I could just leave the title of Ultimate Therapist to be self-explanatory, but DR generally gives some reason for a person to be an Ultimate beyond "they are good at the thing". Also obvious is the fact that we can't know what the actual explanation is because it was never given to us, so I'm going to make one up, and it will probably be inaccurate and worse than whatever the writers actually meant for her to be when she was first drafted, but it's better than nothing. Won't you join me on this merry jaunt into madness?

Gekkogahara was often bullied as a child, her physical frailty and relatively mild personality making her an easy target. One day, they went too far, and the doctor's said that poor Miaya would never walk again. Her parents, while aloof, weren't entirely absent, and bought her a wheelchair to allow her to continue with her life. The bullies weren't brave enough to outright harass her now, especially since the eyes of everyone, but they still took a cruel satisfaction in damaging her wheelchair when nobody was watching. She quickly grew tired of not being able to move without calling for help, and learned to fix the chair herself. As she learned of the machine, she started to notice those around her, so blighted by problems as they were. The problems of machines were easy to fix, but her now piqued mind hungered to learn more, to explore in ways that wouldn't be hindered by her lack of mobility. She learned the secrets of the mind through study, and as she interacted with people, discovered that they were not too unlike machines, with consistent causes to similar problems. A mind is a complicated machine to be sure, but she was quickly recognized as a girl able to fix it. Her time in Hope's peak was a breeze, and she took to her work with the Future foundation with zeal, despite barely speaking to her coworkers outside her office.

I could only speculate as to why the writers deigned to kill her off before the story even started, but my best guess is this: Dangan Ronpa isn't a place where people get better (unless your name is Kyoko Kirigiri I guess). It's a place where tragedies happen and people die for no good reason, and no death embodies it quite like someone with a somewhat tragic backstory and skills that could help everyone being unceremoniously removed because it was expedient for someone who basically just wanted to watch the show.

Yeah it's a real shame that they didn't even bother to show her besides her corpse.

I mean you hear about how she doesn't like physical contact and doesn't like to talk so she uses a computer to talk for her. That sounds a lot like me to be honest.

Doesn't help that they show the real Miaya' corpse with her head twisted all the way to the other side of her body and her lifeless eyes. (Probably the most brutal death in the whole DR3 anime next to Chiaki's execution despite not appearing)

A waste of a lot of good potential. Though if I were to fix her character instead of changing future arc I'd rewrite Despair arc by cutting out Nagito being suspended and instead place him in a subplot that brings Miaya and Matsuda into the story. Matsuda because Junko would probably work better if she was introduced as a background character instead of stealing half the show. If Nagito finds out what she's up to then let the audience get to know her through his POV on what's going on. Miaya wouldn't have a huge role in this scenario but at least she'd have something for herself by being his therapist.

Regarding Miaya;

Huge disappointment as a character. They could've fleshed her out in the Despair arc but didn't for whatever reason. I was hoping at some point we could get a light novel about her, but since DR3 came out a while ago and V3 is what's currently on everyone's minds. That chance of more content on her is seeming less and less likely.

The robot did cool things though, I guess.

Regarding Monaca;

Honestly, I'm not sure how they could've ended her arc. I know people were disappointed in how it ended. The fact is how could've they ended it? With what little time that was given to them I see it hard to do anything but they did. This is one of the main reasons I feel they should've ditched despair arc and should've had a 24 episode Future arc with occasional flashbacks. Then we have more time to flesh out every new character in DR3 and deal with the arc the rest of the characters they had. This would've held back Yukizome's characters, but that's a discussion for another time. Anyways, they could've handled Monaca's character arc better, but just had to end it due to being strapped for time, I guess.

I wish we could know more about her, like maybe have a light novel about her, chihiro and matsuda creating the new world program

Miaya is a literal who, the robot was cool I guess, but Monaca's episode was one of the best parts of the anime. A funny abd natural progression from a total brat who's only been emulating her idol, or attempted to at least, to someone who's matured from the hope and despair nonsense mostly cuz she doesn't want to turn into Komaeda. A relatable motivation as far as I'm concerned.

Miaya was a wasted opportunity, we don't know anything about her in the end. The real one was already dead in Future arc and I don't know why she and Bandai weren't in Despair arc (Bandai was supposed to make an appearence but was cut).

neither was Great Gozu

At least he had an important (Even if really small) role in Danganronpa 3 Future, Miaya was already dead and Bandai just died in episode 2 right after Chisa. Gozu is an okay character to me, only thing I dislike is that they didn't show his face despite it being visible in his Concept art.

Her design is pretty. I thought she would be my fav characters when I saw her design, but then she wasn't even a character.

Don't have much to say besides I forgot she existed.

-1 points 6 months ago 
Well...at least she contributed more to the story than Shirogane?

That's not true at all

-1 points 6 months ago 
Are you sure?

Yes. Miaya was just dead while Shirogane was V3

-2 points 6 months ago 
I stand by my statement. D :

Just know that you're wrong by doing so.

I don't feel that I am. And can whoever is spamming me with downvotes stop? It's really childish.

Regardless of what you feel, you can't change the fact that you are factually wrong.

I'm not?

Yes, you are.

continue this thread
Character Discussion #47 - Daisaku Bandai (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

CLICK TO SEE SPOILER
SPOILER

He has the most unfair NG code out of all of them

I mean violence within a closed room with a bunch of people on edge is the most unavoidable thing.

Not to mention Juzo was there.

I dunno, he could have left the room when people were about to start fighting.

Kyoko and the blacksmith guy both had more unfair ones to be honest.

I disagree with the blacksmith guy's code. His was just putting food in his mouth which doesn't seem to bad since there wasn't any food around anyway. (besides the one he and Ruruka had on them)

I can agree about Kyoko's though since that basically gave her like 8 hours before the 4th time limit?

Unless you blind yourself on purpose.

I partially think that was intentional on Tengan's part so they could all see what happens

[S]I'm pretty sure he has equal screentime in DR3 and in the Future Board events in V3's talent development...

tfw Danganronpa V3 gives you better treatment as a character and all you are there is a sprite.

I find it hilarious that this week we got the two most invisible people in DR3 to discuss

[+11]he should have scenes in Despair Arc to balance his sudden death.

07/18/2016

When I was 18... 18 years old, I saw for the first time in my life... I saw an image of clarity. I saw an anime... a killing-game anime scene, though simple as it seemed, changed me... changed my being, changed who I am... Made me who I am... Enlightened me... The anime, Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak Academy - Future Arc, the anime-original story was new... no more than maybe two weeks and a half since inception, since... since coming into existence... and there it was before me in video, I saw it... an anime... What was it called? Danganronpa 3.

The story here is of a boy, a plain boy. He is Ryota, but he is more than that... I will get to this later, but first let us say that he's Ryota, a plain boy. And then there is a farmer... Bandai. This is the nature of the world, here. When I see the world, the politics, the future, the... the satellites in space, and... the people who put them there... You can look at everything as a boy and a farmer... two beings, in harmony and at war...

So, this scene I saw; this boy, Ryota, and the farmer, Bandai, you see... Yes... hmm... It is about everything. This... little anime is, oh, lo and behold... not so little anymore. So yes, when I was 18, I saw this anime... and it hit me all at once, its power. I recorded it, and every day, I looked at it, I said "Okay... let me look at this here. What is this doing to me? Why is this so powerful?"

Ryota Mitarai, he stands here, legs shaking... uncomfortable in his boardroom, and he reads his phone... The news of the world, perhaps... and then he extends his fingers lightly, delicately... he taps his fingers on the boxer, and he asks for something... What is it? It is something he needs, but it is not there. And then he looks up, slightly cockeyed, and he knows... The boxer's knee is in his chest now, and Bandai thinks this... "A strawberry seed only shows its face three times."

This... I always come to this, because I was a young man... I'm older now, and I still don't have the secrets, the answers, so this statement still rings true, Bandai looks up and he thinks... "A strawberry seed only shows its face three times."

And then it happens... You see it, you see... it's almost like divine intervention, suddenly it is there, and it overpowers you... A farmer is injected with poison. It is the bangle's poison, it's the NG code's poison, but the farmer... this farmer, Bandai, is injected with poison... and from afar, and someplace near, but not clear... near but not clear... The girl calls out... Seiko calls out, she is shocked. "Bandai!" she shouts.

Bandai. The farmer's name.

(I'm not doing the whole hour. I actually wanted to say everything that was wrong with him, but he's not worth it. Still better than Miaya. 2/10, would example-kill again.)

When will someone make a Sayaka_thesis.pdf about Bandai?

Nobody here brought it up 'till now but apparently all the cryptic shit he said at the start of the Future arc were all foreshadowing for what was about to happen and the plot in general.

Do you have examples?

"A dancing wolf needs no sake, right?"

"A chanting monk doesn't know his parents, right?"

"A strawberry seed only shows its face three times."

and what's that supposed to mean?

This taken from the TV Tropes DR3 WMG page, so all credit goes there:

"A dancing wolf needs no sake, right?" Might be Juzo and a reference to Andou drugging him in Episode 8. He went under its effects for a little while, but he eventually shakes it off. He doesn't need her "encouragement". Rage is enough. Needs no sake, indeed.

"A strawberry seed only shows its face three times." The strawberry seed could be Andou. Another translation for this quote is to "give up its seed three times". Maybe a reference to how many different people she will try to drug with her candies?

This one isn't mentioned by the OP but I'll put it anyways.

"Both dolphins and deer live inside pine trees" This refers to the fact that the cast have been transported to the underwater building, and this is where the game unfolds. This is discovered in episode 9.

As you can tell by the writing style, the explanations were made when the series was airing, included theories and haven't been updated since. The strawberry one is later proven correct however, as the three people Ruruka drugs are Izayoi, Juzo and later herself (implied).

The other phrases Bandai says are also listed on the TV Tropes page, but don't have explanations, such as the chanting monk one and this one:

"A divorce note from an imp"

The OP on the TV Tropes Pages encourages others to look them also.

But also, it looks like Bandai was onto some stuff early on hmm...

Good question, I don't remember the theories right now.

Well, let's give it our best shot.

Bandai's role in DR3 is a combination of two prior roles that happened in the previous entries of Danganronpa all rolled into one big plot device....which honestly is a better term than a character.

In previous titles, whenever a major player in the game has killed another character, another one who didn't have nearly as much screentime was killed. Leon played this for Sayaka, Teruteru played this for the Imposter. Another trope, was that in every variation of the game one character had to die in order to show off the rules. Mukuro played this in the SLOMK, Kotomi played for this in the first killing game and Yuta played this in the Demon Hunting game.

Due to the nature of Monokuma Hunter and the limited screentime, Bandai is the unlucky schmuck that has to play both of these roles for the plot. So naturally one has to ask how does anyone manage to make anyone care (well for the moment) or remember such a sacrificial lamb. In short? You give the ridiculous traits you can. Make him into a Weirdo (nickname I give for the Yamada/Hanamura/Hoshi of the game) so his design can stick out, then give him a gimmick that you have no intention of giving off a proper reason as to why he does it (in this case his proverbs....which I will get to in a minute), and to top it all off give him a jarringly squeaky voice that does not suit him at all. There you have a recipe for a memorable throwaway character. Which in all honesty....is better than most in his position ever get.

Had Future Arc been given 24 episodes, I still believed that Bandai would still be given the least amount of development among the cast, but....honestly I wouldn't have mind since his design gives off the comic relief type anyways. For what he's shown, I enjoyed what little time he got (have a soft spot for gentle giants...and considering his NG Code he must've been a major pacifist) and if there ever were a "Daily Life" before the killing game I probably would have enjoyed his presence a bit more.

Now, we all know what happens later on: Juzo hits Mitarai, his code goes off and Bandai becomes the first victim of poisoning. Done the deal, right? Now, remember what I mentioned about his proverbs and how we were a better plot device? Well, his proverbs turned out to be a decent foreshadowing of future events: The other building under the water, Juzo fighting off the effects of Ruruka's candies, among others and I have read people using those to properly guess these or similar events ahead of episode time. So in an ironic twist, what he claimed to have "no meaning", really did have meaning for those theorists who tried looking for answers in the prior episodes making his role to be a plot device a success in a way....course he still fails as even a semi rounded character.

Bandai is a waste, he is canon fodder, he is anything but an actual character. Who the hell is he? At least Miaya had some background to her character, but what even is there to Bandai to make me interested in him?! We know nothing about him besides what class he graduated from, he had no cameo in Despair Arc, he has only around 3-4 lines in the Future Arc that has no meaning at all, and is killed right at the beginning. The writers treated him as a demonstration for how the NG does work, but didn't bother to do anything else with him to make anyone care about him. He has a terrible design and an obnoxious voice, there's that I guess.

Thanks Juzo, for wasting Bandai before he even had a chance to shine

Dickhead

On the contrary, his strange voice and contrasting build made me want to find out more about him.

He was also nothing but a joke character. We suppose to laugh that a muscular black man would have a voice of a little loli girl.

Beautiful Cinnamon Roll, too good for this world, too pure.

A surprisingly high-profile voice actor for such a little role. Look up Rie Kugimiya, you've probably heard her at least once before. They could've pulled almost any no-name new actor they wanted to do the "big black man has a little girl's voice" joke, but they shelled out the cash for Rie motherfucking Kugimiya, an industry veteran. That's dedication.

Honestly, he got killed off so early and with so little fanfare it feels like the initial script had called for him to make a return later in the plot. I've talked before (okay, "before" as in almost a year ago at this point) about how it feels like DR3 got rewritten for some reason to make Tengan the bad guy, and this seems to be another thing that got changed. Given that he has the voice of a little girl and the body of a large square black man, it's easy to write him off as a joke, but it's not the first joke character I've tried to form into a coherent whole.

I like the interpretation of his "sayings" having meaning and acting as foreshadowing, and the voice could suggest...

Okay... Never mind trying to use evidence to make an analysis, there's just not enough there. Instead, let's play pretend again and make up a better role for him that at sort of fits what we see of him, even though what we see is very small:

Bandai joined the military straight out of high school. He was injured in an ambush, but miraculously survived despite his throat injury. Half his team died in that ambush, and their infighting and bickering had only made the situation worse. Now nobody took him seriously because his voice had been ruined from the injury, but he swore he would not let another team fall to infighting. After being released on medical leave, he took up farming and quickly made a name for himself as his innovative multi-planting techniques allowed him to grow several types of crop on a single field to great success, proving that even plants benefit from teamwork. The tragedy happened before he got back to the military.

He was brought into the Future Foundation when the world started falling apart, and was appalled at the state of them. A huge number of ultimates, stifled by their inability to tolerate each other's presence when the world needed them most. The bickering went all the way to heads of the organization, and they should be the ones setting an example for those beneath them! He saw those kids who just joined, their resolve hardened by their shared tragedy, and had a really awful idea.

He staged a killing game, so everyone could learn how much they really needed one another. Of course, this one was designed from the bottom up so he could make it convincing without actually killing anyone, so murder wasn't the driving force. He set up the trap, the bracelets, stocked a few fake corpses so he could replace the people who "died" to either the "attacker" or the "poison" their bracelets injected with realistic body doubles, and had a little fun trolling the rest of the heads of FF by vaguely foreshadowing the events to come. He even made sure to script the "deaths" so the ones that were already good coworkers would get eliminated first and put the pressure on those who needed an attitude adjustment, while the kids would be there to inspire the others with their unity.

Of course, he realized shortly after starting that he probably should have removed all the weapons first...

Bandai, like Miaya, can barely even qualify as an extra. We don't know anything about him, we never expand on him in despair arc, and he's used just as a demonstration for what happens if you die to the poison, which…makes even less sense since they already demonstrated it on a video with Monokuma in the last episode. Chisa may have technically been the first death, but she at least got a prominent role in despair arc so we could learn about her. Bandai gets no such treatment. He doesn't even get as much as a good cameo, like maybe he works at the kitchen at Hope's Peak and we can see Teruteru getting fresh ingredients (you know, the thing Teruteru brings up in his FTEs) from the ultimate farmer.

I know it's because Danganronpa likes to have a character with a more cartoonish design in every game (Hifumi, Teruteru, Bandai, Ryoma, etc) but good god I hate Bandai's design. Making a big black character with beady eyes, an afro, and a giant grin like that just looks absolutely terrible. You could make any other character have the same design, because it has the effect of making Bandai look like a giant blackface caricature. Go ahead and say "but this is a game made in Japan, so…" or whatever you'd like. It doesn't change what a terrible design this guy has to me, especially since they can't go beyond just the really stereotypical traits. I'm not trying to suggest it's even intentional, since it fits in the standard character design formula, but that doesn't mean it doesn't raise any red flags for me.

I can't even call him a character. He's just a blackface that happened to die early. I guess you could get some kind of material out of Hagakure's vision where we see him being buddy buddy with Great Gozu, but they never do anything with it.

Rip funny voice guy

I fucking love him. Great character design and voice. Interesting speaking pattern. Really wish we got to see more of him.

I think I read somewhere that Kodaka wanted a scene of Bandai plowing a field, but the animation team didn't have time for it.

Anyways, Bandai is a waste of a character, as everyone has been saying, but I feel like if the Future Arc had the time it needed to develop (have 24 episodes) then he would've had some time to do something with him even if it's for a short while. I mean hell, give the guy a light novel or something. Even if it's terrible, it'll give him some sort of sort of resemblance of a character.

In fact; can we just have light novel with Bandai, Gozu, and the real Miaya? Have them go on a Future Foundation Mission and have a character dynamic of some sort? I'm sure a lot of people in the fandom would read that. Or how about a full light novel about all of the branch leaders? That would give so much more than the whole anime gave us! Someone go tell Spike Chunsoft to make light novels about DR3!

Danganronpa: Future Foundation would have been useful prior to DR3. Hell, if the there were two seasons of DR3 with one going in-depth on the FF cast and just how destroyed the world was prior going into a killing game it would've helped the new cast oh-so much and DR3 probably would've been better received.

The "character" was only there as a demonstration if the bracelets' poison. Also I was unable to take him seriusly

best waifu <3

I hate when they waste a character just to go "SEE? SEE? IT'S REAL! YOU'RE ALL GOING TO DIE!"

It's frustrating. It's especially frustrating in cases like DR3 or the comic Avengers Arena (I could write an essay on everything wrong with THAT mess) where the example kill is actually the SECOND death. It's incredibly stupid when those in the game have no reason not to believe it (like when it's an infamous underground streamed series or something that they all know of) and it's even more stupid just to do it for the viewer because we KNOW already that people will die. Do not even get me started on Hunger Games "Eh, just kill 12 of them in the first three minutes" nonsense, though they at least had a rather large cast to get through. The movie Condemned does an early "DANGER R REAL" death and they only have like 8 people in their game.

It can work out if the early out-of-nowhere death is either of someone of importance to the main character to push them forward in the Killing Game (Battle Royal, the benchmark book for all of these Killing Game things, does this well enough) or it will come back to be important later (Danganronpa itself). Bandai however is neither. We know nothing about him, Seiko seems to be the only one who even cares, Juzo barely bats an eyelid at what he did, and everyone else is more bothered by the death that has already happened. Bandai doesn't end up being the Mastermind, Accomplice or anyone of importance. His death is simply there to repeat what Monokuma had already explained on the video and to make people (by which I mean Juzo) follow their bracelet rule, despite them having no reason not to to begin with as all members of the group know full well the dangers of dealing with the Ultimate Despair group already.

At the end of the day, the bracelets of DR3 were just a frustration. They contributed to three deaths in total but really it seems the only ACTUAL reason they were there was to stop Juzo and Munakata from killing everybody in the first room. (Also it's really annoying that the nicest characters like Bandai and Seiko got the hardest ones. The Mastermind really was an asshole and it only makes their final plan even more annoying than it already is)

He was my favorite of the new characters for about five minutes before he died. RIP.

Let's not bury the squirrels and eat their cabbages yet.

So you're telling me Seiko's medicine couldn't revive Bandai immediately after his NG code was set off but Kyoko was revived after like 2 episodes of being "dead"?

oh okay....

Who?

Ah, Bandai... they wasted a perfectly good character...

Um, what can I say about Bandai? I guess he has a unique design compared to the other Future Foundation members, he stands out. His voice is also very annoying compared to some of the others, his voice isn't badass or cute it's just high pitched and gross. Sadly, all I can say about him, he makes less of an impression then Natsumi did in Despair Arc, at least she had a personality while Bandai is nothing.

Honestly what made Dr3 bearable. but seriously he is just a literal tragic canon fodder with an unfortunate NG. Tengan master plan implies that he might also been to weed out the future foundation members. But He literally did nothing wrong and he was still killed off with an impossible to avoid Code.

best black boi

Bandai? whos bandai?

Best waifu of dr3, that's who

It's often noted in the games that the first person to die is always someone that seems like they'll be important, but then it's a bait & switch. I've always interpreted it the opposite way: the first person to die is intentionally not someone random, because otherwise you just get a Bandai.

Who?

I quite liked him, we didn't get much of him but he seemed nice. Most of the NG Codes were something that went against their personality or skills. Like Izayoi eating, or seiko being walked all over. They felt like they were trying to make the group improve sorta.

So I would imagine that bandai's was the same. Which would imply to me that he is a pacifist. His NG code was to witness a participant hurting another participant so if he were to improve I guess he would need to grow a backbone and learn to stop them. Just before he died he was too scared to stop Juzo so I guess that was what he needed to prove. He also got picked on a lot in the FF even though I'm pretty sure he is the 2nd of 3rd oldest there.

I don't get his personal expressions. I think a while ago someone deciphered them but I can't remember what they were.

All of this is just speculation since we know very little about him but from what we know I would say he is a pacifistic coward. I would imagine he is pretty nice though. Just an eat target

Big fan. Loved the Power Rangers growing up.

Bandai is the secret mastermind of DR4, he fooled all of us

Who?

-1 points 6 months ago 
Black man died first rip

No, Chisa died first

Character Discussion #48 - Kyosuke Munakata (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

CLICK TO SEE SPOILER
SPOILER

Munakata is a character whose role and characterization ties in heavily with the structure of the DR3 anime, that being the divide between the Despair and Future Arcs. For all its faults, DR3 is an interesting show to watch for the way it experiments with the concurrently airing prequel and sequel "chapters" that compose its unique set-up. This structure allowed for characters or events introduced in the Future Arc to be expanded on from the perspective of past events in a manner that was less restrictive/intrusive than flashbacks. While it may have hindered the show's quality in some ways or just wasn't taken advantage of to the fullest extent in others, I'd argue that Munakata's development is one of the cases where the anime did it right (for the most part).

As previously mentioned, Munakata's character is intrinsically entwined with this past/present dynamic. If one were to view the Future Arc alone, the impression given by Munakata might be one of uncompromising extremism, with some glimpses provided as to why but nothing solid. This is because he is very much portrayed that way, having taken up an increasingly antagonistic role as the episodes progressed until his eventual "redemption" near the end of the anime. I hesitate to use the word "redemption", as it carries connotations that I don't think apply perfectly to the situation, but it works as a descriptor of his transition from antagonist to supporting role so I'll leave that as is.

Anyways, Future Arc establishes Munakata as an extremist who has endured the worst of the Tragedy and as such has a very hardline approach to dealing with the Remnants. On the other hand, Despair Arc works to establish who Munakata was before the Tragedy to place emphasis on the way the event affected his personality and beliefs.

The Munakata we see in the prequel side of the anime is a man without the extremist tendencies that we see defining him in the Future Arc. Whereas Future Munakata is a hardline operator who advocates for outright extermination of the opposition, Despair Munakata is far less extreme in his methods and goals. Which makes sense, as of the time of the Despair Arc there is no terrorist death cult running around to provoke such a response. Instead, Munakata is working to combat the corruption hidden within Hope's Peak Academy by infiltrating the school system with the aid of his two trusted allies. Juzo being placed in a key role within the academy's security forces and Chisa having taken a teaching position.

While Munakata is still working against a morally inferior opposition, none of the extremism that characterizes him later in life can be found. The Despair Arc establishes him as a reasonable individual who's ambition is being put towards a fairly positive goal. However, while doing so it also prepares the impetus that would drive his more negative growth in following years.

One of the most important things the Despair Arc does with Munakata is display the degree of trust he has in both Chisa and Juzo. The two are incredibly important in his efforts to uncover the rot within Hope's Peak and their own judgement is shown to be valuable to him as well. The main example of this being the way he let's go of his suspicions of Junko fairly easily once they've both spoken for her innocence. This scene is crucial for him and the plot of the Future Arc, as it establishes both that it was possible for him to uncover Junko's machinations before they came to fruition and that his most trusted allies were the one's who stopped him from doing so.

There's a good chance that Munakata felt some degree of guilt over the Tragedy since it originated in Hope's Peak Academy despite his efforts to stop such activities on campus. This guilt is likely to have been a driving motivation behind his unrelenting efforts to combat despair during the event, which combined with the harsh realities of waging war against a widespread terrorist death cult to drive him further and further into extremism. It certainly became all the more terrible when it was revealed that the girl he had dismissed as harmless was actually the mastermind behind it all.

Speaking of the Junko reveal, that and Chisa's post-mortem admittance to working for despair combined to form a blow that completely shattered one of the few positive constants in his life, that being his trust in his friends. Not only could Munakata have possible stopped the Tragedy before it began, one of the people who dissuaded him from that path was a double agent! This revelation completely devastated the idea that even his closest allies could be trusted and provided the final push towards his paranoia-fueled murderous rampage.

His loss of faith in Juzo can also be linked to this realization, as if one of the two people who stopped him from going after Junko was a supporter of hers, than it seems likely that the other would be as well. Which isn't entirely wrong either, as Juzo was covering for her even if he wasn't loyal to her cause.

While that connection is one of most crucial, basically every new aspect of Munakata's character in the Future Arc can be linked back to the Despair Arc and the period of time in between. His desire to execute the Remnants of Despair stems from his experience fighting them and the general damage they've done. He knows their fanaticism and is appropriately skeptical of any sort of redemption on their part. In addition, he knows the consequences of letting a potential threat go from his experience with Junko, so he's determined not to make the same mistake again.

Naegi claims to have taken care of things, but he was relying on an untested program to do so and hid the Remnants from the Future Foundation in the progress. He comes back to the FF for his trial with no evidence for his success either and things go to shit before any further progress can be made. Munakata was critical of Naegi's reliability even before this, so his word isn't enough to outweigh the man's own suspicions.

Also, now that I think about it I'm not sure if Munakata ever found out that the 77th class was brainwashed. Like, he certainly didn't know Chisa was brainwashed and I'm fairly certain that she was the only one from his group that found out about the videos Junko was making. All of the affected Reserve Course students committed suicide before they could be questioned too, so he couldn't find out from them. He couldn't have known about Ryota's role in it all either, as he had no specific issue with the animator despite his hatred for despair and general paranoia. Unless I'm forgetting something in Future Side that established otherwise, I'm pretty sure Munakata had no idea that the Remnants were brainwashed, which further provides justification for his refusal to believe their supposed turn to good.

Anyways, this development between Despair and Future Side really made me appreciate Munakata as a welcome addition to the Danganronpa cast.

Your comment's great! Munakata's development between the two arcs is something that makes him work as a character and where we played SDR2 and learned to sympathize with the pre-brainwashed RoD, from his side of the story and attitude we see how people in general would see them as they were once (And as you said, I don't think it's likely he knew they were brainwashed or that he'd let this be reason to spare them).

It's too bad that Munakata was effectively set up narrative-wise to be the fall guy, while he doesn't have the nicest attitude and descends into a murderous state of paranoia quickly arguably with how things went for him what with Chisa nudging him into extremism and Juzo keeping secrets from him on top of Tengan ultimately being the mastermind of this killing game arguably that was pretty realistic considering his decision to send Chisa and Juzo to investigate Hope's Peak fucked things up and he's already dealing with a lot of guilt.

Tl;dr: Had potential but he had no chance going up against Makoto 'Hope is always right' Naegi especially with how poorly developed his side is.

A lot of people are forgetting this isn't his first time being in the spotlight 

Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image

https://i.imgur.com/GZf2G7L.png

Source | Why? | Creator | ignoreme | deletthis

I knew what it was before clicking on the link. However i wasn't ready for something so fabulous. I can see how he earned his title of Ultimate Pimp.

I like Munakata. He believes in Hope, but he has a much more realistic expectation of it. He believe there won't be hope without despair and the only way to do that is to remove any trace of it. It allows has him unable to believe in anyone when they could easily just being hiding under facade of lies. His whole arc is pretty tragic and I'm happy he survived. It was interesting seeing things from his point of view. Not much to say, but he's pretty good.

He's got my favorite NG Code out of everyone in DR3 aside from Seiko. "Can't open doors" is such a simple rule, but there's so many layers of symbolism to it that fit in with his character really well.

First, being unable to open doors on a simple mechanical level should make him dependent on others, since he can't go most places by himself. However, he almost immediately goes off on his own, finding his way through the battlefield through creativity and brute force. This stands in stark contrast to his past self in Side: Despair, where he relies excessively on Juzo and Chisa (to his ultimate detriment). This refusal to rely on his friends, despite his talent relating to his ability to lead others (Ultimate Student Council President), is an early warning for his semi-corruption and fall into despair in the middle arc of Side: Future.

Secondly, "Can't open doors" is the only NG Code that can relate in a true no-win scenario for the player--in other words, it's the only code that can result in a player being trapped. If Munakata gets stuck in a room with only closed doors, then the only way he can escape is to trigger his NG Code, killing him--no win. Makoto weaponizes this when he traps Munakata in a room with him with a closed door. This speaks to the inevitable endgame of Munakata's initial worldview--as Makoto says, trying to create hope by destroying despair will never work. In other words, his worldview is going to trap him in a no-win scenario, much like his NG Code literally does to him during the game.

Lastly, the NG Code sets up his eventual redemption. Munakata makes it out of the Killing Game by being less of a loner edgelord and going back to what he's good at--leading others and relying on the people around him. His turning point is that conversation with Makoto in the room with the closed door, and on their way out, for the first time in the Killing Game, he lets someone else open the door for him. This is the first real sign we get that the old Munakata, who we saw in Side: Despair, is starting to come back, and it's that Munakata who can truly help to fight the Ultimate Despair.

Anyway, that's just my two cents. I'm not a huge fan of Munakata's actual writing and character, but the symmetry between his character and his NG Code is one thing the writers really nailed.

I think it's ironic that although he's meant to be the dumb/bad guy because he dared to disagree with Makoto, pretty much everything he did made a whole lot of sense and was right. In particular, if he didn't randomly kill Tengan chances are pretty good everyone else was going to eventually die. In light of the danger Mitarai and Tengan posed to the world, it'd be far more preferable to have Munakata kill everyone and then die to a brainwash video over letting either of them escape. Sure, he didn't know that, but his actions had a far better chance of saving the world compared to hoping DR2 kids paratrooping at the last moment to save the day.

He reminds me of Nooj in FFX2 who was able to come up with a great plan that'd take out Shuyin and thus saving the world from certain doom but was voted down by Yuna who had no idea what she's doing just because Yuna's the main character. Though I think FFX2 is aware that Yuna's the dumb one whereas I'm not sure if DR3 is aware that Makoto's dumb one here.

It definitely isn't, the entire anime is pretty much a vehicle to shove down our throats how awesome blind hope is, and anyone who disagree's is either evil, dumb, or literally brainwashed.

I wouldn't say it's "blind hope", I feel it's more like a "pure hope" which would be just having hope and trusting in others rather than feeding a destructive hope (Munakata's) or a manipulative one (Tengan's).

I hate, hate, hate, hate Munakata. He just exists to be as aggressive as possible and show that Makoto is right. His entire purpose in the narrative is to just make reckless decisions and cement more clearly to the audience that Makoto is right. He has no interesting personality, backstory, or intentions and feels incredibly lazily put together

Long story short, he sucks. I like the small moment near the end when he finally cries for Chisa I guess but I am in no way satisfied with how his character ends. He receives no real punishment for his horrible and wonton actions nor does he meaningfully redeem himself. He does take a stand against Ryota, but it feels flat

I can't really put it into words. His character just felt frustrating. Every plot development that occurred as a result of Munakata felt frustrating. I'm all for inconveniences happening to characters, but they shouldn't feel so goddamn frustrating

He's the face of the Future Foundation without Makoto, everything that Junko knew was going to be the opposition and preemptively exploited. He fought a philosophical war as if it was a traditional battlefield, hence why the Foundation basically didn't get anywhere until after the end of the Hope's Peak Killing Game. It would be baffling why nobody else had made progress in the battle against despair, unless the most prevalent force in the fight was led by someone who was neck-deep in mistakes.

Everyone close to him betrayed him. Chisa specifically pushed him to become the biggest failure he could be, with each hardline tactic making things worse every time. He's a tragic character, as are all three in his group. He may technically survive the killing game, but he's dead inside anyway. Everything he ever worked for turned out to be manipulated garbage, everyone he loved is dead, and the man he thought was so wrong turned out to be 100% right. If that's "no real punishment", I can't imagine what punishment would be worse. He "died" in every meaningful way in that closed room with Makoto.

Can we just agree to make both our comments the top ones so there is both a strong case for and against because we literally have the opposite opinion on everything.

I like it when he rushes to see Juzo before he died. It was pretty sad.

Makoto was more in the wrong for protecting literal terrorists lmao

No because they were brainwashed so Makoto is still 100% right

-1 points 6 months ago 
It doesn't matter. They still did those things and someone has to answer to it so Makoto was still in the wrong. The people would want them dead and so would Future Foundation.

I-I was brainwashed

Doesn't hold up in a court of law.

Brainwashing doesn't work in real life the way it works in Danganronpa, either, so the comparison doesn't really hold water.

I'm not acting like it's a serious response that makes Makoto in the right, I'm acting like it's the show's response

The remnants of despair end up turning back to their former selves at the end because Makoto put his trust in them. They end up saving the world

Makoto was right. That's what the show tells you with Hope Arc

Munakata's alright when comparing him to most of the DR3 cast. He's basically Komaeda with a sword but a lot more angsty (well, a different kind of angsty) in that he 1. Wants the SHSL Despair kids dead like hell and will go to extreme lengths to acheive this and 2. His whole love for hope is a direct result of witnessing/experiencing so much despair. Though arguably even Komaeda was more merciful than Munakata when it comes to point numero uno given there's no way Munakata would pass up the chance to ACTUALLY blow up the building if it meant there was a 100% chance the enemy would be destroyed. Komaeda at least did a complicated gambit so that the innocent could escape.

Honestly, I enjoyed him just because I thought he was kind of badass and for the first few episodes of Mirai-hen he really did show true qualities of leadership. I got pumped when he jumped up on the table in the first one. That was kind of sick.

His rivalry with Naegi overall falls flat though because despite how the series tries to tell you that they're combining their hopes, they...don't. Hell, it kind of tells when some of the concept scenarios for Kibou-hen was the remnants teaching him a lesson...like, that's just morally fucked. They're terrorists who destroyed the damn world. Munakata isn't. He isn't a bad person for not believing in forgiveness as easily as Naegi.

The "my waifu died for me" parallel was also kind of lame, especially since the relationships were so poorly and underdeveloped in DR3. Hell, Chisa didn't even die for Munakata. She fucking got brainwashed against her will. That ain't right. It's also dumb that they conveniently forgot that he killed Sakakura, his best friend, for an entire episode too. Like jfc.

Here's my comment from the 'How would you Improve X?' series a while back on Munakata:

Looking through these DR3 threads, a clear and consistent issue with the development of characters throughout is definitely in the series inability to present a balanced case and end in a moderate manner; we saw this with Ruraka, we've seen this with the perfet ending for the DR1 survivors, and as many have pointed out already, Munakata is definitely a victim of this.

I'm fairly certain I wasn't alone in being overjoyed when Munakata's character was first made clear to the audience; a no-nonsense autocrat who actively ran against the series' overbearing moral of 'kind, good, diplomatic hope' always saving the day in every situation, reflecting a need for genuine action and order to ensure peace. Of course we knew he'd be an antagonist character, but the expectation was that by the end of the anime the perspectives of Naegi and Munakata would both go to an extreme, fail tragically, resulting in them coming together with an answer combining both, and for a decent while it appeared this was the way the message would go. However, around episode 9 or so, it started to become clear that that wasn't the message being told, and that they were disappointingly just going to present Munakata as entirely wrong, and once again Naegi's naive hope would win the day, hooray (shrug). If it's not clear already, the first step to improving Munakata is giving him due credit for the justifiable sections of his philosophy, of which there are a decent amount.

A related, but not identical, issue with his character lies in a total lack of closure for him. Where does he go in the end? Is there anybody left in his circle who actually cares for him? Has he been given any reward? All your relevant questions, and more, are NOT to be answered in this anime! Seriously, no dying farewell to Juzo, no role in the future scene, minimal input in Hope Arc, he may as well have died at some point in the final episodes for all the writers cared. Hell, throughout the series' we hear him talk of his plans of being a headmaster of a new Hopes Peak, so surely when we cut to a restored HP's headmaster office we're going to see - NOPE FUCKING NAEGI'S HEADMASTER BECAUSE HE IS PERFECT AND EVERYTHING HE DOES OR SAYS IS PERFECT AND HE CAN HAVE ALL HIS FRIENDS SURVIVE, EVEN HIS WAIFU WHO DIED BECAUSE WE HAVEN'T GIVEN NAEGI ENOUGH RESPECT, AND ANYONE WHO OPPOSES HIM OR HIS FRIENDS HAVE WRONG BELIEFS AND ARE EVIL AND DESERVE DEATH/NOTHING!!!!!

So, yeah, I have an issue overall with the way Naegi is treated, if you can't tell, and Munakata really is unjustly punished so the writers can polish Naegi's stature even more. I don't know, honestly this is a problem I see quite often in anime for some reason, characters treated like deity's because they're pure and just, and it's a real shame.

Essentially, a really good concept for a character wasted by an overly antagonistic portrayal and apathetic approach.

Literally did nothing wrong. Only thing he did wrong was not kill off Makoto but hey at least he tried desu.

This edgelord Yu Narukami is pretty much an agressive asshole beacuse the plot wants to make Makoto look right (Aka suck his dick and fuck everyone else), but that is a topic for another day.

He is literally the most one-noted asshole in the series, normally, characters like him get a little more of a e special treatment like development (Fuyuhiko) or be hilarious (Byakuya), but Munakata gets nothing of the sort.

There isn't much to talk about him other than he is an asshole who allowed Juzo to act like a dickhead during the game.

Glad im not the only one who that that was Yu

He even uses a sword like him

Upvoting because this is getting echo chamber-y. That's to be expected with these kinds of characters or posts, but we shouldn't be downvoting just because we don't like the other views.

Hmm

Im not sure what to think of Kyosuke. He has a rather extreme vision of what hope is and it contrasts with Makoto in a somewhat interesting way. Its just a shame that it's not a nice contrast between his version of hope and Makoto.

I mean i felt bad for Kyosuke because Junko fucked up the two people he trusts most by brainwashing one and bribing the other. After the fall of Hope''s Peak Academy he get's that extreme version of hope because it effectively ruined his future.

Munakata had some interesting stuff going for him as a character, but god he lacked charisma. In the end he just wasn't that entertaining and it made his scenes painful to watch.

[S]Sorry this is a bit late!

Funnily enough I find the characters revolving around and having their motivations centered about Kyosuke much more interesting and nuanced than Kyosuke himself.

Munakata is a pretty frustrating character. The cause I'd say is less about him and more a trap Danganronpa consistently falls into with its writing where they're not very good at setting up a proper conflict and really do a good job at showing both sides. A lot of characters like Edgelord Narukami here, Ruruka, Angie from v3, and several more like this get shafted when they have to be the antagonistic voice against the perspective the player is supposed to accept, and every time they get a good point or two in before the game proceeds to make them as one-dimensionally in the wrong as possible and break the entire dilemma to the point where it seems incredibly unreasonable to take one side.

You can do a hero vs villain black and white story, but if you try to focus this much on a dilemma and then make what they're disagreeing on so childishly one sided, it just comes off more as preachy, so much like the religion portion of v3, the issue of the dilemma with Makoto's actions against the future foundation make it where you seem incredibly stupid if you sided against Makoto, which is unfortunate because the question of Makoto's fate is good enough to make a premise for DR3.

What do I mean by that? The cast is clearly split, with some thinking Makoto is in the right, while the others point out the danger of harboring terrorists and going against the future foundation orders, and that's an interesting setup and one that helps move the plot in a believable direction. It gets botched when you later find out that the cast was forcibly brainwashed and not just manipulated into joining Junko of their own accord, so a lot of the discussion is now heavily skewed toward Makoto being in the right if the people he saved were all victims too. It also comes off as massively hypocritical of Munakata who had Chisa be brainwashed herself.

In general, Munakata just feels inconsistent. Once we can sit through all the fight scenes that fill the anime up, they go from trying to make him seem antagonistic but reasonable, to wildly stupid in how rampage inducing he is, to then trying to make us feel sorry for him because his girlfriend died,

I don't ever dislike characters just because they're mean, antagonistic, or even villainous, but they still have to be done well, and Munakata just came off as inconsistently selfish, stupid, and more of a hypocritical asshat willing to do anything as a prideful powergrab rather than an interesting character who in any way opposed Makoto.

It also comes off as massively hypocritical of Munakata who had Chisa be brainwashed herself.

What are you talking about??? Munakata had nothing to do with that and he only finds out she was brainwashed after she died lol

I'm not saying say he caused it, I meant that he's hypocritical to have all this concern for a person in the exact same position as the people makoto saved and that's apparently supposed to be our dilemma. I know he doesn't know, but the writers know to pace this shit out to realize oh shit that kind of makes us look dumb by the end.

It makes munakata outlandishly unsympathetic and selfish to only give a damn or change when it's something that affect him.

Munakata wasn't actively trying to protect her unlike Makoto trying to protect the DR2 cast and when he found out the truth about her, which was after her death, he stabbed her corpse in the chest to verify if she was really dead so she wouldn't cause any more harm despite his feelings for her. That takes real balls more so than Makoto would ever be able to muster.

A large disappointment, possibly one of the largest in DR3, and this time due more to decisions made from the beginning rather than an apparent unraveling of the narrative...

From his position and talent, Kyosuke seems like he should be an excellent character. Someone with the charisma to lead the Future foundation and the vision to lead it well, but without the wide-eyed idealism of Naegi. It should have been an interesting dynamic, Kyosuke making orders that sound bad but are necessary either because of supply limits or outside demands, while Naegi comes to terms with the fact that while his "hope" is an ideal that's not always feasible in the real world. Kyosuke might have ended up being like a big brother or a stern parent to the rest of the foundation, trying to resolve things amicably where he could but ultimately putting his foot down when their squabbles got too bad.

In the canon, we got something else. He lets his emotions control him. He starts trying to kill his own allies at the drop of a hat. He tries to kill the "Ultimate Hope" without trial because he had made a single questionable decision, without allowing any sort of explanation to reach his ears. He even kills his best friend because a dying old man told him he couldn't be trusted, ignoring the years of history between them. Not to mention drinking mysterious medicine he found on a corpse, murdering an old man for the crime of telling him to stop murdering people, and whatever questionable decisions he made that I'm forgetting.

It's a rarity in Danganronpa that I find a character with a talent I can't believe... Not that it's odd for their personality, or strange that it's a talent at all, but that they literally don't seem qualified to have that talent... This is one of those rare cases. If he was the Ultimate Swordsman or even something irrelevant like Ultimate Stamp Collector then this kind of behavior might be understandable or at least forgivable, but I can't believe that someone who acts like this would be given any sort of leadership talent. Yeah, losing someone you love sucks, but if it causes you to go on a murder spree then you probably shouldn't be in any sort of position of power.

I don't know what the best choice for characterization would've been for Munakata, but it wasn't the thing they chose.

Edgy person that's in the DR3 anime. I at first liked him but now I think of him as just a badly written antagonist.

PROS:
Him and Chisa as a pairing is really cute
His design is nice and... white
He has a good voice actor

CONS:
Poorly written
Someone who had way too much screentime for their own good
Edgy
Edgy x2
Someone who was clearly meant to be unlikable but never receives development
Isn't even an entertaining character, I cringed whenever he was on screen

OVERALL: Get rekt edgy lord

Isn't even an entertaining character, I cringed whenever he was on screen

This is the nail on the head. I could forgive how shit Munakata was if he was entertaining. But every moment of screentime he got was painful

Isn't even an entertaining character, I cringed whenever he was on screen

Are you for real? Didn't you see how great meme material he became once he went full crazy?

One of three tied for my favorite character spot.

Munakata represents the line between hope and despair. Fighting for hope with despair and by the end learning to balance the two. This is a dude that was gone through shit. His girlfriend died only for him to learn that she was secretly a psycho killer. He went insane and killed his best friend WHO WINS BRO OF THE YEAR FOR STILL SACRIFICING HIMSELF! so, it made since for him to just wonder. With the spirits of those he loved with him.

if we're talking which DR3 character gets bro of the year, it's definitely not Juzo, but Koichi. Dude looks out for his friend, has the worn hat carry over in despair arc, is active in the life of his friend's children, and then sacrifices himself to save said friend's daughter.

Juzo loses points for that whole "aiding ultimate despair and lying to cover for a chick who ended the whole world" thing, completely betraying Munakata, in addition to just blindly fighting and killing everyone because he loves a guy.

Yes Koichi is a bro but every time someone says that Juzo is less of a person for aiding despair.... HE HAD NO WAY OF KNOWING TH FULL EXTENT OF HER PLANS! They had no idea what Junko wanted to do. He was blackmailed and then he felt guilty for the rest of his life. Also Koichi was never betrayed by Jin only to stay loyal.

He's still a piece of shit that consistently makes the wrong choices for a man we see little to no chemistry with since all they have onscreen is mostly Munakata being a dick to him or ignoring his concerns.

They were literally searching after Junko because they were concerned about what she was doing, not to mention the fact that she's there fighting and stirring up a mob to stop their head of security in itself should raise huge red flags. It's a pathologically unhealthy relationship between the two.

IT IS NOT MEANT TO BE HIM MAKING THE RIGHT CHOICE! he made a mistake and he regrets it!

He also watches the entire Tragedy and somehow none of that is enough for him to admit fault.

Dude wasn't exactly a paragon of loyalty.

-1 points 6 months ago 
Would you admit to helping end the world? That is part of Juzo's guilt

Honestly? Yes.

Despite "loving" Munakata, he made him suffer horribly for years during the Tragedy, and stood by watching silently the entire time.

Either he never really loved him, or he was horribly weak. I mean, once Junko was televised as part of the Killing Game, it's not even like she was going to come back and reveal his secret.

Also, that was the most selfish choice I've ever seen. Even assuming he didn't think she could cause anything as vast as the Tragedy, he still knew Junko was responsible for the Hope's Peak Incident which was pretty fucking horrific. And yet, he was willing to play dumb about it just to keep Munakata from learning about his illicit love. That's some pretty shitty love right there.

-2 points 6 months ago 
I don't want to fight anymore. I am really tired of any and all arguments you will throw at me. Goodbye

...okay. Not sure why you posted at all if actually discussing your opinions is too hard for you, then. Perhaps Reddit isn't for you.

continue this thread

First of all, you don't need all caps. Second, I'm not saying nobody can't like the character. Third, I'm just suggesting that Juzo's delivery was pretty sloppy, as was Munakata's, and so was pretty much every character in DR 3.

He made a mistake and regrets it, and we have an entire character arc about him consistently latching onto an unhealthy relationship and dying for a character who they consistently showed to ignore his concerns, be a dick to him, or generally just use his loved ones for powergrabs for himself. He doesn't change or develop or do anything meaningful or noteworthy.

I get that he regrets it, but that doesn't automatically make for a good tragic character given that he's a one dimensional asshole to pretty much everyone in the anime or outright tries to kill them even when they haven't done anything.

He didn't learn anything or do anything new if he chose to stick to the same character they already established he was attached to.

But Juzo does change. He changes from that asshole to a man you literally chopped off his won hand and saved everyone. Munakata also changes he literally thinks that all despair should be killed but learns that his twisted hope is wrong and how to forgive people and how to move o in despite of despair

No, he already had that relationship with Munakata since it's clear and explicitly said by him that he does anything for Munakata. He's not dynamic and doesn't change if he does the exact same thing he does and says at the start.

It'd be one thing if say he defended Makoto from an attack or protected Asahina or something, or maybe said "you've changed, but i still respect you" about Munakata or something, but he doesn't. Doesn't take much of a moral wall to not let someone off themselves.

Apparently stopping Naegi from killing himself does not count and the characters need to say when they changed. I'm done. I don't want to fight anymore. Good bye

Makoto fanboys tend to think Munakata and Juzo were wrong about everything.

continue this thread

FINALLY, someone who doesn't blindly defend Juzo.

I still want to know how can anyone consider this guy as a top favorite, especially when putting him top 3, your point is not convincing me...

You can't really talk when your flair is literally one of the worst characters in existence

Atleast Ryota is not nearly as bad as the likes of Ruruka and Tengan, and he is at the very least relatable and tried to help. My only beef with him was in hope side, among with every other thing about it.

-1 points 6 months ago 
Ryota was literally trash from start to finish. The anime would massively improve if you delete him from existence.

Bother to explain why though? Also....

The anime would massively improve if you delete Tengan from existance

FTFY

makes stupid anime

stupid anime gets used to ruin everything

too much of a bitch to do anything

does nothing but cry bitch and whine

tries to fuck more things up again with more anime

gets like no consequence for this

Mitarai was a mistake. This is what happens when nerds aren't contained.

makes stupid anime

Wtf did you expect from someone who is the Ultimate Animator?

stupid anime gets used to ruin everything

And he was supposed to know from the get-go that Junko was monster? Instead of, i don't know, a normal school girl from meeting her the first time?

Too much of a bitch to do anything

Juzo was about to punch Asahina for calling him out, but then Ryota intervened to take the punch for Hina, which saved her when it was revealed that her handicap was to get punched or kicked. And then later, tried to stop Juzo again from beating up Kyoko.

Does nothing but cry bitch and whine

Gee, i guess you are a big baby for being upset over your weakness, even if you were bullied as a child, there is absolutely no reason for your self-esteem be this low.......

tries to fuck more things up with anime

You mean trying to brainwash an already brainwashed world with good intentions? I only semi-agree with this point, beacuse some of the steps he took crossed some lines.

gets no consequence for this

Only point i agree with.

Wtf did you expect from someone who is the Ultimate Animator

Actual good content.

And he was supposed to know from the get-go that Junko was monster? Instead of, i don't know, a normal school girl from meeting her the first time?

Doesn't matter. Nerd could have called the popo once he found out his anime was being used by Junko for fucked up shit.

Juzo was about to punch Asahina for calling him out, but then Ryota intervened to take the punch for Hina, which saved her when it was revealed that her handicap was to get punched or kicked. And then later, tried to stop Juzo again from beating up Kyoko.

So like 2 small things in the plethora of times he's a whiny bitch?

Gee, i guess you are a big baby for being upset over your weakness, even if you were bullied as a child, there is absolutely no reason for your self-esteem be this low.......

wahhh everyone feel sorry for me I have insecurity issues

You mean trying to brainwash an already brainwashed world with good intentions? I only semi-agree with this point, beacuse some of the steps he took crossed some lines.

if it's used for a good reason in my opinion then it's ok!!

He's literally no different from Junko.

Shitstain baby should have been aborted when the script on him was checked. DR3 died for this.

Because he isn't pure good or pure evil! He is a man with a tragic story that lead him to chose to do the right thing!

Juzo? Winning best bro of the year? I rather send him into next year to fight against Kaito Momota for the best bro. I never understood the love for Juzo, he's just as bad as Munakata when it comes to being an EDGY CHARACTER THAT LIKES TO HURT PEOPLE!

Kaito is a 2017 bro. Juzo is 2016. they are fighting different battles.

Kaito is bro for every year

"You know why" is my favourite DR3 meme, but that's basically the only nice thing I can say about Discount Togami.

Munakata is simply a laughably bad leader for someone who is meant to be the Ultimate Student Council President. He had clearly already made his decision on Naegi before they had even started their sham of the trial. Way too much shooting first and asking questions later. Just letting his rabid guard dog run loose on everybody. Were it not for his inability to open doors, he probably would have just slaughtered everybody in Round 1. He should have taken order of the situation but he just allowed his group to be completely destroyed from within. It's almost as if he was letting it happen so that those who were planning to mutiny against him would be picked off. I certainly got this impression when the only other non Chisa death that Juzo reacted to was Seiko's, as if he expected Munakata to be upset by it seeing as she was the only other member of the group outside of the main trio that swore loyalty to him. Of course Munakata was in full on edge mode at this point so he didn't care. You know why.

He was ok in the final episode at least. He should have been like that for the entire series. He would have been more boring for sure, but at least he would be more likeable.

I like him, he was one of the best characters in DR3 and while his ideology was ultimately wrong, that's to be expected given he was being manipulated by the Ultimate Despair from the start.

He was also great meme material during DR3's run, I couldn't help but laugh with the content people produced as soon as he got more edgy as he kept falling more and more into despair.

I liked Munakata in Persona 4. I'm glad they brought him as a guest character for DR3.

But in all seriousness I like how he was an "extreme hope" guy but tbh his character kinda felt flat. I do wonder how he would act if he was a character from any of the games.

Character Discussion #49 - Mikan Tsumiki (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

CLICK TO SEE SPOILER
SPOILER

Mikan's portrayal in DR 3 is disgusting, especially since she's one of my favorite characters.

I have my original thoughts on her below, but Mikan suffers from an issue a lot of DR characters have--they try to have their cake and eat it too with several of them.

Mikan has several really honest and heartfelt moments in her FTEs, and they give an explanation of things that happen to her (I think they do it in a painful way when she asks you an oddly specific question about how to torture someone and then her "over and over..." line suggests that it happened to her.)

The issue I have is that the rest of the narrative is generally so disjointed in the main story with how it's shown in the character's FTEs that it has the effect of making the character's extra focus feel more like an excuse rather than an exploration of the character's personality.

Mikan is one such example, but others, usually joke and/or fanservice characters like Akane, Kotoko, The ultimate Impostor and his overeating joke, and many others feel like this where they have something that's shown to be serious, but the rest of the story plays it off too fun or lightly for it to match up. It has the effect of making it sound like they're just trying to make excuses for why they're using Mikan as fanservice rather than making it a focus or explanation about her, and it's a shame because I feel Mikan has a lot of great moments in how they handle a person like this. When she trips and we get fanservice, it's not like the tone is serious or sad or we focus on how Mikan feels, it's just more of a "haha, funny and look, panties!" moment.

DR 3 makes this even worse and shows Mikan being beaten or using her as fanservice without any kind of focus on her, and because the DR 2 cast in general doesn't have any real focus beyond a few characters, it has the effect of losing the edge DR 2 had of giving real world justifications to anime cliches. Having to watch Mikan being beaten or abused by people isn't really that great to watch. We don't get any exploration of her or her abuser(s), it's obviously not funny, and it's just really disturbing.

The only thing I can say I liked about DR3's ending is "At least Mikan made it out alive and got a happier ending." The ending is still contrived, poorly handled, and overall just pretty bad imo, but...Mikan made it, so I can't say I 100% hate it even if it's clearly a copout ending.

Mikan if you don't know is my favorite of the Danganronpa women, so let's jump right in, shall we? Part of why Mikan hits so close to home for me is because I was bullied myself for several years, and I'm more of a fan of how she's presented than Chihiro.

Mikan kind of hit the motherload and also gets the short end of the stick at the same time. Her base character comes mostly from Chihiro, Asahina, and Kyoko in DR 1. What a steal, right? She got some fan favorites for sure…until you play the game and see she's getting kicked around by everyone, even the game itself.

With Kyoko, we get to see that she came off as super confident, only to show the game blow more and more away of that and see she does have her share of issues and insecurities at the end. The game does the opposite with Mikan, and it's part of why I don't care for Chihiro.

To me, Chihiro feels like one of those fictional bullying stories written by someone who never has been bullied. You know what I mean. The ones with the one dimensional bully where they say "Just stand up to them" and everything in the story conveniently works out and the person being bullied has absolutely zero flaws and is able to process everything absolutely perfectly. Chihiro does internalize some negative messages regarding men and women, but for the most part, I still felt he was a pretty much "no flaws" kind of guy relative to the rest of the cast.

Then comes Mikan. I can understand why people might be put off by it, but for what they're trying to present, I love a great deal of her character and how they present things. Mikan is timid, her FTEs can be incredibly awkward at times. Hajime inadvertently hurts her feelings at times and it's quite clear she's got a really unhealthy view on processing things but is still trying to cope the best way she can. Mikan explicitly tells us she doesn't enjoy being bullied, but does so figuring that abuse is better than being ignored and not getting to "exist." It's not healthy, and it's not always pleasant, but Mikan is closer to the type of character I like to see when it comes to this kind of thing. Her FTEs definitely show that she's been physically, emotionally, and most likely sexually abused.

I'm not a huge fan of the fanservice, but I do think it's worth noting that the first bit of it isn't just specific to Mikan fanservice, two instances of it afterward in chapter 1 are her doing it intentionally going back to the same point about being ignored, and the second one in the third chapter is being done intentionally to establish an alibi. I could kind of stomach it, but the execution was definitely needlessly sexualized and that one was the main one where I felt the most put off. Keep in mind I was someone who picked Mikan for in-game FTEs my first time playing, so that helped me stomach the fanservice.

I mentioned she was like Kyoko though. One very consistent thing about Mikan that a lot seem to overlook is that her character is very much like Kyoko. The most obvious being the fact that she's a coroner, but she does carry the group as a core member even apart from that. Excluding the chapter where she's the killer, nearly every one of her assertions are right, and even the ones that aren't are incredibly reasonable, like her suggesting there might be an accomplice that moved Mahiru's body in place of the killer, meaning the killer might not have blood on them.

Mikan is timid and insecure in most of her life, but the game makes a notes in her FTEs, when Akane is injured, and when treating the DD patients that she becomes a lot more assertive and confident when it comes to tending to the sick and herself in general, at the top of it declaring that she will not let Nagito die. Kyoko had the luxury of being the ultimate detective in a murder mystery, so she's always in her element. She's not insecure to the degree of Mikan (that's more Chihiro) but her FTEs do revolve around her building trust and learning to get closer to Makoto by the end of it the same way Mikan gradually trusts in Hajime.

But the game doesn't seem to enjoy stopping there. She helps with the investigations and doesn't seem to get much attention for it. She's helpful in the trials. She saves the group from being executed twice thanks to her work. Hell, even her murder plan is arguably the most well thought out plan in the entire series. Keep in mind I'm referring to her original plan because even the game screws her over and forces her into an unplanned double murder. Her original plan is the best because it kills off one person, leaves next to no evidence at all (you'd have the rope, the camera pieces, the corpse, the heater, and her autopsy report), a cause of death that leaves behind no blood (which used as evidence, screws over every killer), and doesn't go for anything fancy or crazy.

She throws off the time of death and makes sure she has an alibi. It's probably the simplest plan in the series and would have the highest chance of success. The whole twist of someone walking in on you can happen with any killing and it's the only thing ruining her plan. Her plan isn't genius in the sense of something like Nagito's unsolvable murder, but hers just feels the most like an actual plan you'd try to get away with. Nagito's plan was very good, don't get me wrong, but good luck actually trying to pull that off and have all the billion things that could go wrong work out.

That brings me to the last point. Remember our DR 1 chapter 3 killer and how she throws out a little lie about a European castle where she can surround herself with her servants? This reminds me a great deal of the image shown in chapter 6 when Junko is explaining her plan to junkofy mankind. Mikan was obviously there to foreshadow the game and be a bit of a Nagito (I still don't care for a lot of how trial 3 was handled) but Mikan would have a similar image and her own agency in this if she regained her memories and wanted to finish up the plan. Had she won the trial, she'd be free to leave and can surround herself with Junkos, who she believed loved her (obviously it was abusive), and she'd be like Celeste there surrounded by people not bullying her and living in a world where she can be loved an accepted, surrounded by caring people.

Mikan is the character I like seeing when it comes to bullying stuff, because her breaking down so easily and her timid side paired with her strength and confidence coming out when she needs to and showing she has it is much more engaging and accurate for me when I see bullying stories. I also don't like the attitude that she can be criticized for her insecurity given her background if Chihiro can be praised for working to stop it, and that he would as a result be deserving of more warm reception. Good going, Mikan. She's definitely my favorite of the Danganronpa women even if parts of the story didn't do her justice or handle her well.

Despair arc was too comedic for it's own good. I get that Danganronpa by nature is a silly series but the games can go serious when they really want to. Mikan being abused by Junko and her despair-induced stockholm syndrome could have been good stuff but it was basically just used for laughs.

I kind of wish they doubled-down on the comedy. Drop any pretense of telling a serious story, and just have it be a humorous counterbalance to Future Arc.

Future Arc: "Oh no! Bandai killed Togami!"

Despair Arc: "Naegi and Komeada start hanging out, and their classmates have to try and get them apart before the school is destroyed by their luck. Meanwhile, Hagakure is convinced that Ibuki channels an evil spirit when she sings."

Then for the last episode maybe they reveal that all the hijinks were actually them being ultimate despair, and they're so out of it that it seems like goofy fun...

Yeah. For me, it's the difference between playing off of say, Ryoma being a stubborn mule around people and building comedy off of that versus making jokes about him being suicidal. Even if you want to go the black comedy route, it's not particularly done well or done with much humor, so it just feels really awkward and disturbing, but any attempts to take it seriously are negated by the fact that they still want to use Mikan for fanservice.

The only thing I can say I liked about DR3's ending is "At least Mikan made it out alive and got a happier ending." The ending is still contrived, poorly handled, and overall just pretty bad imo, but...Mikan made it, so I can't say I 100% hate it even if it's clearly a copout ending.

Same. Not that I have a problem with my favorite characters dying, but to have the last memory of a character be her never actually succeeding and just becoming a weird yandere that gets thrown in the trash...yeah I'll take the copout

Not only that, but they made her murder plot literally the most practical and most likely to succeed of any murder in the series before the stupid "someone walked in on it" thing happened.

Are you sure? Just the way she tried to set an alibi for herself was suspicious.

Her original plan is simple and effective. she creates an excuse for Ibuki to be out of the hospital, it makes it look like the murder just happened (since Hajime sees the video) which is a simple enough alibi since it confirms Mikan's movements, and more importantly, hajime can only see it in dim light for a few seconds before rushing over.

Her murder method leaves no bloodstains or anything, and the blood is what they're able to use to lead back to her.

not only that, but there'd be no copycat killing, no locked room, and no need for anything else like that. Mikan's plan throws off the time of death and leaves next to no evidence of her crime, so it's really the most practical and straightforward of all the killings.

On top of that, even if you try to call her out, it's her word as the ultimate nurse against yours, and trying to find something suspect about the video puts more suspicion on hajime than her.

If anything, it was already a stretch that 1) Hajime just remembered all the contents of the broadcast no problem and that 2) nobody ever sees anything the slightest bit suspect about Hajime's movements. Nagito brings it up early on to cover him, but it was ridiculous that nobody even thought to maybe question Hajime about it.

You're exaggerating, there are a lot of hints that would point towards Mikan even without Hiyoko also dying there, among those I'd point out:

1) The fact that Ibuki didn't die from hanging herself and that's Mikan lied in her autopsy report.

2) The existence of the conference room in the hospital, a place that could replicate the Typhoon's atmosphere.

Peko's murder was more straightfoward than Mikan's.

1) and again, they have no supporting proof of the time of death beyond the bloodstains which wouldn't exist under her original plan. It's Mikan (the ultimate nurse's) word against everyone else's. The only reason they were even able to question when the murder took place was because of Hiyoko's death.

2) The conference room existing doesn't prove that it was Mikan specifically who did it, or even that the video was faked, and even if you tried to push against it, Mikan can reasonably say Hajime is just lying. He was at the hospital himself and was around the patients (and could be under the effect of the despair disease) so anything is more applicable to him, especially since he was alone with Ibuki's body when he claimed to go over there himself.

It's one thing when you already know Mikan is the culprit. It's another if there's nothing that would definitely go against her and the fact that she leaves next to no evidence.

1) Nagito's investigation led him to determine that Ibuki was killed in a completely different way from the one portrayed in the video and that alone would prove the falsehood of the evidence that apparently showed that Ibuki died by hanging herself.

2)The info Nagito could still bring would not only contradict the video but also contradict Mikan's autopsy which would make her suspicious. That coupled with the conference room being a feasible way to fake the appearance of the music venue plus Mikan being the only one in the hospital in an active situation plus the fact that SHE was the one who went out of her way to set up a fake alibi for herself would eventually lead to her being caught nonetheless.

1) Which doesn't mean anything if they have no reason to doubt the time of death. Without the bloodstains from hiyoko or the locked room, they have no reason to believe someone faked the video. Also put it in perspective that the group as a whole is more likely to trust Mikan over the guy who tried to kill someone and is generally a psycho in their eyes. Not only that, the only reason they listened to that point about the rope was because they already had reason to suspect Mikan in the first place.

2) Mikan wasn't the only one regularly at the hospital, and anything you're trying to push onto Mikan applies moreso to Hajime than anyone. Again, they have absolutely no reason to doubt the video without the bloodstains, and even if they do, she can just as easily argue that Hajime is lying about what he saw. Remember that without the copycat killing, they have no way to disprove the possibility of him having done the murder since they use the ticket to say that Hajime couldn't have performed a copycat killing of a video he never saw. (although honestly, even the in-game explanation is kinda meh since he could have forced the information from Ibuki or hiyoko before killing them, or he could have been/had an accomplice)

1) What are you even talking about? The video showing the WRONG cause of death would be enough to break down the entire video's purpose as the evidence of Ibuki's actual death, it's not like they could only prove that by exploiting the time of death inconsistency that became obvious through Hiyoko's intervention. Also Chiaki would trust Komaeda if his point made sense and Hajime would follow her in her reasoning which would certainly help to convince everyone who wanted to believe Mikan (that situation did happen in the trial and Hajime did convince them all eventually)

2) Mikan was the only one in the hospital besides the sick people while Hajime was there to witness the video, once it became obvious that she lied about the autopsy and that the video was a misdirection, it would also become obvious that the conference room was used in this misdirection and the only person who was in condition of setting everything up.

If in the end, it became a battle of proving who is more suspicious between Hajime and Mikan, Hajime would eventually prove himself innocent not only due to the trust he accumulated from everyone by being reliable in class trials but also due to several suspicious instances of Mikan's behavior (so if she tried to claim Hajime was lying about what he saw it would only become even more obvious that she was trying to misdirect them further), Nagito's evidence showing the true nature of the video (and that Mikan lied about the autopsy) and Chiaki backing them up.

I don't agree with the general consensus about how bad DR3 treated the DR2 cast. I mean, as a first impression is horrible, but the anime takes into account we already know well this characters and care for them. And I didn't see nobody acting out of character. It wasn't great, but it was correct.

Anyway, your original thoughts about Mikan are completely on point, thank you for thinking about things no one seems to have noticed. She deserved more, yes, but I think Kodaka wrote this kind of character taking into account it would not appeal to many people, but hid a lot of material for the few people who really cared about her, like you and me. And I think that's fine. I just wish more people loved her, but I understand if not because the game doesn't idealize her unlike other characters (Chihiro is a good example, Nanami in DR2 is also). That makes her even more special in it's own way, and also fits in the narrative of people don't caring about her after all she suffers.

Mikan Tsumiki is the fictional character I love the most and I could talk about her for hours.

I agree, at first sight a lot of people just assume she's an fan service character, so a lot of people don't do her FTEs

While I don't quite share people's thoughts about how the SDR2 cast should've been manipulated instead of brainwashed (Makoto's testimony about the actions the RoD committed really only makes sense if they were brainwashed so as shitty of a plot device it is, DR3 had no choice), Mikan definitely suffers the worst treatment

No "the only one who cared about me is my beloved" or anything like that. She's just a despair slut. That's it

For someone who had Mikan as their second favorite character this was really just lazy

For me, the brainwashing versus manipulation thing is still bullshit and it was already a stretch in DR 2, but saying it was just brainwashing took an already lofty twist and made it even more of a stretch for me.

Plus, there is that brainwashing line everyone refers to from Makoto, but even that gets contradicted later in the same trial. Makoto's testimony that you're referring to gets contradicted. Source
Kazuichi: Why did we become ultimate despair in the first place?

Makoto: I asked the same thing in the real world but...nobody would give me an answer...

Junko: Junko: It seems my teachings were quite thorough. However, if you ask me...

Junko then goes on to explain that she knows plenty of ways to break people and that talented people

If we're suggesting that Makoto knew they were brainwashed and that he was referring specifically to the sci-fi definition and not just brainwashed as in "listening to someone bad" like joining a cult usage of the word, then it doesn't make sense that he has no idea what happened to them when asked about it, especially since DR 3 made it clear there were several people in the FF who knew the situation and had plenty of people who would reasonably tell Makoto.

I agree the DR 2 twist stretched it too far with the whole ending the world and terrorism thing, but that doesn't mean that the brainwash reveal in DR 3 was any good. One weak twist gave rise to another.

I'm not referring to Makoto saying "You're brainwashed!"--even when playing I didn't think he was saying it literally. But if you're going to convince me some high school girl forced kids to kill their families, slaughter innocent people, starve themselves, fuck corpses, and convince 2,500 people to commit mass suicide....yeah, I really don't see a way DR3 could explain it without brainwashing

Maybe they could've/should've had Junko break them down before brainwashing or something, but there's no way I would've been able to reconcile DR3's story with what we heard about the RoD in SDR2 without brainwashing

I don't buy it at all either, and it goes back to me saying that Danganronpa really doesn't need to be post-apocalyptic. If they all aided in say a school bombing and Junko capitalized on them to all lash out at their classmates instead of ending the world, you can get away with them being criminals and killers who murdered their friends and all and it'd be much less of a stretch to say Junko manipulated everyone.

I'm not saying the Dr 2 twist wasn't a stretch at all, only that I don't excuse DR 3 just because it was in an awkward position.

At the very least, the idea that they centered it all around Chiaki is what makes it extra insulting, and the fact that it's just crammed in not even a full episode makes it worse.

You are talking about a universe where one high schooler caused the end of the world though

Yet another problem I have with DR2's ending, so doesn't really help the point

I mean... if you cant suspend your disbelief for some of the more wacky stuff in the series, maybe you are playing the wrong game? Dont mean to be rude, but Danganronpa has always been a crazy series, end of the world scenarios, Monokuma breaking the 4th wall, students who are so good at stuff that they literally control the fate of the world?

I know you don't mean to be rude, but that's basically gatekeeping

I like DR for introducing a large cast at the beginning of the game and then having them be your suspects for the 5 murder mysteries that follow. In short, I like the series for the characters and mysteries

It's not even a lack of suspending my disbelief for the overall plot, it's completely nonsensical in general

Ok, sorry, I accidentally projected my view of how games should be and what their focus should be onto you.

However, it is my belief, that fiction is not inherently nonsensical BECAUSE its fiction, In the universe of Danganronpa, having an ultimate talent is super powerful, you are basically the most OP thing to exist in that particular field, so its not unreasonable to think that they could cause alot of chaos if they set their mind to it (Junko).

Out of curiosity, would you also qualify any story involving magic as nonsensical because magic doesnt make sense?

No, I wouldn't. Magic has rules and boundaries generally. PLvAA is a good example of this (besides the ending) and FMAB is one of my favorite TV shows

While I didn't really like the ending to DR, I didn't mind the end of the world plot twist. It was left vague what happened. Hell, the game never even implies that Junko caused it and instead seems to suggest that she's just part of the organization that did so

Then DR2 comes along, pushes above the boundaries that were established in the first game, and says Junko is the sole cause. All because they wanted to reuse Junko as a villain (which was already a bad idea in premise)

deserved better

/thread

DR3 did a huge injustice to Mikan's character, which is a shame since she is one of my favorite characters in the series.

The biggest problem I have, and /u/TsundereKermit
 highlighted it well, was how her character was used only for bloated fan service. It isn't even treated with much focus and is just put there to get something out of the viewers. I feel that the writers didn't have much care at all with how Mikan would be written here, ignoring the depth of her character.

She's the cutest. Just wish she could've been treated better. She's basically just used for fanservice(which I never really liked, but after learning why she did it, became kinda disgusting) in the first chapter, then when she starts to become more relevant in chapter 3 she just gets thrown away for some kinda lazy foreshadowing in what is easily the worst chapter in the series(well, i might like v3-6 less, but I'd rather not get into that here).

And, of course, DR 3 did a terrible job with her. I'm not even 100% why I didn't like her despair arc incarnation. I think it's because she basically never smiles or has fun. It focuses entirely on her meek, apologetic side without showing how much she really would enjoy hanging out with the other students. In the game, she would've been ecstatic to be in Chiaki's video game tournament thing, but in the show she just cries and apologizes the whole time.

I do like her in Hope Arc, though. I actually like Hope Arc overall, though I can admit its a bit of a corny asspull. I'm just glad Mikan got a happy ending. She may never be accepted in society as a whole, but she gets to spend time with people that care about her and who can hopefully help her get better and more mentally stable. Hopefully one or two of them can act as therapists for her. And who knows, since Hajime doesn't have Chiaki to go after, maybe he'll end up with Mikan instead. She deserves him.

Yeah I agree with this, hope arc was good as the they got a happy ending which mad me really feel good but was upset that despair arc was on the meh side of things. Esp with Mikan. Her chapter was good tho I might say and did a pretty good murder(s) but was extremely upset that her execution was just...so lame. Sigh* whatever thought over all I really do like her and her back story and her development in the game, like the ending of Hope arc and despair arc mikan I dont tend to like that much at least compared to normal mikan.

Loved her in DR2, but I wish she was taken more seriously as a character and the fanservice was toned down a notch. DR3 made this far worse, with the whole "despair slut" thing and even the "just the tip" scene. When I mentioned I liked Mikan to someone IRL, his reaction was basically "oh so you're into fanservice huh", seeing her more as fanservice than a character. Which annoys me, because I feel she deserves better.

Personally, I think it would've be pretty cool if Mikan got roped into cooperating with the Izuru Kamukura project in DR3 due to her talent, getting involved with the "dark side" of the school and having a genuine moral dilemma based on it (maybe feeling guilt over finally feeling "needed"). I feel it would give her a more compelling reason to meet Junko and fall into despair.

To me it was obvious from the start that she was abused in childhood. You don't even need to do her FTE. I mean domestic abuse and school bullying is the most logical explanation of her behaviour. I think people don't understand purpose of her fanservice moments in DR2 (only 2 if I remember correctly). It is purely comical at first glance but it is tragic in hindsight.

I write this because I disagree that she was misused in DR2. She was the most helpfull character in trials after Chiaki, Sonia and Fuyuhiko. I would even say that she has moment of awesome at first trial. I was compassionate toward her from day one, while many other characters had to grow on me. She isn't my fav but she has interesting personality and is highly sympathetic.

However I agree with majority that she got bad treatment from Chapter 3 Trial and onward in DR3 which is sad :(

I half agree and I get what the game is doing with the fanservice with her. My issue with it isn't the content, it's the game's tone with it. When Mikan falls, they play the silly music and it's clearly played as a more comedic moment and they make a huge focus on her underwear and the fanservice element. Her FTEs play it much more seriously and uncomfortably, but I do feel in general DR 2 had an issue with just making the character traits secondary, so at times it feels like they just made the FTEs feel like an excuse.

If maybe Mikan falls, they don't draw attention to her underwear and just have everyone freak out more and the focus is more on her reaction, then I could buy it being more character driven. They're very clearly trying to get away with showing blatant fanservice without trying to be trashy about it, and it feels a bit disjointed.

Imagine how different Ryoma's character would feel if they constantly made jokes about him being suicidal while also trying to take it seriously too. It'd feel really confused, so while Mikan is one of my favorites, she's held back by the game trying to conflicting things with her.

I love her more than anything in the world. Mikan Tsumiki is the best and deserves more love and all the hugs. I hate Junko for doing what she did to her but at least no one can blame her for what she did after being brainwashed.

I also think Mikan "despair personality" is real, as Dangan Island showed when Hinata proposes to her, but she tries her best to not fall, although she would need the love and support from the 77 class to completely recover from her past traumas. Which is very likely to occur after Hope Arc (bless that chapter).

Some day i would like to write a lot about Mikan and why she is a great character, whose "fanservice" is used by Kodaka as a bait to make you think about the dark real reasons behind that kind of personality, and much more. But I'm pretty busy this last months and English is not my first language so it would require a lot of my time and concentration. See you another time and... From the bottom of my heart, I hope you all get along with this pure cinnamon roll! <3

She gives and takes best girl.

"Just the tip~"

Since her character in DR2 and DR3 has already been talked about quite a bit I am going to mention something else:

Her TDP events are pretty shitty. Half of them are about Mondo yelling and Mikan getting scared while the other half is weird Toko interactions that doesn't really go anywhere. In other characters' TDP events they at least had an idea of what to do with the characters, but with Mikan they were like "Let's just throw characters with horrible attitudes at her and see what happens".

The only meaningful ones were with Tenko(which is OTP material), Chiaki-Mahiru-Ibuki(which are very sweet) and Nekomaru. Nekomaru's one really highlights that when you ACTUALLY TALK LIKE A HUMAN BEING INSTEAD OF BEING SO ZANY AND AGGRESSIVE she is very easy to approach, but of course Hiyoko comes in and ruins everything as usual.

I thought Junko's dialogue with Mikan is quite pleasant. In fact almost all of Junko's events can be used as Professor Enoshima's lesson on how to pretend to act like a normal human being in conservations. Using two extremes doesn't really drive the point across anyway. Junko was in a pleasant, normal persona when talking to Mikan and yet Mikan is still scared so it makes you appreciate how easily intimidated Mikan is. If Junko was in her queen/despair/really long tongue personas, that really doesn't say anything because we know in theory Junko's scary enough to put anyone to despair so Mikan being intimidated here would mean nothing.

Me, playing through Mikan's TDP

Sees Hiyoko appear

UNDO UNDO UNDO

I mean, even though I hate Hiyoko's guts her TDP events were pretty entertaining(Miu calling her jailbait is everything I could've ever asked for) , it's just that Mikan and Hiyoko doesn't mesh well one bit and I don't understand why the game has to show us that 4-5 times before giving up, it's just a waste of an interaction.

Hiyoko's are, but I don't get much pleasure out of seeing Mikan ad Hiyoko interact together because it's just going to be one sided attacks all the time. I think Hiyoko's character makes Mikan's work because we can see onscreen that Mikan is actually going through something, but it doesn't work when you mostly have Hiyoko around.

DR 3 was especially bad when it had it toned down like hiyoko was somewhat cool with her. That part where Mikan saves Hiyoko and gets a tsundere moment with her just sits so poorly with me.

Honestly I wasn't big on Mikan until I read her FTE's in Island Mode, which made me appreciate her character a ton more.

As far as I'm concerned, the Mikan Tsukimi of DR3 is not the same Mikan we knew in DR2.

In DR2, Mikan was shy and incredibly embarrassed about her fanservice moments, which mostly happened in stressful and confused situations. She showed a bit of sadomasochism, but the masochism seemed like more a coping mechanism while her FTEs suggested she really wanted to be the one in control and just lacked the will to do it due to constant abuse. There's obviously far more to her than those things, but we already had her DR2 analysis and this is (unfortunately) the only stuff that's relevant to this one.

In DR3, Mikan is fanservice girl. Her first act in the anime is throwing herself on the floor, and Hiyoko immediately says she does it every day. She doesn't even seem that flustered about it, and that's just the first scene with her in it. Once despair gets involved it gets much worse. Mikan is played up as being entirely masochistic, every word she speaks when talking to Ryota is about what Junko wants and what Junko does, not about Mikan and not a hint of her wanting to be in a position of dominance. Any personality or backstory outside of her sexuality (to what I assume is the writer's preferences) and the fact that she is technically a nurse is completely ignored.

If I were a cynic looking for sinister explanations, I would say they were just trying to say something like "Hey, don't worry about how she feels or the fact that she is horribly humiliated by her clumsy moments! It's okay that she is being played up for fanservice, look how she loves being humiliated! Even her beloved Junko is abusing her, so it's okay!"

That kind of flippancy with consent is hardly unique to this anime, I'm sure there's a few of you out there who know of other... "stuff" that pulls similar stunts, but it's entirely inappropriate for this setting and franchise where characters are usually played for realism. Yes, I know you probably didn't come to this thread wanting to discuss heavier stuff like consent, and I didn't really want to talk about it either, but given the nature of her character and her portrayal in the anime, I feel like I would be remiss to leave it out.

She's also complacent in what seems to be one of the most divisive points of the anime, Kyoko's revival. Doesn't say much about Mikan really, apparently they just thought that Kyoko coming back needed more explanation than "Please don't burn our houses down".

Since I think no one has brought it up...

I really love in case 2 of Dr2 it's implied she has killed before and is crazy even before the despair disease and in her life as a whole, how sometimes she snaps. All the despair disease did was amp that by a solid 11. She has alot going on in the background of Dr2.

(Dr3 despair arc. didn't touch on her at all and just was very bland for her)

maybe i did forget, but when it comes out that implication?!

https://youtu.be/kvvQoReW0gM?t=26m21s

I have jacked off to Mikan, that's all i have to say about Mikan.

TsundereKermit already covered all, but we did forget what it was a super popular "theory" before DR3 was even ideated,

i mean it's actually stupid, because this is a character analisy thread, not a shipping thread, so if you don't like shipping please skip this

DR3 destroyed Junkomikan

2-3 post trial and DR2 ending gave us the idea Mikan had romantic feeling for Junko, or they were even a couple! and many people theorized Junko used Girls Love's power to convert Mikan to the despair, i mean when everyone thinked how Junko converted everyone to the despair the Mikan's most popular was "Mikan falled in love with Junko because she was kind with her", Mikan Island Mode ending reinforce the idea Mikan would kill somebody for people that treat her well. In few words "Edgy Yuri" was the key behind Mikan's despair. gross but DR2 itself gave us this idea

DR3 burns all this, Junko didn't gave a shit about Mikan and Mikan never genuinely cared about Junko, the truth was Junko actually she just brainwashed her. lol. truly romantic. poor poor junkomikan shippers, not just that but also fans who draw/wrote about Junko and Mikan even being "friends" were probably disappointed now their works are far far away from canon.

I would love to be Mikan's shrink.

Tbh I really liked Mikan but in DR3 so many things happened with her plus she led my favourite character to a horrific and sad death.

-4 points 6 months ago 
She's always been garbage.

-1 points 6 months ago 
she's the only person to kill 2 waifus (Chiaki and Ibuki) But she also killed Hiyoko. She caused the DR2 cast to fall into despair, but also brought Kyoko back. Im not sure if I hate her or not

Why would you hate her for the DR 2 cast for falling into despair? She was just as much a victim and was brainwashed herself at the time. If we're to accept that as canon, then the only reason she acted the way she did in DR 2 was also due to that same brainwashing.

Character Discussion #50 - Juzo Sakakura (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Seeing the change between most hated character and most loved character was the biggest 180 ive ever seen this fandom done

[S]There are two kinds of people in the world.

Those who were there for the Juzo meme train in its entirety, and those that missed out on the greatest few weeks of humanity.

r/fuckjuzosakakura

Here's a sneak peek of /r/FuckJuzoSakakura using the top posts of all time!

#1: Upvote to change the sub into /r/Juzoboys
#2: Juzo Sakakura. If this is upvoted enough, it will show up in Google Images search when people search for Juzo Sakakura, Juuzou Sakakura or SHSL Boxer. | 1 comment
#3: Upvote to change this sub into /r/FuckChisaYukizome

I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact me | Info | Opt-out

Such good times LOL! J U Z O B O Y S remains iconic.

I can attest to be there the whole time. Such a wonderful sight.

local man ruins everything

[🍰]What? An actually masculine, flawed but not belittled gay character in anime? I was amazed

I seriously love this guy, he is such a dick in the best way and just wants to punch away all his problems, I laughed every time

He takes a barrage of missiles to the face and is barely inconvenienced. Respect.

Hoo boy, this might be a long one...

Juzo started out being reviled, and for good reason given that his early portrayal had pretty much no redeeming qualities. He assaults Naegi almost unprovoked while he can't defend himself, and beats down and degrades Hajime without giving him any sort of explanation. He's also partly responsible for the tragedy, due both to the aforementioned beatdown of Hajime and getting Munakata off Junko's trail.

It's arguable whether Hajime would've gone through with the Kamakura project anyway, but being told he could never aspire to be talented certainly didn't help. It's also arguable whether Munakata could've stopped Junko, but him not even trying meant the last chance of stopping her before it became a huge crisis was gone without a fight. Not to mention that he never really makes any effort to apologize or even imply that he might have been wrong, not even to Munakata about lying to him for several years. But in case anyone forgot, check this thread/video for a refresher on what an ass Juzo was in the early episodes. Also for funsies, go to some of the old Juzo threads and appreciate the irony of how many people were dreading that he was going to be "redeemed".

So with all that said, what are his virtues? Well, he saved Naegi from killing himself in the killing game... Maybe you could argue he sacrificed himself to stop the killing game, despite the fact that he was already dying and anyone could probably have pulled the levers... and that's about it as far as I can tell. I don't want to be unfair, so I'll admit that given that Hope's peak is hiding things from even their employees, it can't be easy being head of security, but Juzo being in charge certainly doesn't seem to have helped with stopping despair.

So why is he fairly popular despite seemingly being an overwhelmingly terrible person? We could say it's because of his dashing good looks or his sexy voice. There's also people who don't like Hajime and think he deserved it, or think that the case against Naegi WAS enough to warrant a bit of roughing up. But let's be honest, you know the real answer: it's because he's the first canonically gay character in danganronpa.

Sure, we've had hints of it from blushing and strong friendships that people interpret as being romantic, but this is the first time in the canon that they expressly say "this guy wants to bang this other dude". It also doesn't hurt that casual fans probably forgot the early episodes by the time his "redemption" came around (remember, it WAS several weeks between him chewing out the protag boys and him saving Naegi) so he was basically just another character in their minds by then.

Now that we've gotten that out of the way, who is Juzo? Well, he's probably one of the most characterized people in DR3, alongside Munakata. We know that he presupposes guilt, even with no evidence to back up the claim. We know he thinks talentless people are worthless, to the point that he would gladly fight a hundred of them at once because there's no way they could possibly beat him (except they do).

We know he's a violent person who punches first and asks questions later, despite the fact that he seems to be one of the least effective fighting-based talents in the canon, canonically losing to not only the reserve course, but also Tengan during Future arc (who not only lacks a combat talent as far as we know, but is also an old man even if he is spry for his age). We also know he always thinks that he's doing right, and as such never has any regrets for his dickish behavior (even lying to Munakata, which we don't know that he ever owned up to even on his deathbed).

He's absolutely loyal to Munakata... except when he isn't. When Munakata tells him NOT to hunt down Junko, he goes off on his own and does it anyway. When they're trapped in the killing game, he basically abandons everything the moment an exit appears (of course it's a trick, but the contestants didn't know that). Not to say he doesn't care about Munakata, he advises him to get medical help while wounded himself and generally does what he asks. It's not that he doesn't trust Munakata either, he definitely didn't foresee getting stabbed in the gut. Is there a reason? Maybe, I would guess that he's impulsive enough that he doesn't feel the need to follow an order he doesn't think is wise, but I don't really have evidence to back that up apart from the weirdness I'm trying to explain.

Overall, not someone I'd want to spend time with, but definitely a character instead of a cardboard cutout like some of the DR3 cast.

I can't believe I didn't say this before, but it's good seeing your posts now that these are up and running again. Seeing posts like these help me realize I'm not as alone in some of the characters I like/dislike and why.

Thanks, it ends up feeling like my posts for most of these analyses get ignored by the majority of people, which is a shame because I usually try to offer things worth considering when I write them.

Yeah. It's kind of a race to both be early and be more on fitting whatever the popular opinion is to really get notice.

I'm on the side that was mostly positive about Sakakura during the course of the anime and even after... as a character of course. Let's face it, as a person, he's a huge and petty piece of shit. I think that Kizakura's depiction of him fits perfectly : "a violent gorilla" whose "only talent in life is to punch people".

Thorough the whole course of the anime, Sakakura is a character who is defined by two major things : his dedication and loyalty to Munakata (similar to other characters extremely defined by how loyal they are to some people, like Mukuro or Pekoyama), and is mostly a giant failure at everything he does (which is even funnier in a way when you consider that his name in Japanese can be translated in a way to the number 13), like, almost every intention he has is a good one, but he does it in such a terrible way that he comes off in the end as being a huge dick, and I don't really expect to forgive him for the shit he did, whether he was not knowing something (punching Hinata without knowing anything and engaging him on a fight was still a dick move after all, and that's not all of course).

The twist of him being in love with Munakata I consider a good one, considering the fact that most people were expecting some sort of classic love triangle, and here they pull one in another direction to subvert that trope, but (and that's always an issue DR has) is that they don't really know how to close off the whole arc, so Sakakura in the end doesn't get that much of a closure for his arc. The whole "he's in love with a guy" gets lots of controversy for good reason when you don't know the context behind it but to sum it up, while there is still issues with that plot point (like how it's a stretch for Junko to do all these things in the anime without getting even caught like THREATENING THE SECURITY MAN WITH A HUGE BUNCH OF BRAINWASHED PEOPLE WITHOUT JIN KIRIGIRI EVEN NOTICING IT - and that makes DR1 even worse in that perspective), I do feel it's still to just outright blame the guy for just "ending the world" when, while he still did a dick move (jeez i lost the count at this point) for letting a student getting away with mass murder, it's still ridiculous to just say he ended the whole world when : - telling Munakata wouldn't have changed shit (and we all know Junko damn well to be pretty sure that Munakata would 100% get captured, tortured and killed and not specifically in that order, something that cannot be afforded to Sakakura), - she would still get away even if Munakata knew, - he didn't even know that she was planning to end the whole world with anime, and just the fact that everything done by Junko is already a huge stretch (since for the plot of Zetsubou-hen to work, everyone but Junko must be a complete idiot) - He shows and says that he regrets things (as I discussed a bit sooner on this thread), even though there are still things that are wrong with how he still tries to solve problems by punching.

Overall, I still like Sakakura and enjoyed him over the course of an anime that didn't really do justice to him (again, as a character) and the rest of the cast in it. I still think that the whole "did nothing wrong" is wild as hell, and that would be an issue for me if he actually got off with what he did with no consequences, which he didn't since he got axed among things, even in a poorly done way (like him dying for the rest to survive !!!.... but Munakata mourns him just five minutes and then forgets about him in the next episode and is ready to die for Naegi just because, and Naegi on that note being an asshole for not mentionner he saw Sakakura and instead waits until it's obvious as hell), but I still enjoyed his screentime and his character nonetheless (plus he gains points for not being on the 'Naegi Savior' kool-aid bullshit... until some point unfortunately, but hey.)

Junko THREATENING THE SECURITY MAN WITH A HUGE BUNCH OF BRAINWASHED PEOPLE

"Sir, Junko Enoshima has brainwashed a large amount of our staff to do her biddings. She must be expelled!"

Jin Kirigiri: "My, what magnificent talent! This student must not be expelled from Hope's Peak."

"Local man ruins everything"

but (and that's always an issue DR has) is that they don't really know how to close off the whole arc

Slightly Unpopular Opinion: I hate him more than Munakata.

Really don't like him. And I don't just mean in a "he's a terrible person" way (although he is that too), I mean I legitimately think the way he's written is kinda sloppy.

The way that he let Junko get off free is stupid, even if he didn't know she was gonna end the world, he still knew she was responsible for murder, and that she had (somehow) literally thousands of students under her control. Those are still terrible things that he let her get away with. And also, despite the "dirt" she supposedly had on him that "made" him do this... she really didn't have anything. There was no real proof. Even if she revealed the truth to Munakata, who is he gonna believe? His best friend and comrade who has stuck with him over the years and is fiercely loyal, or some bitch who's clearly crazy and responsible for murder and brainwashing? I guess you could just chock all that up to Juzo being an idiot and not thinking, but the story never really presents him as an unintelligible character. He's a bit of a "hit first, ask questions later" kinda guy, but he's not an idiot... except for when the story wants him to be an idiot for the sake of the plot (and here's the part where I could go into a big rant about DR3's storytelling and use of characters as a whole... but I don't want this to last forever).

And then when all shit breaks loose and he clearly does feel remorse for his actions, I'll give him that, but his solution to make amends for it is... to basically always do what Munakata says. Like, always always. Like, Juzo basically has zero autonomy anymore, he just does anything and everything for him, without question, and without any feelings towards anyone else. Despite them being a "trio", he really didn't seem that perturbed by Chisa's death, except in the way that it affected Munakata. He was willing to kill SO many people in the Future Foundation without blinking an eye, just because it's what Munakata wanted (again, here's where I could rant about DR3 and how atrociously it handled the Future Foundation as a whole, but that's more unnecessary ramblings).

I think it's actually kinda funny how people criticize Chisa's character for being "only about Munakata", but if you actually look at the narrative... it really wasn't? Like, she obviously had feelings for him, and they were working together, but she has plenty of aspects to her character (or at least had before the stupid brainwashing shit ruined her) beyond him; her dedication to her students, her excitement about teaching in general, her affirmation about how every person is precious, her love for Hope's Peak that spurred her on to try and save it, all these things exist without Munakata's influence.

And then you have Juzo, who's character (at least chronologically after the reveal, as pre-Future arc Juzo wasn't quite so much in that regard) is pretty much 100% about Munakata.

There's a part of me that wonders if he'd be as loved if he wasn't in love with Munakata. And I don't mean that in the dismissive, negative sense of "oh, people only like him because he's gay" kind of way (although I'm sure they exist, using that to generalize all people who like him is just dumb and kinda offensive). I mean that some people who are fans do seem to give at least somewhat of a pass to certain characters just because they had some form of "close" relationship with another character, and that closeness and fierce loyalty seems to make them forgive the specific character a lot easier.

fans do seem to give at least somewhat of a pass to certain characters just because they had some form of "close" relationship with another character, and that closeness and fierce loyalty seems to make them forgive the specific character a lot easier.

Mukuro Ikusaba the 16th student, hiding somewhere in the Academy. The one they call Ultimate Despair. Watch out for her.

I'm a big fan of Aomine so I liked his voice

Oh my, i have been waiting for this for a while

I fucking hate this prick for everything that he has done, Beating up someone handcuffed, beating the shit out of Hajime and saying the most hateful shit while at it to,Ahem, '''''protect him'''''', letting a criminal get away with her crime just so his friend doesn't find out he has feelings for him, leading towards a bunch of live + the Dr1 cast to die (to be fair, he didn't know how much damage Junko would do to the world, but the fact that he would let a criminal get away from their crime for a selfish reason still stands), wanting to beat up asahina for calling him out on his BS, just to beat up Ryota for standing up to her, leading towards Bandai to die beacuse he can't stop being a dickhead for 5 minutes, later is shown that he learned nothing from it, as he is still intetionally getting in the way of others in the FF that are figure out a way to stop the killing game, the list goes on

And what amazes me more is that people crucify other characters like Ryota, Hakagure, Kazuichi and any other character who does something selfish, but then praise this piece of shit who did something just as selfish

I don't even care if i get downvoted to oblivion, this guy gets on my nerves in many ways.

Part 1
Juzo has a very sad end where he dies helping Munakata with his last breath. I'll admit I have a really soft spot for the kind of characters who are close enough to consider each other like siblings, since it's more or less how I feel about my best friend who is more like a brother to me than anything.

Unfortunately, that's nowhere near enough to change my opinion of Juzo. I make the clear distinction that he's not a "Tragic" character, and calling a character tragic is not an excuse for them being an inconsistently written asshole that the writers try to force a sympathetic side to at the last minute. Same goes for a certain confectioner too. It's fine to make asshole characters. It's fine to make villainous characters, and it's fine to make tragic ones. Where they work and where they fail depends on who they act like assholes to and why they act that way.

Juzo very consistently makes selfish dickish choices and is motivated purely by a guy we rarely if ever see any genuine moments of friendship with apart from them looking back at old pictures and deciding that that should do. I wouldn't mind if he was a dick to only certain people, but he's a complete dick to pretty much any character even when they have nothing to do with the situation. He's a much darker take on the "bromance" group of characters where you have one prim and proper dude along with the more rogueish and thuglike dude (Ishimaru/Mondo, Hajime/Fuyuhiko, Munakata/Juzo, etc) and they establish that he's an asshole early on. Fair enough.

He gets Bandai killed early on by kicking the guy. Obviously he had no way of knowing what the rules were, but even if unintentionally (and even then by unintentionally, he still just kicked the shit out of someone pretty much unprovoked to begin with) he has absolutely no reaction or anything to someone he's allied with. No "shit, I fucked up again I'm so useless" no "I got him killed" nothing. Dude just proceeds to fight people at random if they have any kind of vague or concrete siding against Munakata, and even Munakata himself is just a dismissive asshole toward any concerns for him.

I understand that present day Munakata isn't on great terms with him, but there's little to no reference of what their relationship was like prior to the incident with Junko and everything else. They might have the characters reminisce very briefly or look at old photos, but the old adage of "show don't tell" applies tenfold when this is an entire character's motivation.

So Juzo just spends his time trying to kill people because Munakata. Maybe this would be a good time for him to go specifically after Makoto and say stuff "you think you're hot shit, don't you, you think you know better than the rest of us going off on your own like that?" This would actually tie in to better motivation for his character.

Instead, he goes around fighting whoever happens to be around, really. Time to try and kill Kyoko because Munakata and she's friends with Makoto. Time to fight Tengan because reasons. Time to fight Gozu and then Ruruka and then Kyoko again and then Koichi and then why the fuck do I care?

See, I don't mind him fighting people, but "I'm loyal to Munakata" doesn't cut it for me. It's not respectable or tragic or interesting if you don't sufficiently explain the previous state of their relationship beyond a bit of short and vague exposition. Luckily the Juzo vs Koichi scene is one of my favorites in all of DR 3, and even then it's more because of Koichi (more on that when we get to him though), but this has been painful to sit through.

There are also moments where he can have an interesting scene, but the point is soured by going too far or cartoonishly dickish. The go-to example Is Juzo beating the shit out of Hajime and then rationalizing it by saying he's trying to protect him by keeping him away

It'd be one thing to resort to force if Hajime had tried to sneak in later against Juzo's warning or he tries over and over again, but instead Juzo escalates the situation like crazy, beats the shit out of Hajime, spits on him, and proceeds to call him worthless and giving a condescending speech about how he hates normal people. It's completely unnecessary to go this far, and it doesn't give us anything insightful about his character that ties to his feelings toward Munakata, and because the events with Junko haven't happened yet, it doesn't tie to anything about his guilt.

The only thing you might point out is that it tells us a little bit that Chisa and Juzo disagree about beating the shit out of people, and even then you'd think she'd be a little more harsh, lose a bit of respect for him, talk it up with Munakata a bit or something. All you can really take from this scene is that Juzo is a condescending asshole even before anything related to the bulk of his character, and even that you kind of already got from him constantly just fighting whoever.

So Juzo gets stabbed by his bro and we see Munakata's "you know the reason why" line and then we have the big reveal in despair arc that Junko "incited a mob, is Munakata's prime suspect and needs to be investigated by Juzo" Enoshima defeated Juzo. She reveals that she knows about his sexuality and he makes a conscious choice to hide this fact.

First of all, it's pretty weak to pull the "gay as the big reveal" trope this late in the anime. Even if it was obvious, it was clearly done both late in the anime and fairly late in the episode to be a stinger, one that lets us go back and understand previous scenes a bit more. For all intents and purposes, it's pretty much the "Chihiro is a boy" twist, but while that one is still a bit of shock value, it at least tied into Chihiro's character and helped explain a mindset he wanted to work out of. It was just purely there to be there. Even then it had its point muddied a few times.

I can't forget when DR 3 was running and some went as far as calling Juzo a respectable representation of LGBTQ characters, which is laughable. Hs sexuality is mostly thrown out at the last minute purely for shock value, and no amount of "but Japanese culture" will change that. Just because a character doesn't fit one specific stereotype of queer identity doesn't suddenly make them an amazing representation, and it doesn't mean they use the character's queerness for something more of a problem.

Making Juzo's feelings for Munakata romantic doesn't change much, and if anything further bastardizes his character. We already saw that he had third-wheel feelings for Chisa and Juzo, but making it romantic doesn't make it more deep because that feeling was already established. It sure as hell doesn't further justify his actions being done out of loyalty to Munakata either. Reducing a character's dickish choices to romance eliminates any kind of nuance in what you can explore about the character.

Peko was a much better handling of this, even if she was fairly one note and there more to serve Fuyuhiko's character. Peko makes a pretty unsympathetic decision to kill Mahiru and try to sacrifice the group to save Fuyuhiko. There's more to it than just "I have feelings for Fuyuhiko and I can't let him down." We see that Peko has a major inferiority complex, and her brief time tells us that it goes to the point where she doesn't see herself as an equal to Fuyuhiko. One simple yet effective scene to get this across is where Fuyuhiko looks at Mahiru's photos later in the game and sees the two of them together and comments on their body language in the photo and the fact that they're together in it. Peko attempts to argue that she's a tool during the class trial, and she's pretty hard on herself saying some people exist for no purpose other than to serve others during the case. It's pretty heartwrenching in the moment, but it also gives us insight about how Peko thinks beyond just "I love Fuyuhiko."

When she dies, the game acknowledges that her behavior is unhealthy. When you get the bonus content of the game and see her develop, she wants to break out of her way of thinking and see Fuyuhiko as her equal. She doesn't want to just stick in her unhealthy mindset, and right before she dies, she urges everyone not to kill for something so reckless like she did. The game gives us both insight about her and then acknowledges where she lacks in sympathy, so while it's a sad story and she killed Mahiru and almost got the entire class killed, it feels more consistent because the game acknowledges where Peko does and does not deserve sympathy. It also helps us learn about Fuyuhiko since the two have conflicting goals during the class trial and are both desperately trying to save the other. Neither are entirely sympathetic at all, but they both still work excellently as characters because the game acknowledges their misdeeds, and their misdeeds made sense to begin with.

With Juzo, we don't have that same kind of insight clashing with Munakata. He just beats the shit out of anyone who can even vaguely be called a proxy to Makoto in an attempt to tie things to his Junko guilt, and because it's reduced down to just love for Munakata and in conflict with wanting to atone for his misstep with Junko, it really doesn't come together well. Juzo I think has good ideas going, but none of them are fully realized because his actions are all over the place and he ends up being a giant asshole to random people for no real reason relating back to his character. It's not tragic, it's not insightful, he's just an asshole that got a really sad looking ending.

I can't forget when DR 3 was running and some went as far as calling Juzo a respectable representation of LGBTQ characters, which is laughable. Hs sexuality is mostly thrown out at the last minute purely for shock value, and no amount of "but Japanese culture" will change that

Thanks for bringing this up. His sexuality ends up being slightly more relevant than his haircut, I would never consider him a good representation

I remember after episode 11(?) of future arc aired, someone said that any other show would've had Munakata reunite with Juzo before he died, as if DR invented tragic moments too

Juzo is a laughably bad character. He's definitely one of my favorites in DR3 just because of how much conflict and dynamic he brings. He's just a reckless, torrent of chaos and destruction and receives so many consequences for his awful and easily avoidable choices

I actually liked him before the reveal because he was just kind of an attack dog, it's just hard to reconcile the "tragic" part of his character with one we knew

So yeah, I do like Juzo a lot. Like you said, so bad he's entertaining

Part 2
Juzo manages to not kill someone for once, he cuts his hand off, and…I guess as a form of character development he prevents Makoto from killing himself, which isn't a particularly high moral wall to climb. Not only that, but the confirmation that the DR 2 cast was brainwashed really kills most of the dilemma future arc set up since it skews the whole thing very much in Makoto's favor. It'd be more of a discussion if Makoto knowingly harbored terrorists that could have still been incredibly dangerous and taking them god know's where. Instead, they just show that they were entirely victims themselves and the FF didn't even bother with the neo world program option and just opted to kill them right away, so anyone on the "punish makoto" faction comes off as less believable and understandable because of how poorly the dilemma was resolved. Thus, Juzo really has no real thing to atone from so he went from being a giant asshole to still an asshole that realized that using Makoto as a proxy for his own guilt was wrong which…anyone could have told him, and then he dies deactivating the power to save Munakata.

His biggest selling point is that while he is a complete asshole and one I feel isn't well written, he is very consistently entertaining. He's bad, but he's hilariously bad and gave something more engaging to go with in DR3.

You must have alot of freetime to make these novel lenght texts

These don't take very long for me to write since it comes naturally to me. It ends up being a running joke from older posters because I don't edit these and they often have very amusing typos.

I find the argument against Juzo's character to be meaningless in the context of the post-Tragedy world. The world has already ended. Both he and Munakata at worst is some kind of incompetent yet ruthless dictator. Having such a person in charge of the world is still a lot better than Junko or Makoto or Tengan or Mitarai.

After Junko's removed from the picture it's pretty clear that the take-no-prisoners approach he and Munakata uses does produce results. Sure a lot of people might have their feelings hurt or end up accidentally dead but it's still a huge improvement from the end of human civilization. Could the world have produced someone more competent to rebuild? Sure. It's hard to see even Weedman being less competent than the people that are supposed to lead the world of DR, but for whatever reason these leaders are who we have to work with.

Juzo is a poorly developed character whose biggest accomplishment is that he didn't quite single-handedly cause the end of the world. That's still a solid resume compared to the other guys that show up in leadership positions in DR and that makes him a hero in the world of DR.

A known gay. A well written character. Not my favorite, but not a bad character by any means. Juzo respecting juice.

JUZO IS OUR BOOOOY

NotMyBoy

The lack of a hashtag makes your opinion irrelevant.

Mostly a dumb piece of shit.

If only Oma was in that world, he would've revealed that Juzo was lying about Junko not being the culprit and that he was gay #DamnitOma Jokes aside, come on, if I have to choose between condemn the world or be recognised as gay, I'd choose the second, at least the world would be fine. Aside from that, I liked his character, it gave me a "How Danganronpa would've been if Mondo survived longer" vibe, it was cool. But no way the muscular character will live, as we know, he was doomed since the start.

He had a good final episode. I just wish he was like that in all the other appearances because you would think he was the leader of Ultimate Despair for how much he seemed to go out of his way to ruin everything. It's basically his fault that so much of the world gets destroyed, seeing as he let Junko get away with everything and he was the straw that broke the back of Hajime's camel. He also plays a big part in assuring the Killing Game plays out. Sure, he's ultimately the one who saves Naegi and ends the game all by himself, but by that point I would say it's too late and that it doesn't really redeem the mess he caused.

Somehow, still not the DR3 character I hate the most. There's three others I hate more than him.

DOES
JUZO
SAKAKURA
IS
G A Y Y Y Y Y Y
I'm not sure, but he's a fucking asshole who's just as much a victim of DR3's infuriating and abysmal writing as the rest of the FF are.

There was absolutely nothing that could stop our boy Juzo.

DID NOTHING WRONG

Right, killing Bandai (albeit unintentionally), beating up a handcuffed Naegi AND Hajime, and generally being a dick before changing his ways don't qualify as being wrong.

Juzo ended up being a good-aligned character but he definitely had his faults.

Even if it was unintentional, he just brushes it off like nothing happened and is a pretty dismissive asshole about someone dying, to say nothing of the fact that he just attacked someone pretty much unprovoked, which was what caused the whole thing to begin with.

He's just an angry boi.

I'll give you that!

Dude condemned the world to despair by covering for Junko rather than admit to his boy love. That's kinda not great.

I agree it's still a dick move, but when you consider that he couldn't know who Junko was at the time (like WE the audience know what she is since we know the whole series by now), but does the characters IN UNIVERSE know ? Besides, do you even know the context behind why he couldn't tell him ? No ? Exactly.

I understand that telling him would be an incredible sacrifice. I also understand that he knew damn fucking well that he should have anyways.

What he did know, at the time, was that this girl organized a gigantic mass murder/suicide that destroyed Hope's Peak, both a beacon of hope and a reservoir of talent. She had already shown herself to be immensely dangerous.

So what does he do? He lies about a mass murdering psychopath, to the person he loves, to cover for himself. Dude was even more cowardly that Mitarai at that point.

Don't be condescending to people.

Sorry for being condescending then. I get that he still is responsible for sucking at his job (which is adressed in-universe) and lying about a murderous psychopath is his fault and he got what he deserved, but keep in mind he didn't know about the whole « a girl ended the whole world » and yet people still keep him as the one who made the whole world end when all he did was being a huge idiot.

I don't forgive the guy for all the bad shit he does, and boy does he do a lot. The people who just forgive him for all those things are wild, really. But blaming him the whole end of the world is laughable in my eyes. (Also, dunno about being more cowardly than Mitarai, that one guy got more chances to speak his mind and was even more involved than Sakakura at this point, and he got off with no consequences at the end.)

Basically, I think that Juzo did a lot of wrong but we do know from how he punched Hajime with the intention of keeping him away from stuff that would get him killed that it's less that he's an evil or bad person and more that he's extremely stubborn and single-minded. With that being said I'd still put him in the Jerk with a Heart of Jerk territory, haha.

As for Junko I won't deny his choice was rash and made things a lot worse, but realistically he couldn't have been psychic enough to know such a thing would have led to the destruction of the world. That's the only slack I'm cutting him, he was irresponsible and he lied to someone he shouldn't have, but the consequences were genuinely something he couldn't see so it's unfair to put all the blame on Juzo when Junko's set-up isn't something he could have feasibly stopped even if he told Munakata. I wonder too if perhaps he feared Munakata himself might get killed considering how terrible Junko is, and his love and fear combined with an already knee-jerk personality leads him into making the worst decision, something that ends up bleeding into why he hates Naegi as he was weak and actually makes his dying moment of awesome better because he stopped being a coward.

He's not the worst character ever; I actually enjoy him overall, but as a flawed character. Whether or not he tries to make up for his mistakes during the Killing Game aside, I just can't forgive his decision to accept the blackmail terms. Even if Junko had "only" caused the Hope's Peak Incident, which she had set in motion before Juzo's blackmail, his decision would still have been unacceptably cowardly and selfish. That she then began the full Tragedy I won't even (fully) hold against him, but he still should have know damn well that she'd go on to do something bad. He may not have been able to imagine the full scope, but given that her first act was to destroy Hope's Peak and everyone involved, it's not like she was a petty threat.

I will bring it up in the post I'm actually writing for this thread (bout time I get into those discussions), but I'd argue that they show him regretting his actions (not only does he say it, but he also show it). I have more of an issue with Sakakura not learning much and still continuing to punch things over the course of the anime

I'll absolutely agree that he does show that he ends up regretting it horribly; it's one of the reasons that I hate his one action but not him as a character. And once the Tragedy happened, there really wouldn't have been a point to telling the truth anymore, so it's not even like he could undo his mistake. Not until the sacrifice in the game.

My issue was with the implication that Juzo never did anything wrong; he absolutely made the wrong call with the blackmail. But I can respect that he ended up recognizing that fact as well.

As for his punching, I don't even hold that against him much. He'd made shitty choices and the one thing he had been able to contribute to the cause for years was pure brawn. By basically acting as little more than Munakata's fist, he didn't have to dwell on things like right and wrong anymore, or consider responsibility. It was his escape from his guilt, to just be Munakata's unquestioning tool. Again, not the smartest move, but he also turns heel on that mistake as well. It's why he saves Makoto; it's only at the end that he finally draws up the courage to think for himself again and confront all his own shitty choices, then actually redeems himself pretty damn well.

Super late answer, but had to. His blackmail choice is ridiculous. Even if he didn't know the extend of the danger ahead, you are believing some unknown but dangerous person's word: I mean, she could tell Munakata anyway; even then, if he likes him, that would be the best option, to help him.

If you couldn't tell, Juzo is by far my favorite character in the series. I just love the development he gets from Jackass to full blown hero. Best gay character ever. Best Boxer ever. Juzo Fucking Sakakura. The Ultimate Hero.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPRSrLpBZL0

I liked how badass he was, even if he was kind of a jerk sometimes.

Terrible character with the worst redemption arc Ive ever seen. One of the biggest assholes in the entire series.

Literally just Mondo but worse in absolutely every way.

He's a few inches away from dethroning my most hated anime character, but only because he wasn't a mindless zealot that misuses a certain word. Doesn't excuse him from being an unintentional Hitler, helped ensured the Holocaust Tragedy, and being a disrespectful, hypocritical brute every time they give him any screen time. The only thing I feel sorry for are the VAs that had to voice him. Outside of that, I'm glad he died a miserable death and was quickly forgotten afterwards.

Character Discussion #51 - Kazuo Tengan (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


"I don't believe it...Tengan really was with the Remnants of Despair..."

"Ehhh, who cares?"

Aoi is my spirit animal

The dumbest, most cowardly idiot in Danganronpa.

Almost all of the major plot issues with the Future Arc are this bastard's fault. The entire killing game was because he was too cowardly to just bitchslap Ryota and take the Hope video; he had to have Ryota come to the conclusion that he should play it himself.

But why? Tengan could live with causing the deaths of numerous Future Foundation members, chosen at random, but playing the Hope video crossed some magical moral threshold? This can't be chalked up to "despair"; this is just dumb.

I feel like I'm one of the few who managed to still enjoy DR3 overall, but one of the ways I did it was to blame Tengan in-universe for how stupid an idea the Final Killing Game was rather than blaming the writers out of universe. And since literally nothing argues against him being a fucking idiot in the show, it holds up for me.

Ryota Mitarai would like to have a word

Ryota is exactly who I had in mind when I called Tengan the biggest coward.

Tengan couldn't even bring himself to just take and play the Hope video, so he went to all this stupid trouble to push Ryota to do it. He couldn't take that responsibility. And Ryota, the coward who basically enabled the Tragedy, actually managed to sack up more than Tengan did. Ryota then got more shit done in one episode that Tengan did in years, let alone across the whole Final Killing Game. (Unfortunately what he was getting done was stupid, but this is a discussion about courage, not intelligence. Both of them seemed to be dumb as rocks.)

I can at least accept his plan of making Ryota want to show the world the Hope video, but the fact that Tengan throws Ryota into the Final Killing Game is just beyond stupid.

Ryota wasn't supposed to be there. Tengan looks shocked when Ryota walks in, meaning he had to wing it when it came to Ryota's involvement.

2 words

C O M P L E X M O T I V E S

And terrible fucking mastermind.

Mind Hacks

He's not that bad, i mean, he...
He's totally that bad fuck this. He might be the worst character of the main series when it comes to execution. Nothing falls as flat in its face and explodes like Tengan does.
He has 4 entries on the "What an Idiot" tvtropes page and they're all perfect. Fuck this character, he represents Danganronpa 3 perfectly: good intentions and potential but ultimately a complete and utter disaster that is so broken and disfunctional it barely even registers as part of a story.

The page in question, for those who don't want to track it down: http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/WhatAnIdiot/DanganRonpa

I was expecting Junko to come out and say 'Hey guys, I know it looks like anybody with funny eyes can come up with a plan to destroy the world, but it's not that easy. See Tengan here as a proof that Despair can't fix stupid.'

DR in general has a problem with understanding that just because the whole premise is pretty whacky doesn't mean characters should act like they're too dumb to live, and Tengan seems to want to show that it is actually possible to be too dumb to live in DR, but the only lesson you get is that stupidity kills even in DR.

I'm guessing more the reason is that they wanted to do a "mastermind died during the killing game" twist without thinking through how to do that well.

DR3 basically needs a game to prevent Munakata's brute force method of simply killing everyone else that isn't himself until he killed the right guy. It has to be something like how Junko's rigged the air filters to fail if she dies so that you can't just immediately try to kill her in DR1. I think DR3's problem is that it made all this big deal about how this isn't a game anymore and yet the results only make sense if it was a controlled game like DR1 or DR2.

Munakata actually has everything figured out pretty well as he correctly noted that the world isn't going to end if he's the only survivor left, and given the existence of brainwash technology an ending where he kills everyone else can't possibly be worse than him just being immediately brainwashed and end up doing the same thing. The overwhelming advantage the Mastermind has actually makes it very easy to form a plan against him, since the Rambo scenario that Munakata was going for is now a perfectly valid solution compared to being brainwashed so you might as well go for it. DR1/DR2's environment only works because the Mastermind cannot kill people for arbitrary reasons. Otherwise why would you kill your friend if you think you can still die anyway?

Tengan's character and reveal as the mastermind represents everything wrong with the Future Arc and DR3 in general. He is inconsistent, he is a waste of material that could've been used elsewhere, and most of all he is unsatisfying.

Tengan started off as a pretty boring character in the first three episodes. I pegged him as a really early death so it was annoying how he was surviving as far as he did while a fun character like Gozu bit the dust at the beginning, especially because he wasn't adding anything of value. He wasn't my least favorite character at the time, but he was boring.

However, Tengan moved up my rankings when episode 4 aired. Him being a badass grandpa was entertaining and I was thrilled when he kicked Juzo's ass since I didn't care about him at all at the time. Even then, Tengan still suffered with a lack of depth to his character. The writers never explained where and why Tengan gained his incredible fighting skills because his position doesn't require such talent. All we are left with is: "Grandpa is powerful badass because why not?" For what we got from Tengan before his reveal, he was an alright character.

After his death, I didn't put much focus on Tengan's character anymore because I didn't know what else the writers needed to do with him. He served his part and that was that. Now going to near the end of the anime, this subreddit was holding a lot of discussions as to who could the traitor and mastermind be? I found the brainwash theory to be perfectly reasonable so I jumped on board with that, but I was really interested in the idea of Chiaki or Chisa as the mastermind and alive because it serves as a fulfilling final boss to the Hope's Peak trilogy and makes good use of some of the DR3 characters.

All of this anticipation quickly turned into concern however in episode 11 when it was heavily foreshadowed that Tengan was the mastermind. I didn't find any logical theories to how Tengan could still be alive nor how he would be the mastermind. Because of this, I became really disappointed that Tengan was shaping up to be the mastermind of the killing game because the fact that he was dead(which turned out to be true) kills any tension or interesting confrontation like with Junko. What could have been an exciting climax became an underwhelming twist and left at that.

So what do I think of Tengan as a mastermind? He is complete garbage. His motives are nonsensical, idiotic, contradictory, and shallow. /u/TsundereKermit
 pointed out most of the plot holes with Tengan's plan and how his ultimate goal to get Mitarai to show his hope video to the world quickly crumbles once you start to look at all the mistakes in his plan that were unnecessary and easily avoidable. I hate how not only was Tengan's plan illogical and ridiculous, but it makes the entire killing game centered solely around Mitarai's shitty character, but I'll get to him when it's his day.

Tengan was originally a decent enough character, but he was absolutely ruined when he was thrown into the mastermind role. His actions were frustrating and simply poorly written. One of the worst things to ever come from this series.

I spend a lot of time lurking on this subreddit but don't post too often, but Tengan is someone I have a lot of thoughts on so I'm coming out of hiding.

My thinking on Tengan is that he is a character who greatly suffers from DR3's being an anime instead of a game, mostly due to time restrictions, as I think the shift in medium helps it in other places, but that's another discussion for another day. He doesn't get that several hours of elaboration Junko gives the first two games, and because of that a lot of his motives aren't spelled out, and what little explicit exposition you do get is rushed, as there's a ton of shit going on with everyone trying to get to Ryota and fighting through brainwashed FF troops. Looking back at what there is of Tengan you can kind of see what the writers were going for but they seemed to just run out of time.

Ryota believes the Future Foundation is the world's hope. A symbol that this world isn't beyond saving. Tengan, being the head of the organization knows better. He sees all the internal drama of the group. Kyosuke is basically an extremist, Juzo will follow him to the ends of the earth, Chisa is part of Ultimate Despair, not to mention that some members like Ruruka are planning on leaving the organization to form their own. The FF is viewed as a this world's saving grace, and we see Ryota's belief in them play out in the early episodes of Future Arc. Like when he starts to break down in front of Kyoko after the second time limit.

This knowledge, followed by Tengan's dying conversation with Kyosuke, implies Tengan doesn't believe in the Future Foundation as anything more than a group of extremists who think violence is the only means to the end they want. What's the only other way Tengan knows to bring hope to the world? A manufactured one through Ryota's techniques, but as I mentioned earlier, Ryota doesn't believe this. What we see of Tengan is he doesn't look to force his students into things. He wants them to make their own decisions like he entrusted Ryota with. But if he wants Ryota to use his brainwashing to rid the world of despair, he has to prove to him that this solution he believes in isn't what he thinks it is.

The Final Killing Game is an attempt to expose the Future Foundation for what Tengan sees it as: A lost cause. Ryota is supposed to see this, realize this pedestal he holds these people on is one based on a false vision of them.

Which, in a way, is kind of similar to what Junko did with the first to killing games: Exposing how despair can erode away at symbols of hope. But Tengan's end game was obviously different.

But you don't explicitly get that exposition. It's all implied, but because it is presented that way the threads that tie it all together just aren't as noticeable as say, Junko straight up laying it out in front of you.

I don't know that it would've been enough for everyone, but I think had Episode Hope been say, an hour long episode with the first thirty minutes being a sort of behind the scenes look at Tengan's motivations, then the second half being the finale we got, it might have helped Tengan make sense. Looking back at Tengan's limited screen time, I feel like I get him, but I think the show does him a disservice by not letting him speak for himself. But I guess that's what happens when the mastermind dies in the game.

Completely agree with you actually. I think the lack of explanation on Tengan's part is one of the things that hurt the show the most.

Well said. I think there a lot of interesting ideas behind Tengan; the mastermind who actually died mid-game was interesting, having him be an hope-obsessive rather than a despair-obsessive was a neat subversion, and it feels like there's a lot of fascinating implicit backstory behind him. And his fight scenes were animated really nicely, so there's that.

The problem is, as you say, he doesn't get enough explanation and the characterization seriously suffers as a result. Giving him some back story in Episode Hope or even Despair Ep 11 (the mastermind was pretty obviously Tengan by the point) would have helped. Most damningly, we never really hear any of the exposition from Tengan's own mouth; it all comes from the speculation of Naegi/Munakata, and then the Junko recap at the end. If he was in an actual game, with a set of free-time events then I'm certain it would read a lot better, but the restrictions of the medium didn't treat him well.

Tengan being the mastermind is probably the least sensible twist in the series.

It's incredibly hard to believe that the same guy who is chairman of Future foundation started the killing game. His first appearance in future arc is mediating and running the FF meeting. During this he says that the building is safe and trying to stop people from fighting. During the killing game he defends Naegi and fights Munakata's merry murder band. His appearance in Despair arc makes things more confusing, with him trying to convince Hajime not to take on the Kamakura project and advising Jin Kirigiri.

His stated motivation in starting the killing game doesn't make sense either. I'm not versed in Japanese business practices, so I don't know if there's some obscure model that changes things, but surely the chairman could just call a vote to have the hope anime released if that was his goal, or even give a direct order if Ryota's working under him. Even assuming he doesn't have the authority to order it outright, it doesn't seem like there would be too much argument against something that could ostensibly defeat despair in a single strike, unless Munakata was in a sensible enough state to realize that more brainwashing is not a good solution to brainwashing.

Not to mention, locking Ryota in a killing game with no way to defend himself with people Tengan knows for a fact have combat experience and weapons... People who are being told to perform a witch hunt to find and kill a person that doesn't actually exist, with no way of stopping the killing game apart from turning off the power... Well, you get the picture, it's not a very good way of ensuring he lives to send out his broadcast.

And I know, "despair" and such, he got brainwashed by watching the video and so he wants to blah blah blah... I'll just say that having swathes of the plot explained as saying it doesn't have to make sense because they're crazy is not good writing. Granted, original flavor Junko isn't much better, but it's not her time yet and I think she actually got more interesting in DR3.

IMO, it actively makes him a worse character by having that twist as well: he could've been that badass but still wise old guy that Munakata killed off without considering what he was doing. Instead, thanks to the fact that he was apparently not himself from the start, the guy we saw in Future arc was a lie and we know nothing about him outside of the few lines he gets in despair arc as a minor character. Considering he's ostensibly the mastermind behind everything, and thus should be one of the most important characters in Future arc, that's not good.

I alluded to it in Bandai's analysis, but the Tengan twist is one of the big things that makes me think the story was rewritten as some point during production. Not sure what the original intent may have been with Tengan, it could easily have just been for him to die saying something sassy to Munakata, but I doubt it was for him to be the mastermind.

Also, they probably undersold the lethality of that wrist-gun a bit. Not a huge deal, unless you're a weapon aficionado.

His appearance in Despair arc makes things more confusing, with him trying to convince Hajime not to take on the Kamakura project and advising Jin Kirigiri.

He was using reverse psychology on Hajime IMO. For me it was obvious he actually wanted to go through with the project.

I got this impression too. He worded his arguments in such a way that he ended up calling Hajime "talentless" and "normal" a number of times, which you just know would have cut Hajime deep.

Haha

I feel like people will say "he's not not bad" which I guess I kinda agree with, kinda. Kazuo Tengan the talentless chairmen of Hopes Peak Academy is a waste of a decently good character, when we first saw him, he wasn't the best but he was badass and entertaining, something that none of the Future characters could pull off without being cringe-worthy, but then came his downfall. I understand Tengan isn't the worst character in Future Arc but he turned into an interesting badass grandpa that was entertaining to someone I could care less about that got extremely boring really quickly. At least Yukizome's transformation as the bad guy felt like a good way to make her become a bad guy, even if it doesn't fit her character at all and it might be a tad bit rushed, Tengan was mastermind because Yukizome was the mastermind and that's it. Tengan doesn't have a cool backstory, he's not even interesting or barely relevant to the story to begin with so all I have to say is "what's the point?"

Final Thoughts: Could've been a decent Future Arc character but he was ruined because of the plot

He was pretty cool when he was fighting Munakata and stuff.

But then things got COMPLEX.

A plan so convoluted for such a basic result that it made elements of the ZTD ending make sense. Tengan was actually kind of cool if generic at first, but his mastermind reveal just completely ruined him post-humorously.

There is no justification for why he had to kill off everybody, and even then he still left Aoi's boss (Whoever the hell that is) out of the equation so there would have STILL been some Future Foundation left to deal with Ryota the cowards shenanigans. Like, even if you have issues with the way Munakata and Juzo were handling things and you didn't trust Chisa, why the hell are you dragging Bandai and Seiko into this, and also giving them unwinnable bracelets anyway? What the hell does he even see in a shut-in coward like Ryota that he can't see in Naegi? WHY NOT JUST USE THE DAMN VIDEO YOURSELF?!

I hate Ryota and candy girl more because at least Tengan has the excuse of "oops I watched the video, guess that's messed my head up a little". But still, in the bottom three characters.

I'm not one to defend Tengan but...

There is no justification for why he had to kill off everybody, and even then he still left Aoi's boss (Whoever the hell that is) out of the equation so there would have STILL been some Future Foundation left to deal with Ryota the cowards shenanigans. Like, even if you have issues with the way Munakata and Juzo were handling things and you didn't trust Chisa, why the hell are you dragging Bandai and Seiko into this, and also giving them unwinnable bracelets anyway?

Bandai was clearly just a sacrifice for the greater good. Seiko supported Munakata's side

What the hell does he even see in a shut-in coward like Ryota that he can't see in Naegi?

Like Munakata, Tengan obviously had his reservations regarding Naegi. Perhaps he didn't believe Naegi's platitudes would be enough to reach what he considers to be true hope and he knew Ryota could have achieved that if he used the video.

WHY NOT JUST USE THE DAMN VIDEO YOURSELF?!

Probably because he was old and dying. He said as much, he wanted someone to pass his will to and Ryota was perfect for it since he had the means to achieve Tengan's ideal and a personality that could be influenced.

On the first point - the plan didn't require him to kill off everybody without exception, it only required killing enough leaders to push Ryota over the edge and release the video. Presumably Aoi's boss was unavailable to attend the meeting, as was Togami's team, but killing the rest was clearly enough to influence Ryota.

Also, he clearly didn't care about the likes of Bandai or Seiko, he just wanted some more Future Foundation leaders to murder. Distributing unwinnable bracelets works to his advantage, since he wants there to be deaths.

What the hell does he even see in a shut-in coward like Ryota that he can't see in Naegi?

It's important to remember that Naegi had just smuggled the Remnants of Despair into the Neo World Program, and then released them back into the world. In the eyes of the Future Foundation, he was not exactly trustworthy. Mitarai was a much more predictable (and easier to manipulate) choice for Tengan.

And yeah, fuck Ruruka.

A lot of people don't know this, but Tengan truly did fall to despair. The Danganronpa Gaiden Manga (which is canon) reveals he did watch the despair video at some point... like a dumbass. It makes his motives even more complex because if he did the killing game to have Ryota put hope into people, but he was brainwashed into despair.... unless he was trying to pull a Junko where bringing hope would bring him despair...?

His character is dumb and confusing. I think that's all that needs to be said.

At the very least he had some badass moments before his reveal.

Despair isn't good enough to justify his actions, though. Not when he could have just shot Ryota and taken the Hope video, playing it for everyone. The Killing Game was an uninspired, bad idea. Hell, if Ryota had slept too close to a monitor? Game Over.

Once again. It sort of loops around to the despair he'll get if his plan fails.

Not trying to defend his actions, no, there still stupid. I'm just trying to understand what the hell he was doing and him being brainwashed with despair (Which is canon) and setting up a plan that could fail like Junko always does is the only thing I can think of to explain his actions.

Junko's plan had the benefit of doing something useful just by happening, succeed or fail. The game itself serves a larger purpose, spreading despair elsewhere. It wasn't meant to accomplish anything at its end, so it didn't really matter to her who survived. When Junko needed something specific done, in every version of her that we've seen, she was instead brutally effective and direct.

Tengan wanted X to be done (Ryota plays his video), but went about it in the most ass-backwards way. If anything, it's more of a miracle that it worked, because it sure wasn't a credit to his planning.

The big takeaway from this is that if the games want to improve their villains, they need to move away from just taking two words and having each character repeat those two words over and over again. Hope/despair/future/truth/lies all fall under that, and when it's used as liberally as it is in DR, it loses its edge and becomes hallow.

Just a reminder that Danganronpa's universe has virtual reality simulators, brainwashing capabilities, advanced enough AI to have humanlike robots, but getting a video file off a cell phone is apparently too much for our mastermind.

It can't be a technical limitation that stopped him; it had to be an emotional one. Like he couldn't bring himself to do it. But he could show all this horrible shit to Ryota, and let him decide. "If Ryota isn't convinced, then I guess it shouldn't be done! Now that I've decided to trust his judgement, I'm going to manipulate the shit out of him with a Killing Game."

I don't know if I could accept even that, because I don't see how endangering someone's life (and more logically, giving someone a NG code that prevents them from doing the thing you want them to do) would suggest he has an emotional reason not to act.

There's absolutely no reason he can't just seize the phone from Ryota and find a way to get the file. He makes absolutely no sense.

It's just people desperately trying to find ways to rationalize Tengan
He's a writing disaster, so people try to wrap their heads about it however they can

The whole thing was a risk from the beginning: what if he just wasn't convinced? Having him witness first-hand was the best way to make him feel it, and restricting his talent would make him remarkably aware of how much his talent could have changed the outcome.

Tengan didn't give a fuck about Ryota ending the Killing Game. He wanted Ryota to use the Hope video on the world. He was banking on:

That Ryota would survive the game (maybe he was set to never be chosen as the suicide victim?), and...

That Ryota would be convinced by the killing to use the Hope video.

It's still a stupid fucking plan, don't get me wrong. It's just not completely without sense.

Restricting his talent makes it damn near impossible for Ryota to do what Tengan wants him to do. It's a pointless risk because if he wants to have the hope video played, he could just plan on Ryota being in the game and then making his forbidden action "not using your talent by end of round 1" or something. He could literally just ask Ryota, who seemed to be more motivated out of his frustration with Makoto's hope rather than the killing game when he used the hope video.

He has the future foundation at his disposal. He could seize the phone and I cannot accept that they don't have advanced enough tech to simply rip the file off and have him play it himself.

Everything about his plan is roundabout and pointless, and those risks are completely unnecessary.

It is completely without sense.

Tengan could've at least swapped Munakata's 'don't open doors' or even his own 'must answer truthfully' with Mitarai's code and that'd have at least slightly increased the chance Mitarai would survive. They can at least show a flashback scene of Tengan faking some deductive stuff and warning Mitarai to stay away from monitors.

I don't get why you think Ryota needed his talent during the game. The game began, continued, and ended, without him needing it. The second Ryota can use his talents, the game is over. And then he hasn't been pushed to the limits of his despair.

The game needed to make him feel helpless. Powerless. Useless.

I absolutely agree that the Foundation would have had the tech to pull the file off his phone, which is why Tengan could have only gone this direction on purpose.

Tengan built a chance of failure into his plan (too high of one, I agree) to wash his hands of the responsibility of the Hope video. If Ryota dies, or lives but chooses not to use the video? Then I guess it wasn't meant to work! That's why Tengan isn't just an idiot, he's a coward.

continue this thread

I think it's safe to assume that Ryota has some kind of security on his phone that contains the brainwashing video, so presumably Tengan can't just steal it.

And yeah Tengan was fucked if Ryota got killed during the game, but Tengan wasn't planning for Ryota to be there in the first place (and was visibly shaken when he saw Ryota was there).

There's no way the Future Foundation wouldn't have access to someone who could hack his phone. Hell, they may have even provided his phone. He's an animator, not a programmer.

I'll agree that he just winged it for handling Ryota being there, though.

If you need a second story in a different piece of media to try and justify your characters stupidity and you still make him look like an idiot, you went wrong somewhere in your writing.

Ryota wasn't supposed to be there. He was supposed to watch the killing game or hear about it, but Tengan didn't count on him actually showing up. It's why Ryota was late and running to the meeting.

That said, the rest of Tengan's plan was still bonkers.

All I want to add is that I find the "complex motives" meme surrounding this guy really weird. I have my problems with ZTD but its mastermind had way more sensible and explained motives in the end

He didn't even say "my motives are complex" to say that they couldn't be understood. It was more to say "That's how I think, you don't have to agree with me but that's how it is."

For me, I reference the meme freely because I just feel it fits better with Tengan than with the original game it came from. It's not so much that i think he's comparable to ZTD, but that he completely outclasses ZTD when it comes to nonsensical motives.

The only times I've seen dumber masterminds than in Danganronpa games is in parodies or shows with silly villains where the whole point is how bad their plans are.

Warning: C O M P L E X M O T I V E S ahead.

I think it applies for every mastermind because I feel Danganronpa doesn't have very good villains, but Dangling grandpa really isn't too bad a character and pretty cool if he wasn't the mastermind. But of course, he is, and he suffers for it tremendously. It shouldn't even be that hard to make a bumblng but badass grandpa character in an anime. He's nothing deep or engaging, but I take what I can get. He got a huge claim to fame by beating the shit out of Juzo. There are just…so so so many things wrong with the whole mastermind thing. He's not a good mastermind, but I don't feel Danganronpa has ever had a satisfying mastermind.

Protip, writers. It's not satisfying or good to foreshadow who the mastermind is by having Kyoko, the ultimate detective immediately suspicious of Tengan. I get that she would be capable of doing that, but it'd be better if we can just follow along with her detective work instead of just having the detective immediately point out the bad guy in a very early episode, like the second or third.

Why would you even bother including Ryota in the game? I know people try to excuse it by saying he'd be too suspicious if he wasn't present in the killing game and wasn't included but…if you have a goddamn brainwashing device, who cares?

On this same note, including him and then giving him a bracelet that prevents him from using his talent makes it where he's even less likely to use the anime like you want him to. I know that it wasn't planned and that most theorize this bracelet was intended for Hagakure, but…previous point again. If you have a brainwashing device, it doesn't matter If people catch on or find you suspicious since you can just control them. Why even bother killing these people? Even if there are defectors in the group…you can brainwash them all at once. There was a scene right in the first episode where they had the perfect screen to hit everyone all at once. You also have to just hope Ryota never gets killed at any point in the game knowing that he has no combat skills or ways to defend himself.

This is a scenario that works against Danganronpa because of the sci-fi angle it has. I absolutely cannot buy that Tengan has to get Ryota to play the video from his phone. This universe, specifically the future foundation, has a virtual reality simulator, combat devices to battle advanced robots, this elaborate, futuristic building, and so many amazing marvels of technology. I can't imagine they have all this stuff, but they can't get a video file off of a cell phone, even if it's password locked. There's no reason for Tengan to have to manipulate Ryota into using the video file, especially if he just so easily...managed to have it ready to send to a mainframe and broadcast to the whole world. inb4 old people and technology joke

If the killing game wasn't being broadcasted to anyone, how did you expect Ryota to see it? If you want to say he sent the information to his phone, why not just do that right away instead of going about it in this drawn out fashion?

Why do you bother making Munakata go crazy on a killing spree by having the misleading wording on the traitor? Sure hope he never runs into Ryota at any point in the game.

Why do you give yourself a forbidden action that's essentially a truth serum? If at any point someone asks you anything significant to your plan, you're screwed.

Why bother setting the killing game underwater? Why do you have the brilliant idea of leaving the means of shutting down the killing game in the whole building? The power supplies are hidden behind like a bookcase and a hidden door. That's it. You'd think he'd make one of the rules entering the room or shutting off the power supply. Wouldn't that work better for the Juzo sacrifice scene, like he goes over and enters the room knowing it'll kill him to save the day? Or maybe you have a it where the power supply is designed to electrocute you and he toughs it out since Juzo could still just cut his hand off and then go in.

Why are you the mastermind to begin with? We see he obtained the brainwashing anime, so if he wasn't brainwashed, we have no idea why he thought any of this was a good idea. If he was brainwashed, then it's even more ridiculous because it would explain his actions, but makes him seem incredibly dumb if he just watched the anime knowing exactly what it would do.

They pretty much wanted to make a mastermind that died partway through the killing game, and boy did it bomb. I don't really feel Danganronpa has ever had a thoroughly satisfying mastermind, and at this rate, I don't see them pulling it off yet. Tengan probably would have been more of a hit if they didn't make him the one behind everything. Not only does it make no sense, but they hint at it way too blatantly with things like Kyoko's suspicion, the fact that a lie detector scene in these kinds of things is always a giant red flag, and so much more.

Your NG Code point is something I didn't think of.

Muahahahaha, my despair plan for the Final Killing game is going along perfectly!

Hey Tengan are you a bad guy

Shit.

Nah, more like people are dying and someone will be ranting 'what kind of psycho would put us in this killing game?' and thus saving the day.

I think it applies for every mastermind because I feel Danganronpa doesn't have very good villains

I will argue that Monaca was a great villain in Despair Girls, though she was helped by it not being a secret and so we got to see a lot more of her actually playing the villain. I pretend her bits in DR3 didn't happen.

I wouldn't personally call her great, but I do think she's the strongest of the villains. That's only because I think the others are completely terrible though.

For the record, Tengan is that dumb. The Danganronpa Gaiden Manga (which is canon) heavily implies that he was brainwashed by the video. It does explain his actions, but it makes him seem like a dumbass for watching it in the first place.

Right, but either way it's stupid. His actions don't make sense if he wasn't brainwashed, and if he was (which you confirm here) then he's an even bigger idiot for just watching the video after literally being told what was on it and what it'd do.

I think it applies for every mastermind because I feel Danganronpa doesn't have very good villains,

V3 would have like to have a word with you

Same goes for V3, which recycled a heavy amount and brought in weak villains without addressing most of the weak points of the previous games.

How? seriously. They are the only mastermind in the series whose motives are not total bullshit and has an actual "argument" and an excuse to justify their actions.

A huge portion of the final twist was detecated to make them grey

I'll bring it up when we get to their weekly post since the focus of this week's section should be Tengan.

But in short, I thought V3 had a terrible mastermind, but it's not like I thought it was a downgrade from Junko because I thought Junko was pretty terrible too.

The main villain of v3 was pretty bad if im being honest. The weakest part of v3 for me

If it helps to explain anything about Tengan's bizarre actions in Future Arc,.

This right here is just one of the many reasons why Dangan Ronpa 3 sucks. The fact that you have to use a spin off manga to explain why your villain did what he did in the show (keeping in mind that the chapter that reveals this came out months after the series had already ended) is quite possibly the laziest and shoddiest writing I've ever encountered in any form of media.

complex motives

I feel like the only reason they made him the mastermind was for some kind of shock value. It didn't feel very thought out at all.

I have nothing to say except that he deserved to die in such a horrible manner.

What if Danganronpa 3 suddenly became Zero Time Dilemma?

Answer: It would be, and is, awful, and so is Tengan.

At least Zero's plan, as convoluted as it was, made sense for reaching his specific goal.

Everything about Tengan's is fucking braindead. If he hadn't gotten insanely lucky, his entire plan and goal would never work out.

Worst. Mastermind. Ever.

I strongly believe DR3 was a good anime up until Tengan's reveal. It had some pacing issues and stupid moments, but was still pretty solid. Things just didn't make sense after he was revealed. Why did he not want to eradicate despair? How is broadcasting a hope video any different from eradicating despair? Why does he need to host a killing game to get the video played? Why do they not want the video broadcast? Why are they happy that it was partially broadcast and eradicated despair? Everything literally falls apart

To play devil's advocate a little...

Why did he not want to eradicate despair?

He clearly did want to remove despair, but he believed that Munakata's eradication approach wasn't effective enough, or wasn't happening fast enough.

How is broadcasting a hope video any different from eradicating despair?

It's not a better option at all. That's the whole point, that's why he needed to be stopped.

Why does he need to host a killing game to get the video played?

Presumably to cause maximum emotional turmoil for Ryota. It does seem like way too much work though, there has to be an easier way haha

Why do they not want the video broadcast? Why are they happy that it was partially broadcast and eradicated despair?

I'm assuming by 'they' you mean Naegi and co? They didn't want it broadcast because the video would have essentially removed everyone's free will. It was brainwashing, exactly the same as what Junko did, only for hope rather than despair. Either way, it's taking away everybody's right to chose and make their own decisions and enforcing one person's will on all of them.

Tengan = ZTD's Delta

and's that all I have to say

According to the wiki, Killer Killer revealed that he was brainwashed by despair video which makes him somehow even more stupid.

Tengan has always confused me, so if anyone wants to clarify I'd be grateful

In 3, it seemed as if he was a regular guy who thought the answer to despair was to brainwash everyone into hope. Which is dumb but okay. But then in the Killer Killer spin off, it's said that he watched the despair video, gave into despair, and perhaps even joined ultimate despair?? So if he was engulfed in despair, why did he want to brainwash the world into hope??

When I saw him I had a sudden flashback of that old guy (just searched, his name is Bang) who also fights in One Punch Man, so when they made action scenes with Tengan I kinda... fanboyed a bit (I know that Mirai-hen was weird for people cuz apparently they didn't like the whole thing of everyone seeming like fighters, but I didn't mind it, since they revealed as a talk show that this part of the anime would be more action-oriented with more suspense, even though they said they would keep some suspense, though we all know they botched that part.). I guess it's at least a good thing that it wasn't Bang's seiyuu here.

Yeah I realize I ain't telling much, but what else is there to add, seriously ? I mean, according to the profiles in the Blu-Ray, if we go by this translation, even the goddamn creator has his reservations on his big bad. At least we got a good abundance of memes.

oh shit Hinata is up next

Perhaps the script was rewritten like halfway through if that's the case then. I heard that Monaka was supposed to have a bigger role to play in the anime than usual so maybe that has something to do but when her VA dropped out changes had to be made and I guess Tengan being the MM ended being one of them.

Her VA said that ? May I ask where ? (just being curious, haha xD)

Yeah, they seemed to have a lot of ideas that in the end it just seems to end in a dispatched mess, which is again the fault of apparently starting to write their script by starting by the end of the story then just rushed with all their ideas quickly. That mostly was how I've seen it.

Character Discussion #52 - Hajime Hinata (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Never forget

Bigger and higher quality for your viewing pleasure.

Is there some meme about this guy that i missed ?

Hinata drinking orange juice out of a wine glass was a pretty big meme back in the glory days when all we had was a Something Awful let's play as far as translations go. It's died down since then I think.

I will always be amazed by the ability to create meme from the most simple details.

And we haven't even touched on 'Whoa!!' or two-zippered asshole shoes!

Don't forget the air guitar sprite

JUNKOS

I love him in DR2 but I really dislike him in DR3. I had the impression he wasn't the same character.

He literally wasn't the same character though, right? DR2 is FF's attempt at rebuilding the character we saw in DR3.

I...don't know where you're getting at? Hinata in DR2 is just mindwiped DR3 Hinata under the impression that he actually has a talent. The original goal of the FF (or, well, Naegi's crew) was to just overwrite the memories of the school life and their despair in order to somehow "cure" them of their terrorism.

I mean, wasn't he supposed to be the same?

A point that I don't see brought up much is that I really hate the fact that Hajime got to keep all of his OP Izuru powers while still being Hajime Hinata in Hope Arc. It goes directly against the message in DR2 about believing in yourself and not valuing talent. Hajime was desperate to find something that he could be proud of in himself, so he decided to erase his entire identity just to become something he idolized: someone with talent. The repercussions of this decision was horrendous and Hajime thankfully learned this by the end of DR2 that he needs to be content and happy with who he is. It's what makes the line, "I am going to live as Hajime Hinata" all the more powerful after he finished his arc by the end of the game. Having Hajime be turned into this heterochromia Gary Stu is a huge insult to his development.

What can we say? Danganronpa 3 everybody.

Hajime is already covered enough, so I'll talk about Izuru

I have to say that I really don't get the love. He has no personality and is pretty much a Villain Sue. He literally just stands around most of the time and says "tsumaranai"

I know I'm simplifying things but there really isn't that much to chew on. Writing a character who's literally brilliant at everything is a near impossible task, and they missed the mark

I think he could be easily improved too. Draw some clear boundaries on what he can and can't do. Give him some flaws. Give him goals and a purpose. Make me afraid of him and what Hajime's become

He's a character I feel that works better when he's not center stage. He was meant to be a character that Hajime has a terrifying realization about since it's supposed to be the big "HOLY SHIT THAT'S ME?" thing that happens at the end. Even that felt kinda much in DR 2 because I think them being terrorists in the real world already worked well enough without needing to create a "climax" scene for Hajime.

As a character actually doing things and interacting with people, he's beyond boring and I don't think an intentionally overpowered character is fundamentally a bad thing, it doesn't work well to have them just actually doing things in the universe. He's better as a background character, and a lot of it comes back to DR3 (and honestly DR 2 really) trying to bite off more than it could chew.

Right, I was fine with him in DR2 for how he was. It was bringing the focus to him as a character where he fell apart

Izuru was never actually a villain. He was a force of nature, and accidentally turned out to be equally uncaring. That he existed was how the Tragedy kicked off; looking back, Izuru didn't do a single damn thing. All the power in the world, and literally zero motivation. It wasn't until the Neo World Program that he had a reason to act, and that was only because he could push the moral battle onto his human side, to see if Hajime gave enough of a shit.

It must be because he loves memes

The problem with Izuru is how just by his concept he was supposed to come off as 'god on earth' with the voice affect of a serial killer. Having any sort of humanity to him defeats his purpose but it also just makes him boring since he has no drive to do anything.

I'd say that being detached to pretty much everything except acquiring more talents is a huge flaw.

It doesn't mean anything though

Heroes and villains have flaws. Heroes overcome them, villains reinvest in them. Izuru's "flaw" means nothing to him or the narrative, so it isn't really a flaw

But Izuru is neither hero, nor villain. Izuru is Izuru. He's the truest of true neutral.

I think you missed the point of who Izuru was supposed to be by implying he was a villain.

He doesn't overcome his flaws, and he doesn't reinvest in them. His flaws don't have any impact on the narrative so like I said they're pointless and not really flaws at all. Him being a completely neutral bystander makes him even more pointless of a character

Plus he literally helped Junko end the world, and stood by her as he watched it burn and let countless people die. Intentions or not, I find it hard to say he's not conventionally evil

He helped ruin the world but he also helped to save it later on.

Izuru is an interesting character (at least for me) because our first impression of him is that he is a despair obsessed freak due to what Junko tells us about him, however part of that is clearly lie going by DR0 alone, there being obvious that Izuru did not kill the entire student council as Junko claimed in DR2.

DR3 then shows us that he wasn't actively invested in despair, he merely followed Junko because she provided him with something he could not predict. After Chiaki also provided him with emotions he did not know he could feel, he decides to put Chiaki's hope and Junko's despair in a fight again in order to see who'd come out on top.

As a result of the event l, I'd say he does overcome his flaws by kind of "merging" with Hajime and choosing to live on as him. I'm not necessarily a fan of his "Gary Stu" talent but I appreciate how DR2 told us the wrong idea of him just for the series to reveal the truth later on.

That's fair I guess. He just really didn't work for me and felt like an unnecessary accessory to the story. It doesn't help that I have problems with DR3 Chiaki as well so her acting as a motivator was pretty meh for me

DR3 Hajime wasn't really that good. His decisions made no sense. He had basically every major person in his life from Hope's peak say it was a bad idea to do the kamukura project but he does it anyway.

Nice one

Of course it made no sense, but he just wasnt happy with his life as it was. How many people kill themselves over depression even though it is generally "a bad idea"? In the same sense, he saw an opportunity to "improve" his life and took it. Stupid? Yeah. But I didnt find the decision hard to believe, I can easily see someone do that

That wasnt a dr3 thing though, since he had already made the choice when they wrote dr2 unless they were just winging it in which case you still cant blame dr3 because it predates even dr2

Seems like they should have written Dr3 in a way were the decision made scene then.

[S]Discuss Izuru Kamukura here as well, as DR3's the first time we've gotten an extended look at the character!

I actually like Izuru more than I like Hajime, which makes me laugh given that Izuru's character is literally "I have no personality". Sorry, Hajime.

But his personification as a literally deus ex machina who just can't be fucked to care about the world he's supposed to save is oddly compelling to me. He's not exactly the deepest character, but he gives me a vague Doctor Manhattan vibe (from Watchmen).

He doesn't exactly fall to despair over the course of DR3, which interestingly doesn't contradict anything in other sources: even Danganronpa/Zero alludes to Izuru not actually being responsible for the First Killing Game (which DR3 confirms). There's not even any actual proof that he did a single relevant thing during the Tragedy itself, nor would he have to: the "legend" of Izuru Kamukura would do the work anyway. He just seems to watch.

I didn't love how Chiaki's death pulled a tear to his eye, but I can get past it: it wasn't his tear. Hajime managed to sneak one out, and Izuru was only concerned with how... unexpected that was. It sets up the conflict in his head, to let things happen and watch, to see whether or not despair or hope was stronger in the end. And may serve as the motivation for why he seemed to want a "grudge match" against Junko in the Neo World Program. Not the best way to go about that, but I can accept it.

He's not exactly the deepest character, but he gives me a vague Doctor Manhattan vibe (from Watchmen).

Heh, I'm glad someone else made that connection! It also lines up with how he could possibly have done something during the first killing game but didn't and just as how Dr. Manhattan was inspired to start a new world because of the implausibility of Laurie's birth (And hell, even the birth of anyone itself) perhaps his test was spurred on by the impossibility of the guy who managed to graze his cheek and also Chiaki's hope that brought tears to his eyes. Both were absolutely impossible in a sense and both stemmed from abject despair and unwavering hope, in that sense Izuru becomes more interesting in wanting to replicate these things he observed but couldn't explain, huh?

Compare him to Makoto. It's clear they wanted to go into a different direction with how the protagonist acts.

Personally i liked Hajime more as a protagonist than i did playing as Makoto.

Never been too fond of him as a protag (like him more than Naegi, though), but I really think that DR3 did him a great disservice, to be quite honest.

The anime heavily implied that he became Izuru to impress Chiaki (which flies in the face of the fact he did it to be someone who he can be proud of). While, Izuru crying over Chiaki's brutal death got to me, I kinda think it's beyond forced and only there for cheap Hinanami feels.

And why test 'hope' vs. 'despair' when as a very skilled analyst himself can see where it goes? Why was he in the program where he can be erased at any moment? The former WAS never his goal in DR0 and SDR2, as he was trying to get back at Junko and HPA for both using him.

Even more so when he got to KEEP his Izuru powers, despite vowing to reject that persona and live on as Hajime, just to conveniently handwave how the 77th class revived with zero blemishes. Kinda completely undermines SDR2's ending, doesn't it?

TL;DR: DR3 Despair Arc did little justice to him as a character and made him into nothing more than a protagonist for a mediocre Hinata x Chiaki fanfic.

i absolutely agree with your second paragraph. i think they did a lot wrong with chiaki's character by making her a sort of mary sue and having hajime's motivation revolve around her. she worked better when she takes a more passive role (twogami is already established to be the one to take leadership)

Even as someone who likes Hajime, his role as a pseudo-protagonist for an episode or two in DR3 was kind of unnecessary. Sure, it was kinda cool seeing him have a dynamic with Natsumi, but it didn't really add anything to his character. I guess it was a way to kill two birds with one stone, setting the tone for the anime and setting up his decision to become Izuru, but apart from giving Natsumi a little more characterization it wasn't needed...

I'd actually argue that DR3 Despair arc weakened his position in the decision to become Izuru. Before, all we knew is that he wanted talent and talent was given to him at the price of becoming Izuru, that he may or may not have been aware of when he took it, practically the definition of a Faustian deal with the devil... And given what we knew of Hajime, this would obviously be seen as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that he would probably jump on.

Now we know that he was apparently warned multiple times that it could go bad, and the way it's portrayed it seems like it was more of an emotional knee-jerk reaction to Juzo's put downs and the stressful situation of Twilight syndrome than a deliberate decision that went bad. It could easily be justified as him having insecurities about talent, which he does and we know he does, but it still doesn't feel good... Okay, I need to break down that "doesn't feel good" a little more, because this is a bit awkward from a writing perspective:

The conflict was probably written this way... Well, to make a conflict and pull intrigue, but it doesn't really mesh with the rest of the arc where the power of plot basically taunts the viewer by waving it in their face how easily things could've gone better if decisions had been made differently. It doesn't feel like Hajime was given a choice and chose poorly, it feels like he got shoved into a corner and was forced into something he had reservations with.

We also get more on Izuru, who I guess we'll talk about here since they're the same person. And we actually get more on him than we already had, so that's good...

For most of the story, he is extremely passive, doing absolutely nothing until someone comes at him directly. Hell, if Nagito hadn't turned to shoot him, it's likely that Izuru would've just stood there and watched Junko get her brains splattered on the wall. It is kind of amusing how Junko tries so hard to coax him onto her side and never truly seems to win him over.

Extreme passivity can be done in an interesting way if the person is divided on an issue or literally has no stakes in the things happening before them. Izuru having absolutely no stakes in anything happening, even people being killed in front of him, makes sense... If they wanted to do the "Izuru has no personality" thing. However, they probably shouldn't have done that, given that Izuru has canonically done things in the past and needs to have motivation to do them.

He does have a reaction to Chiaki dying in front of him, though it's not clear whether it's some latent memory from Hajime or that Izuru himself has a soft spot for her because ultimate waifu or whatever. After Chiaki's death, he actually starts doing things and making plans, and Junko seems to be quite accommodating for him. One wonders what would've happened if he had decided to be more active from the start, as things almost certainly would've gone differently.

It also explains why he sets up the Neo world program killing game, though it's not a very good reason imo. Obviously he needs to set up the killing game because that's canonically what happened, but the whole "Hope vs Despair" dynamic already feels like a drag on the story and pushing it even more seems like a mistake.

Unfortunately, I can't really get enough of a bead on his personality to say what a good, in-character reason would be, so I apologize to any writers looking to put an Izuru-like character in their own work. Just let it be a lesson in what not to do: Don't write yourself into a corner by making a character with no motivations when they are already established as a major player in the plot.

Also, memes.

the way it's portrayed it seems like it was more of an emotional knee-jerk reaction to Juzo's put downs and the stressful situation of Twilight syndrome than a deliberate decision that went bad.

If the anime weren't so allergic to giving us backstory we should already know I think it would have been more effective for them to show us that flashback of Hajime at his old school again where the other students are talking behind his back. The anime did some things to establish the talent-obsessed society like Juzo's attitude towards Hajime and Ruruka's inability to comprehend that she is worth more than her talent alone, but because Hajime's focus was mostly on his relationship with Chiaki "you can do anything" Nanami maybe some of that social pressure he was under that made him even consider the operation was missed out on.

it's likely that Izuru would've just stood there and watched Junko get her brains splattered on the wall.

That Nagito noticed him at all is what Izuru did to prevent Junko from getting shot. He'd been watching for a while. He was never fully invested on her side but his slight intrigue in what she could do was enough for him to tip the scales in her favor that one time.

It also explains why he sets up the Neo world program killing game, though it's not a very good reason imo

I really didn't like how they made his motivation some hope vs despair thing inspired by Chiaki when we got straight from his own mouth in sdr2 that his purpose for the game was to "use that that person just as they used me in the past". He had an actual motive but they didn't expand on that, instead making up their own reason that has plot holes: he asks Junko to erase his memory of the 77th class (as well as their memories of him to correct the continuity error of him meeting Nagito), so he couldn't have a motive related to Chiaki at all.

we got straight from his own mouth in sdr2 that his purpose for the game was to "use that that person just as they used me in the past"

Man, I completely forgot about that. That Izuru sounds way cooler than the one we got...

Given what we knew at the time it seemed like he was pissed about being framed for the student council killing, but the anime decided he didn't really care or was even impressed by it since he wasn't expecting to actually get hurt. Not wanting to be used is a better motive than 'a cute girl dying made me cry'

I mean, I don't REALLY have a lot to say about Hinata so I'll probably just move on to Kamukura.

Anyway, Kamukura really only works as a plot device in the story and I can't believe DR3 actually tried to make a piss-poor attempt to humanize him. I mean, granted, a lot of it had to do with him still being Hinata deep down inside, but oh my god, the waifu tears just struck me as dumb. I don't care. I really don't.

Besides, even if we were to take Kamukura as a completely separate entity, there's really little room to work with other than his relationship with Junko, but given the whole point of him is that he's a brick who finds no meaning in anything, then what are you going to do with that? I'm also not really helping myself by not really being a fan of the whole "stone cold man learns how to love" trope, and that's something I see a LOT in fanwork of him, whether it be ala manic pixie dream girl Nanami cheering him up, or with just be the author's wish fulfillment (Which isn't necessarily bad. Fanfic and art are supposed to be self-indulgent, but you get the point that it's not canon) with Komaeda, Junko, or like...Hinata himself.

I haven't seen the anime and it's been a while since I played the game. Currently replaying D2 and is up to the second chapter, so that'll reflect my current opinion on him.

I'm mostly neutral towards Hajime. He's my least favorite protagonist, but I don't dislike him. He's one of those characters I appreciate in design, I like what the creators were going for, but on a personal note it's not my taste.

Anyway. What makes Hajime is contrast. This is a character that on his own isn't all that interesting, but when put in contrast to Makoto and Nagito he gains meaning. Due to his design and role people are automatically going to compare him to Makoto and expect the same things out of him, and Hajime just loves proving you wrong. He's more independent, selfish, suspicious and even a bit of an asshole, making him view everything from a different perspective. It's refreshing to see him call out people (even when it's just his thoughts) and sometimes even being mean. These are all traits I personally dislike, and I definitely don't like him as much as Makoto and Shuichi. However I love how it makes you experience the Danganronpa differently. I'm so happy the developers tried something new instead of trying to create Makoto 2.0.

Another thing I like is his story arc. You really feel like you don't belong with everyone else, and I think most people can relate to his inferiority complex. It also served as a nice deconstruction of the previous game's themes. Deconstruction might be the core of his entire character.

As for Izuru. I don't care about him as a character, but I like him as a concept. I think it added some necessary weight to Hajime, but at the same time I get the feeling it could've been handled better.

So yeah. I like the concept of Hajime, and I think he's interesting enough to be a main protagonist. But personally he's not my type. I also wish he didn't turn into another Ultimate Hope, instead becoming something else or nothing at all. And from what I've heard he regains all his super-talents in D3, which does not bode well for my opinion on him... poor guy.

Probably my least favorite of the 4 protagonist's, I liked his whole idea of a character with no ultimate competing with ultimates in trials and being arguably the most important to solving almost all the cases ( mainly bc it's the player character, but still character nonetheless)

At this point he was contender for my favorite protagonist bc what he represented, hard work can compete with Raw talent.

Then the Kamakura bs happened. Basically took all this development and threw it out the window and made him a ultimate everything pseudo god.

I'm stepping back onto a bear trap here, as this netted me plenty of downvotes and pushback last time, but I really don't like Hajime. Not even in DR 2.

I do prefer Makoto's personality (all 5 mg of it) to Hajime's, but that's not saying much because I don't like Makoto either. I also felt Makoto was better at the end of DR 2 than he was in most of DR 1. I think Hajime's fundamental character works, and in general, I really thought Danganronpa would be much better if and when it starts to dive into the commentary about a talent obsessed society, so having a character so desperate to be at HPA they joined through the reserve course. The two main things I don't care for about Hajime are his personality and the resolution of his character and where it's continued on in DR3.

Some of the common reasons people prefer Hajime over Makoto is that Hajime is smarter than Makoto, he doesn't just put up with peoples shit like makoto, and they do more with his character.

On the first front, I feel that part of the issue is DR 1 having paper thin mysteries. DR 2's are certainly better, but Makoto wasn't dependent on Byakuya and Kyoko. I'll explain in more detail when we get t Makoto's post though, as this should focus on Hajime.

Just going back on the DR 2 cases:

Chapter 1: Hajime is helped and led along by Nagito, who outright explains what a lot of the evidence implies since he's the one who set it up. I cover in Nagito's post that he's acting as a moderator and wants to be sure both sides, the killer and everyone else, have fair odds.

Chapter 2: Chiaki assists him through the game and Nagito brings Hajime a bunch of evidence with the girls, footprints, and gummies along with some explanation and hinting at things with the body discovery announcement for the group.

Chapter 3: In this trial, Nagito helps him along whenever Hajime gets stuck. The clue where Nagito intentionally brings up the statement "Ibuki didn't commit suicide" again to tip Hajime off about the footprints is his biggest point.

Chapter 4: Hajime copies Nagito word for word and just repeats what he says a few times in this trial. Even Nagito's closing argument matches the same.

Case 5 does have Hajime participating more since he doesn't have Nagito, but I do get tired of people acting like Hajime was miles ahead of the curve when he would very consistently receive assistance from other characters, while Makoto on the other hand has a point where he helps Byakuya (and isn't dependent on him) but seems to get more shit from the fanbase.

Speaking of taking shit, that's the other thing. "Hajime doesn't take people's shit! He's not like Makoto, who even hung out with a serial killer and let people insult him!" Hajime does put up with quite a bit, and it's a pretty common bit to do with a straightman character. Plus, Hajime quite frequently just takes shit from characters without saying or doing it in the exact same manner as Makoto, most notably with characters like Hiyoko and Akane in their free time events.

I also think Hajime's just kind of a dick at times, and it doesn't really add much to his character or anything, and instead it just makes him feel needlessly dickish at times.

Chapter 1's investigation has Hajime respond to Nagito thinking with "well, it's not like I really care" in response to Nagito's thoughts.

Chapter 2's investigation has a scene where Sonia explains that the mask is a common element suggesting there could be a Serial Killer involved in the murder. Hajime's response? "This is stupid...Serial Killer, my ass...The killer just used it to cover their face." Keep in mind he doesn't think this, he says it outright.

There's the entirety of Trial 3 after revealing the culprit where he gets surprised that everyone is ganging up on him and not believing it's Mikan when he bluntly and tactlessly just says she's the killer repeatedly and goes on with his "is that really possible" angle.

You've got things he says in several of the free time events, but I think the winner is Kazuichi's free time events after Kazuichi brought up something about his appearance. "If you overcome your motion sickness, I can totally imagine you riding a motorcycle with a girl...You'd probably hang out with a bunch of delinquents and get into all kinds of trouble, too."

I wasn't really wowed by Hajime's presentation in DR3, and I don't really feel we had to give him as much focus as he got. One of the biggest things I don't like about the anime is how so much of it is the character's reactions relative to Chiaki. Like it's one thing to do the brainwashing twist, but they didn't very specifically have to tie every DR2 class member's fall to having Chiaki being the breaking point. They didn't need to tie Hajime's character relative to Chiaki, like how Izuru is brought to tears at her death.

I wasn't really a big fan of the "let's inject Hajime wherever we can" thing either, like showing completely different events of the Twilight Syndrome murder case. I'm not saying Monokuma never lies, but it's more weak writing than anything if you can't be consistent characters being shown to make an event work.

All in all, I always considered Hajime a middle of the road character. I think his general character arc does work better than Makoto's, but while I don't really like any of the main game protagonists, I don't think there's a huge gap in character, although I do vastly prefer both Hajime and Makoto to Shuichi.

One thing I will say I liked is that in the prologue of the game, Hajime was set up to be very panicky to establish what a good leader the ultimate impostor was. Hajime suggests a bunch of things to escape the island and says there's no reason to follow Monomi's rules, but the ultimate impostor shot them down, showing he not only has been thinking of how to escape, but can accurately see down the road what problems could arise. More on that in the UI's profile though. They hint at the idea that Hajime is not one able to make tough choices. He panics more than anyone in the beginning. He's the one who makes a conscious choice to decide to starve to death in the funhouse, and so on. It all leads up to "I can't choose" in chapter 6.

I can understand that there's not going to be much on his character in every chapter given that he's someone who survives, but the game dominates the presence of Nagito so much that you're thinking why aren't you playing as him? Chapter 4's trial is a prime example. Nagito pretty much carries the team, which makes sense in that context, but Hajime just copies pretty much everything he says and doesn't really need to be in that trial. He even says it like he's the one deducing things, but really, he's just copying Nagito.

This is different from the Kyoko/Makoto teamup we had. Comparing trial 4 of the first game, Makoto is the one driving the discussion while Kyoko is just doing more fact checking and she jumps in every now and then based on what others are saying.

With Hajime, he seems like he's getting pushed out as the protagonist at times and then gets an arc more than halfway through the game that even then doesn't get much focus until the last chapter, so he just seems to be in an awkward position. I feel like in general, Danganronpa has trouble knowing what it wants to do with characters that last through most of the game but have a lot of central focus, so they just feel weirdly stagnant.

I don't hate Hajime, but his role as being revealed as the mastermind and Izuru Kamukura didn't really set him leaps and bounds above Makoto for me. They're both at least better than Shuichi, and the way the characters are handled really shows the progression the series had with handling how the women.

People still shipped Makoto/Kyoko as far back as DR 1, but the game didn't really emphasize much element of romance between the two and instead was just building trust between two people. They definitely get shipped, but the game itself didn't focus very heavily on a romantic aspect between the two, and it felt more like their individual characters were playing off of each other instead of being springboards for the other.

DR 2 took it a little further since the romantic part of Hajime liking Chiaki is there, but she's still supportive of him and Hajime doesn't take her death well.

Dr 3 I think really is where it's noticeable because now we have Kyoko killed off (lol fakeout) solely to serve Makoto's character and create contrast with Munakata for a showdown that went nowhere. Hajime's character was also much more closely tied t Chiaki, as there's more emphasis on their relationship in DR 3 t the point where it's the defining moment and now confirmed to be his motivation behind launching the events of DR 2 into motion. I don't think romance is fundamentally bad, but it is tricky to lose a lot of nuances to a character's personality when you boil it down to just romance. Worse is when you have a solid character who exists solely as a springboard for another character, and it ends up feeling really unsatisfying, especially when these characters are largely quite samey.

That's also one of the issues I have with Shuichi's character using Kaede as a springboard for the game instead of just doing Kaede justice.

Although I don't care about Chiaki in the slightest, I can at least appreciate that Hajime's character doesn't rely on using Chiaki's death as a springboard in DR 2. I feel that's a bit less the case in DR 3. I get why I like him and don't even think he's a bad character, but he just didn't stick that well with me, but then again, the protagonists I think are generally underwhelming.

I'll save it more for Makoto and Shuichi, but I'm not the biggest fan of how the games progressively let the protagonist get away more and more with Being able to avoid suspicion.

I pretty much agree with your overall conclusion, though there's a few specific points I'd disagree with. I don't love Hajime either, though I think he bugs me less than he bugs you.

The one concession I'll give to Hajime being a bit of a dick/being useless is that he's not an Ultimate. He was the kind of person who was willing to pay out the nose to just be associated with Hope's Peak by being in the Reserve course... that's not going to be the best kind of person. So while it still makes him kind of insufferable, at least it's consistent with his backstory.

The Twilight Imposter angle he sees in DR3 actually closed a loophole for me: how the fuck did Monokuma have access to all that information in SDR2? Some of it, none of the main three involved could have known. Now, we have an answer: because Hajime saw all that crap, including the side conversations. Some of his viewing angles are exact mirrors of the pictures we see in SDR2.

The one concession I'll give to Hajime being a bit of a dick/being useless is that he's not an Ultimate. He was the kind of person who was willing to pay out the nose to just be associated with Hope's Peak by being in the Reserve course... that's not going to be the best kind of person. So while it still makes him kind of insufferable, at least it's consistent with his backstory.

Also something interesting I noticed since I just restarted SDR2, is that Hinata seemed kinda polite at the very beginning when the Imposter telling him to come into the class, and then he has the following thoughts :

Wait, why am I being so polite ?

I know they're the SHSL, but they're still high schoolers like me...

That's right, first impressions are crucial in moments like this ! I need to act more confident !

That might be (and we ain't sure about that) something that indicates why he might be like that, on how he needs to be more on everyone else's level (also why he uses no honorifics in Japanese for the others or how he uses ore for himself, which can be considered as rude at times). Just saying why it might be this way, since I agree that you didn't need to have Hinata to be that rude to get his character across, so I'm not making excuses for him. His rudeness while understandable was kinda too off-the-line but I don't mind sometimes characters being assholes so it wasn't a turn-off to me, but I can get why it might be for people.

i appreciate hajime's flaws in that he HAS them. all of the main danganronpa protagonists (including komaru) are plagued with this kind of relentless insecurity about their normalcy that can quickly feel tedious and samey (and transparently exists to give them An Arc). hajime's at least manifests in a fairly weird and toxic way, which gives him a bit of character texture. it's a nice mirror to nagito, now that i think about it.

Yeah, his failures actually endear him to me to a degree. It's nice to play as someone who's kind of imperfect; it makes the Izuru Kamakura angle a bit more meaningful than it might have otherwise been.

right? makoto, komaru and shuichi all have arcs to effect of 'you should get some confidence,' and then they do. v3 ending spoilers hajime's story is less 'you should get more confidence because you are worthy of your destiny' and more 'the entire value system upon which you've predicated your hopes and dreams is a lie; you need to reevaluate everything about yourself,' which is far more harrowing and interesting. and it may be a reach, but i feel like that tension kind of expresses itself in these small moments where hajime, say, is a dick to sonia, because the other protags wouldn't be allowed those moments by virtue of the natures of their arcs. if that makes sense.

For me, I'm more bothered by the fact that the game spent an entire chapter suggesting this group of students was involved in the TS incident and then the series shows that it was all Hajime instead.

Narratively, if we're saying the NWP can construct an entire person from Hajime's memories, I don't see why it'd be a stretch to say Monokuma couldn't get the information from say, Fuyuhiko, Mahiru, Hiyoko, etc. He was able to get data like an actual screenshot from the game and a future foundation email from Makoto, so I don't really feel how Monokuma could even get that info was ever a problem. This was just a dressed up retcon.

The one concession I'll give to Hajime being a bit of a dick/being useless is that he's not an Ultimate. He was the kind of person who was willing to pay out the nose to just be associated with Hope's Peak by being in the Reserve course... that's not going to be the best kind of person. So while it still makes him kind of insufferable, at least it's consistent with his backstory.

It might be the case, but it's more the fact that the group as a whole is just pretty warm to Hajime even though he's an asshole. I don't mind when characters are jerks, but the narrative has to be consistent with it. It's the same issue with Hiyoko when everyone kind of just overlooks her bullying. Miu in V3 is a selfish, arrogant, and terrible person, but the group reacts appropriately to her behavior, while pretty much no one ever comments on say, Hajime being rude to Sonia.

Nobody is friends in V3, really. Whereas in SDR2, they're already established as a class. To contrast, Kazuichi also gets away with a lot of dumb shit in SDR2, though he occasionally gets nailed if he crosses the line. Hajime is a bit of a dick, but he rarely pushes it nearly as far as anybody else would. He's not even close to Miu's level. Also, being a dick to Nagito doesn't even register on anybody's radar. Everyone shits on Nagito, including Nagito.

You've got those examples of him being a little shit, but they're not how he is the majority of the time. So yeah, he gets a pass. Compare his mannerisms to, say, Fuyuhiko? Yeah, I'd call Hajime pretty easy to get along with, too.

As far as they knew in DR 2, they had essentially just met with the exception of Fuyuhiko/Peko. They didn't have their school memories at the time, so they might as well have been strangers.

Even if Hajime didn't do it as often, it's still not a normal reaction to just have someone say or do something incredibly rude to you and absolutely no one comments on it because that character is generally nice. "Where did that come from, Hajime? I'm just trying to help." "Maybe you should be a bit more open minded to Sonia's idea, Hajime."

Any of those lines would close the gap.

Also, being a dick to Nagito doesn't even register on anybody's radar. Everyone shits on Nagito, including Nagito.

Only after he was revealed to be crazy. This is well before Nagito says or does anything deserving of hostility, and Hajime at the time had no way of knowing anything that came up during the big reveal of the first trial.

It's still a different context than being thrown together with supposed strangers, though. They knew it was supposed to be a normal situation that went wrong, compared to "what the hell are we even all doing here?"

There are so many times characters are rude that don't get called out; I think it's nitpicking to point at a few of Hajime's lines for the exact same thing and call it somehow abnormal.

I'm not arguing that Hajime isn't a bit of a dick, like with what you're saying with Nagito. I'm just saying that it isn't shocking that nobody is calling him out for it, because he's way less of a dick than someone like Fuyuhiko is to everybody else (which also isn't called out often at all, and he's infinitely worse). Hell, the cast glosses over most of what Hiyoko says, and she's got "worst personality in Danganronpa" pretty much on lockdown.

That's fine and all, but I only say this more in the context of people singing praises left and right about Hajime or when people call him a sweetheart. I've seen it around long enough when it doesn't really match up that well in the game. It's also not just a few minor points, but his attitude in general, particularly toward the suspects, during the class trials that really just bugs me.

Ah, calling out the fandom for not calling him out is an entirely different beast.

I've noticed the fans of almost any character seem to go completely blind to any of the negative traits of that character, so I've just kind of accepted it (and tried my damnedest not to do it myself).

It's not exclusively the fandom though. Even in game his attitude toward the killers kind of annoys me. He's a complete dick in case 3 and then acts surprised when nobody is buying Mikan being the killer (even though a number of the points he's parroting apply to suspecting him as well), but nobody ever really comments on it or brings it up or even bothered trying to suspect him when he should have been the immediate suspect. Hajime really started the trend of the protagonist just being able to be wherever or do whatever and not ever be suspected even though they should absolutely be suspected.

Bleh, SRD2 Chapter 3 comes up a lot when people have issues with the games. The murder is a mess, the trial is a mess, the execution was terrible. I think I blotted most of it out of my mind, so I don't recall that Hajime was just as easily suspected. But I'd believe it without any hesitation.

whoops, seems like I got a bit late in writing this. IRL stuff and all

Seems that, mostly with a new game and all, and by looking at this thread, the Hinata Hype Train seems to have stopped for a bit, so I suggest we place our hats over our hearts and reflect in a moment of silence.

I'll mostly go over what we got from Hinata in DR3, since we all already know what happens in the second game, and I already sang my praises in some other comments in other threads.

When we go back to Hinata in Zetsubou-hen, he might sound a bit different from the one we got in the game, but for a good reason here. In the beginning of SDR2, Hinata was unaware of what his talent might be (which in turn gives the character a motivation through the story in supplement from "I need to escape"), but he still thought « I have one I just need to remember it and then I'll know why Hope's Peak chose me » which gave him the impression of being on everyone's else level and kinda explained his jerky behavior at times (using ore, and no suffixes like -san or -kun).

In DR3, a prequel, we find Hinata just getting into Hope's Peak as he always wished.... but in the Reserve Course. Here he already knows he has no talent and acts then in contrast due to the difference of context he's in (everyday high school life) compared to the game (a killing game on a tropical island). DR/0 and 2-6 offered a way more satisfying explanation than the anime on how the Academy just gave zero fucks about the Reserve Course and just thought of using them as lab rats, as such. The way the Reserve Course gets discriminated against the SHSL students can be seen like how Koizumi could just go to the Reserve Course building as she wanted and when Hinata tried to cross it to speak with her he just got his ass kicked and spat on him (tho our boy Juzo really crossed the line and then again nothing could stop him xD). There is also when Koizumi comes to see Sato you have all those blue people just watching her in disgust or something.

Hinata's profile sums up better the initial situation he's in with the Kamukura Project : 

A student who entered the prep school because he admired Kibougamine. Feeling as though his life as a talentless person was boring, he entered the school with a tuition exemption for meeting certain requirements. Bothered by the unambitious atmosphere of the prep school, he spends a lot of time alone.

That literally meant that he could make a cross on Hope's Peak if he just didn't accept the deal (and that's reasonable considering DR puts this school at the center of it all and as a goal for anyone to enter and such - and if you want, you can also expand on how, for a teenager living in Japan and the pressure the society puts on the individual, meaning that in here if you don't get into a good high school and college and stuff you're basically fucked.). People seem to criticize him on how stupid it was to just accept to sign up the Project when most people just told him to not do it (Nanami, Yukizome, even Tengan in a way), except that they just made him feel better atm with words. Contrasted with how harsh Hope's Peak environment was at the time (for example, Natsumi's entire situation) it's no wonder that almost nothing seems to have made Hinata feel better for himself.

That said, he meets Nanami which offers him a sort of temporary way out. She didn't care about whether there was talent or not in him, and as she herself seemed to despise her talent herself (until they just bungle the whole situation with the whole class rep plotpoint and make her go full Naegi, they start to hang out (and not just a few days, as the anime pinpoints as the fact that a few months passed between episodes 1 and 2 for example). For Nanami, she was happy to see another friend to hang out, and for Hinata, not only a way out of the pressure that the project gave him (especially as the deadline grew closer) and as such he felt more as an equal to Nanami, as a friend. Of course, the pacing is garbage so we could have more complexity to the relationship and have Hinata bond with other people like the Twilight Syndrome folks, but we had to make room for a shy moe boy with brainwashing and memes of course, along with the main villain of the series.

Most of it boils down to Hinata finally deciding to accept the Project since it's a situation of Doomed by Canon. That was where things got out of hand as people watching the anime just thought things and reduced/insulted Hinata's entire character and motivations to just « he joined the project cuz he loved that girl he barely spent time with playing video games », so I just wanna point a few things out :

When going to accept the project, Hinata thought of her as a « friend » above all.
The decision was already pending on him for a moment but the recent situation just kinda made the whole process go sooner than expected but regardless, even without all of these I don't have a single doubt in my mind that Hinata would've accepted the project no matter what.
Nanami is being « inserted » into Hinata just because he became Kamukura symbolizes that Hinata just accepted the project of erasing himself because of the girl he « loved » ? That's how we're going to go it seems, like apparently we can't have a guy thinking of his only friend before going on an operation. Who else would he have thought of then ? Don't even try to think of his own parents who signed him up for the project.
In the end, I feel that what we were given of Hinata in Zetsubou-hen was a kinda good add-on from what we already know. I don't feel the delivery in it was that good due to many issues like the Twilight Incident centering more onto him than the actual persons concerned, the relationship with him and Nanami is kinda underdeveloped and us needing to feel the gaps isn't good enough. That's not even going into how Shibou-hen just shatters the resolution and message of his arc by going into making him a literal plot device and changing his resolution from « you can live on as yourself and have worth even without talent » to « you can't be anything if you don't have talent », which feels pretty insulting.

Of course, Kodaka seems to not give a shit anymore, so my hopes that the trajectory of this arc gets rectified one day is rather small. Urgh. Like I'm still okay with what I said about Zetsubou-hen giving more intel and such, and I can easily live with it, but I could also do without since having more stuff on the SDR2 cast wasn't that necessary compared to what the series had to close up at this point.

about the Nanami thing, i don't have problems with this fact as i liked those scenes with Hajime and Chiaki, i think the problem for many Hajime fans is we all thought Hajime participated the Kamakura Project for himself, sure he wanted become a important part of society, but still in DR2 Chap.6 there was nothing to imply he wanted impress someone IIRC, sure even without Chaiki he would become Izuru anyway, but the fact they added those scene imply Chiaki had a part in his choise, and it's kinda a retcon IMO.

of course you are free to disagree.

and another thing, we know nothing about Hajime's parents, there is nothing to say they didn't love him, i'm sure they were probably horrible parents, but they are the "we want our son be successful no matter what" kind of parents, kinda like Morgan Fey from Ace Attorney

Okay, let's look back into the anime a bit, Despair 5 to be more precise :

I will live the life I want to lead. I want to become the protagonist of my own story. I will become a version of myself I can be proud of around Nanami.

A thing I brought up when discussing the relationship between Nanami and Hinata is that he mostly saw her like a way of escape the things he had going for during his time at Kibougamine (the Reserve Course, the pressure behind the decision of the project). Nanami being an SHSL, he admired her for having "talent" and most likely wanted to be an equal to her (thus why "I can be proud of that version of myself", if he gained talent), I think he always mostly saw his own interests on such things (and most of all that decision) above all things, so for me, because they added Nanami doesn't change or contradict much from Hinata's character IMO. That's mostly how I read it (and then there might be others mostly shippers who aren't in agreement of all this and wanted anything else than Nanami hanging around Hinata at all and mostly wished for like another certain white-haired dude to be with him, ignoring the fact that it wouldn't have been possible if Komaeda don't give a fuck for people who don't have any talent).

His parents were mostly aware of all the things that the Project would do (and Hinata himself as well), so that begs the question of why would they agree to these experiments on his son if they really wanted the best AND loved him. You wouldn't make a person you love go through any sort of insane thing like this when you are aware of all the consequences that could happen to him.

But then again as you said we don't have enough information on that, since the anime had an agenda to push that hard, which I found frustating since as a character, Hinata is the one we know the least about in the cast of the game he's in, so any complementary information on anything would've been welcome.

you know it's really unfair you pulled the "fujoshi" card, it's always the same story, everytime i see the Chiaki defense squad, there is always somebody who say "all Chiaki haters are komahina fans", i know many Chiaki dislikers (is that the right word?) who don't ship komahina, like myself!, evidently the Chiaki defense squad can't find other reasons about why somebody can dislike Chiaki.

And anyway Hajime has many intersting relationship in DR2 (specially in the FTEs) with other characters who aren't Chiaki and Nagito but still they weren't even considered because they had to make space for her.

I might be unfair, but that's how it seemed to me when it aired, instead of people looking at the bigger picture of it they just reduced Hinata's character and motivations around just small things. I don't just say "X character is disliked because ship" because that's a pity argument, it's mostly what I saw around when people brought such reason to why they didn't like this plot point.

Agreed completely on the other point though, I didn't feel Nanami and/or Zetsubou-hen to be THAT important in the end, but considering how they made the Twilight Syndrome close to the Reserve Course, there is no reason as to why they wouldn't make some more characters close to Hinata at this point, like Kuzuryuu or Koizumi, you could make great dynamics with that and have that affect Hinata in many ways.

His talent really isn't hope though...it's nothing, unless you mean post awakening in which case it's everything.

As a fanservice I did enjoy the scene of Izuru shooting Nagito and Nagito jizzing himself over it, but on a more objective level I would have rather had something that actually makes sense happen. The fans would have been happy as long as Nagito and Hajime got to talk at all, but we never really got that even with a whole OVA where that sort of thing could have happened.

On a positive side though Hajime being somewhat friends with Fuyuhiko's sister was pretty cute and potentially adds some more depth to his friendship with Fuyuhiko post series. So even though cutting out Mahiru-Hiyoko-Mikan-Ibuki's role in Twilight Syndrome's presentation sucked, it was a good addition to Hajime's character.

I loved Hajime in DR2, but DR3 really left a bad taste in my mouth. They really fucked up handling Hajime, Chiaki, and Junko's roles.

I don't understand why Hajime of all the protags was voiced by a female voice actor in Japanese

but they all are? I think that's more of a japanese trope, to give them a younger sounding voice.

I don't agree with giving any of the 3 a female/androgynous voice but Hajime being the least 'pretty' looking made it apply to him most

he has quite the chest on him though

I think I heard that NGE was such an influential anime that Shinji became the typical protagonist archtype. Normal sort of dude if insecure, short brown hair, voiced by a woman namely Megumi Ogata hello Makoto. Hajime couldn't be voiced by Megumi after she was just the last protagonist so that's probably where Nagito comes in: the white haired, doomed to die boy who is in love with the protagonist like Kaworu.

Character Discussion #53 - Ruruka Ando (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Kills Kizakura while trying to kill Kyoko Acts like a complete asshole towards Seiko beacuse she won't eat her candy, even when Seiko said she can't beacuse candy is bad for her health

Talk about a character that belongs on a cross.

No!! She's just insecure!!! She's really a good person and just misunderstood!!! /s

I can't tell if you're joking or not and that concerns me. I mean, there is no fucking middle ground when it fucking comes to Ando is there? She's either the fucking Antichrist or a poor misunderstood girl that deserved better. I mean, I can understand both sides, but it is so fucking annoying seeing people either put her on a pedestal or treat her like she's evil incarnate, a title that was only previously held by Junko before she came around.

Either way, I couldn't bring myself to actually watch DR3, so I kinda just have a middle ground on Ando. I am well aware of her bitchiness and think that she did some terrible stuff, but I can also understand her various insecurities and think her death was pretty fucking harsh, all things considered.

Alright, I swear the DR 3 writers just played Ace Attorney Investigations 2 before starting the project and said "hey, let's loosely take these characters and write them into DR3! We can get our talents here!"

AAI2 Spoilers

Poor poor Izayoi.

I'm not of the opinion that making a character morally gray automatically makes them better. Some characters are going to be poster boy heroes or villains, and that's fine. I think those can and are still great character archtypes.

I care more that a character is consistent with what the writer is trying to pull off, and if the writer isn't in control about when their character is right or wrong, what the audience should or should not sympathize with, or jut generally what they're portraying with their character, the story suffers tremendously.

Ruruka has the same kind of issue that Juzo has in that she's a total asshole, but they don't do a good job at covering why she's an asshole. She's not "tragic" either because they mishandle the very premise of the backstory. It's extra sad because I feel that Ruruka would be one of the best characters in DR 3 is they had just made a few small changes.

The setup and opening is great. Ruruka is being oddly aggressive toward Seiko and we see the two have history with each other. It's a great way to build up suspense and really get us more invested in what exactly happened. We see the two are on good terms as children, which is a good move because now we ask what happened to make them constantly fighting each other or having Ruruka accuse Seiko…but this is where things really fall apart.

They show Ruruka offering Seiko a piece of candy, but Seiko can't eat it due to her illness/medication. Alright. That one fact alone makes Ruruka's actions all seem absolutely ridiculous. If you just change this one circumstance pretty much everything wrong with her character can come together.

Maybe if you stick with the same illness dilemma, show scenes of Ruruka trying her hardest to make something that would both be suitable tastewise that Seiko can also enjoy, and then steadily she grows more and more frustrated, and you can cap it off with her shoving all the ingredients off the counter or something. She gets accepted into Hope's Peak for her amazing abilities and all the stuff she did make, but she sees those all as failures and can't acknowledge herself, develops an inferiority complex while at HPA, and then her relationship with Seiko is trying to do whatever she can to still keep her around because she feels like Seiko would just leave her at any minute if she has nothing good to "offer" to her while Seiko in her view has a comparatively better talent, does much better in school than her, and is set for success.

Having it as is with her constantly pushing Seiko into trying to eat something that will literally kill her eliminates any kind of trying to understand Ruruka. Obviously Ruruka isn't meant to be entirely sympathetic, but we still need a reasonable progression of how she got to this point, and it just has the effect of making her seem like a complete asshole if her friend has a disability that makes it where she can't do this thing.

Hell, make a love triangle involving Izayoi. Have Ruruka learn different pharmaceutical principles through Seiko and have that as the explanation as to why she can control people with her candy. Set it up where she ruined Seiko or maybe Seiko accidentally messed up something but Rururka felt it was intentional. Anything will do. Just saying a bombing misunderstanding happened that the school just overlooked because of reasons (that Izayoi somehow got expelled for even though he didn't even do anything, and there's no reason to falsely pin the blame on him even if you're a corrupt school authority) just didn't do it for me.

If we don't sufficiently build up the reason why she has so many trust issues, it won't work when you show the even less sympathetic moments with her, and while we're not meant to like her, we do still need to understand her.

It's frustrating because I still genuinely maintain that if you made a few small tweaks to her character, she'd be one of the most well written DR 3 characters in the cast…which doesn't say much considering how poorly written the anime was for the most part, but I'll take what I can get.

If we can sufficiently see why she doesn't trust people, then it'll help really further set the true sadness and selfishness of the situation when we see her kill Izayoi.

I think Seiko is a cool character and all, but this whole situation puts her completely in the right. I'm not of the opinion that morally gray characters are automatically better. My opinion is more nuanced than that. Ruruka's character falls apart because the reason of her initial frustration paints her as completely moronic and selfish at a moment where we're not supposed to see her as such yet. She can still ultimately be a horrible person killing and turning on her loved ones because of her own insecurity, but it doesn't work if that's the reason you give her for it.

Either make her an asshole and really take advantage of it, or change the circumstances if you want us to understand her more.

I couldn't agree more. I found it incredibly horrifying that Ruruka wanted recognition (for her sweets and by extension, her talent) more than she cared about her "best friend".

I like your idea about Ruruka having a slight change in her backstory with the addition of attempts (and failures) to cater to Seiko's dietary needs. Imagine a scene when Seiko, trusting the newly invented confection, becomes gravely ill after eating it? That would have really amped up both the emotional drama and given her voice actress even more opportunities to show what she's got. (I personally think Inori Mase did an excellent job portraying Ruruka and the depths of her emotions towards the other characters.)

I believe Seiko was by far the more sympathetic character, just by virtue of having done <i> nothing </i> to intentionally hurt Ruruka during their school days. It's an interesting take on disability/chronic health issues as well, with Ruruka not understanding the accommodations/limitations that Seiko always had to have in the back of her mind.

Ruruka was my favorite character from the cast going into the anime because I found her bitchy and manipulative attitude to be interesting, so I enjoyed her a lot in the first 4 episodes of the Future Arc. I enjoyed her dynamic with Seiko and Izayoi enough and found myself invested in their unhealthy relationship and how it started.

However, my opinion became to lessen a bit in episode 4 when it was revealed what was the fallout between the two. On one hand, Ruruka being an incredibly weak and self-doubting person did give her some depth that was explored decently enough in the following episodes. However, her reasoning for distrusting Seiko was incredibly dumb and just bad writing. I could get behind the idea of her constantly thinking up new solutions to Seiko's health problem with candy, with each failure frustrating her more and more and thinking lowly of her and her talent, but Ruruka constantly trying to make Seiko eat her candy, despite the fact that it could kill her(and let's not forget about that fact that this is the Ultimate Chemist we're talking about here so they probably know what they're dealing with) and getting pissed off about it is just nonsensical. It's frustrating because this little plot point really hurts the writing of her character and portrays her as a pathetic and ignorant bitch since the anime tries to make the viewer sympathize with her character in a couple moments. I wasn't bothered by this fact much back when the anime was airing, but looking back, I can understand why people started to dislike Ruruka by this episode. It weakens her characters as well as the Ruruka-Seiko rivalry by making it so black and white in who you are supposed to sympathize with.

Moving on, I was still interested in what the writers would do with her, but her character suffered a lot in Episode 8 and 9 of the Future Arc. I found her actions in the former episode to be yet again nonsensical. I don't know what Ruruka was thinking in trying to kill Kirigiri considering that someone as qualified as the Ultimate Detective would be a major asset to Ruruka's survival from the killing game. Her killing Izayoi, her lifelong boyfriend, was absolutely stupid. Izayoi has already been established as to being extremely obedient to her, so it's foolish for her to worry that he would go exit the arena at the cost of her life. Plus, it now leaves Ruruka defenseless because her boyfriend has saved her ass multiple times.

In the latter episode, Ruruka was killed off when she was about to develop. This is not only wasted potential to her character arc, but it's a huge injustice to the Class 76 trio as all of them die and are forgotten about by the survivors. This problem relates back to the issues with Ishimaru and Hiyoko's death as there is now no one to carry on their thoughts and wishes. It is ultimately a pointless plot that goes no where.

Ruruka has the potential to be a really strong and well written character(well, at least by the anime's standards), but her character suffered from a bunch of inconsistent writing and the writers simply not caring about her.

Izayoi really went above and beyond in his protection of Ruruka, both from a physical and defensive standpoint but also in shielding her emotionally from the actual consequences and negative emotions associated with her actions. I actually held more empathy for him than Ruruka, considering that he held such undying love and loyalty toward someone who ultimately couldn't return the trust she placed in him.

I'm actually quite curious now that I think about this... <I> The NG Codes for several characters had a significance to something that would personally inconvenience them, often because of their talent or personal relationships. </I> (The ultimate boxer couldn't throw a punch, Izayoi- boyfriend of the ultimate confectioner- couldn't put food in his mouth, Kirigiri shouldn't have been able to survive while Naegi lived, etc.) I understand that the cast was big in V3 and included characters we had just been introduced to, so not every Forbidden Action needed to be tailored to them to progress the story, but I think it was a nice touch for those this did apply to.

Hello, my name is Extremely Biased, and as the Number One Ruruka Defender and Apologist, I feel it is my solemn duty to convey Ruruka's character as I see it the best I can without going on for too long, while hopefully in the process being able to give people a more coherent understanding of her.

At her heart, Ruruka is a person who operates by a very self-serving logic, logic that can hardly be called logical at all. Because of the self-perceived mediocrity of her talent, she feels the need to have her, and her talent, constantly being validated. She has little self-esteem, and has this compulsive need to prove to others and herself that she's useful and valuable, even if that means damaging the most important relationships in her life in the process, even if people are literally incapable of doing so, such as in the case of Seiko. It ends in tragedy for her, her former friend, and her boyfriend. A misunderstanding regarding her and Seiko's friendship slowly poisoned and destroyed what started out as something genuine and sweet, whereas her inability to put her faith in others beyond what she can do for them convinces her to kill the most genuinely loyal person in her life simply because she couldn't provide for him, and wasn't able to emotionally handle even the slimmest chance of being betrayed. All this ends with her cruelly torturing and mutilating herself out of the intense self-loathing brought out by the despair video.

To sum up, Ruruka is a toxic, cold, self-serving person, someone not likely meant to be sympathized with, but perhaps pitied all the same. She's a pretty messed up person, no doubt, with a mindset that can't really be compromised or reasoned with and a broken understanding of how relationships work, and she only gets worse and worse as the killing game goes on, committing some pretty vile acts as a means of protecting herself. Extremely interesting setup and ideas here.

Which leads to problem #1. Very little of this is properly and explicitly defined. Most of what I just described needs to be understood using context, as well as visual and audio cues.

Which wouldn't be a problem in itself! It's great if a character's traits and personality are nuanced, but here it feels...out of place? Danganronpa isn't exactly known for subtlety, and most characters are pretty easy to understood because they pretty much tell us who they are, especially through the use of FTEs. So her of all people being one of the few characters this doesn't apply to makes it more likely that the writers forgot to tell us what exactly makes her tick. As a result, there are a number of misconceptions pertaining to her character, especially in regards to her relationships with Seiko and Izayoi, when there really shouldn't be.

Leading me to Point #2. The series doesn't really know how it wants us to feel about her. Her character is largely consistent from beginning to end, but it seems to me the writers couldn't really decide if they wanted us to sympathize with Ruruka, or think of her as a total villain. It has less to do with her actions specifically and really more of a matter of how certain frames look or how certain scenes are directed, but I suppose episode 5 and especially episode 8 of Future are offenders of this.

The flashback in episode 5 pertaining to their friendship, suggests to us that they both shared the blame for it all falling apart...when the scene does a terrible job at showing why that applies to Seiko. With how it's framed and what's being said, it doesn't seem to know whether it wants us to think it was Ruruka alone that ruined all of it, or whether they both played a part in their downfalls. It seems clear to me that the intent at least is to show that their lack of proper communication and honesty was the problem, and yet 95% of fans take Seiko's side without batting an eye. I don't know if part of the staff felt differently about the conflict than others working on it and that's how we got the mixed messaging, but clearly we have a problem. Honestly, this is a problem with Seiko's character as well, but we'll get to that later.

Izayoi's murder and the circumstances behind it, I have absolutely zero problem with it. What I have a problem with is afterward, almost feels like it was done just to put in a standalone mystery for Kyoko to investigate and solve...even though it felt like she had already figured that out for a while now, but I'll ignore that. Like the series forgot that it started out as a pair of murder mystery games and felt the need to force in something so she could have a badass moment. This of course portrays Ruruka as the evil culprit in the process, not helped by her sudden and panicky attempted murder of Kyoko a few minutes prior or the fact that she can brainwash people with her candies, which I honestly only think was put in there to have people questioning the nature of her relationship with Izayoi, which was absolutely fucking stupid and pointless.

Speaking of pointless, she dies! Yep, after all that interesting set-up, all that time spent on her and her sub-plot involving two other characters, she's unceremoniously killed and spared zero thoughts by the show or characters afterward, rendering all that time ultimately pointless overall.

I mean, this isn't even my bias talking at this point, you have all the reason in the world to have her be a survivor and deal with and come to terms with the fallout and repercussions of the terrible choices she's made throughout her life. But, screw an interesting and satisfying character arc, let's just kill off one more person for literally no reason whatsoever, and not even acknowledge that it happened.

So, we have a genuinely interesting character with unfortunately vague motivations that can be understood if you spend fucking weeks thinking on it like I have because I have a problem, frustratingly inconsistent with how the writers want us to feel about her, and ultimately regarded as disposable and meaningless, gutting what could have been a meaningful character arc in favor of unneeded foreshadowing. But, I still adore her character, even if it seemed like the writers didn't know what the hell they wanted to do with her. Or maybe they just didn't care. Like most of the rest of the anime.

But I suppose "disposable and meaningless" is the running theme with these new characters, so I guess I shouldn't be surprised that who I feel is the best of them wouldn't be any different in that regard. Wasted potential is a tragic thing. It's not often you get characters like this.

Why yes, I did have all this typed up beforehand because I had nothing else to do.

I knew I wasn't alone in this world thank you for this. Most people dislike her character because they don't understand how she felt I used to have low selfsteem and used to be just like her trying to prove to others that I was better than others and not really having anything to recognized for but I changed and that's why I wanted her character to survive she could have an awesome change but not forgetting her bad decisions instead trying to do better than her past self , also I think what she really need was some support that someone as naegi could have provided to her if they had met in other circumstances . As all characters in D3 she was a wasted potential with an unnecessary death still one of my favorites.

We want a Ruruka_thesis.PDF as big as with Sayaka. Only then we can accept her as a good character.

Thank you for this. I'm a huge Seiko fan, and even I think Ruruka gets way to much hate on this sub. She's a very interesting character.

Happy to be of service!

Quick meme for point 2: the show absolutely knew what it wanted to do with her, it wanted us to hate her, which is why they made her a despicable, selfish piece of shit. Anyone who thinks she was supposed to be some kind of poor innocent girl probably only does so because they relate to her shitty attitude and actions. Ruruka was made to be a piece of shit and antagonist to Seiko. Thats all

disagree. danganronpa always makes weird halfhearted swipes at making its despicable assholes 'sympathetic', i think because they think it's deep writing. anyway, i thought the example u/heavenspiercing
 gave of the seiko/ruruka pov ep was a good one. they're clearly attempting to give ruruka SOME kind of nuance there, even if it falls totally flat because she's a narcissist whose motives kind of make no sense.

ruruka is obviously meant to be a villain, yeah, but i can't think of any non-Big Bad villain we weren't supposed to have some sort of conflicted emotions for. in any case, OP acknowledges that she's an asshole a million times over so i'm not even sure where your 'poor innocent girl' thing is coming from.

I mean, even if that was the case (hint: it isn't), they did a pretty terrible job at that as well because at the end of the day, the point still stands that how her actions are framed and portayed are wildly inconsistent. The show absolutely did not know what to do with her, just as is the case with almost everything in Future Arc.

What are you even talking about dude? Almost everything she does from beginning to end is something shitty, threatening aoi and naegi in the first fucking episode to killing her own boyfriend because "muh insecurites" everything she does shows she's a piece of fucking trash and anyone who thinks "the writers didnt know wether they wanted her to be hated or sympathised clearly paid no attention to the show. Its the same as saying "well we don't know if they wanted junko to be the bad guy or not because we dont see her specifically kill anyone hurr"

threatening aoi and naegi in the first fucking episode

To be fair, so were half the people in the room. Naegi and the others were being suspected of treason.

killing her own boyfriend because "muh insecurities"

I mean she also didn't want to die. Same reason she tried to have Kyoko killed. Regardless of whether she's justified or not, everything she did in the killing game was done as a means of protecting herself, even if it was mostly her being rash or panicky. From what we see, she never goes out of her way to hurt or kill unless she thinks she's in danger or she's heavily suspicious of someone.

So like, I would never argue she's a good person, but comparing her to Junko who literally ended the world for fun seems a tad, eh, insincere.

Yeah everyone else was threatening them, because they were all assholes, that was the point.

The dude was her lap dog, she could have just told him but she killed him instead.

No matter what you say, everything she did was shitty, they knew makoto kyoko and aoi were good people because they tried to save the remnants, so why would they kill ruruka, even then if they did want to kill her they could have easily done it regardless of ng code. Just come to terms that the character is a piece of shit.

Yeah everyone else was threatening them, because they were all assholes, that was the point.

I suppose that includes Seiko as well.

The dude was her lap dog, she could have just told him but she killed him instead.

She did tell him, and she believed he would betray her because she couldn't provide for him anymore.

they knew makoto kyoko and aoi were good people because they tried to save the remnants

Um, what? You lost me, the remnants were psychopathic terrorists that destroyed the world, how does Naegi and the others saving them make them good people, especially in the eyes of an organization that's been personally fighting the remnants for over a year? As far as most of the FF is concerned, Makoto and his friends are criminals.

so why would they kill ruruka, even then if they did want to kill her they could have easily done it regardless of ng code.

Think of it this way. Her situation is the equivalent of someone about to pull a lever, not realizing it's connected to the electric collar around your neck. That's a rather frightening scenario.

If she couldn't bring herself to fully trust someone she actually cared about, she has even less reason to trust people who she either doesn't care about or outright dislikes.

Just come to terms that the character is a piece of shit.

Look, I'm not saying she's a good person, but fandom likes to demonize a character if they've brought harm to another character they like. Mondo gets the same treatment.

When i said everyone, it was obvious I meant everyone who was being an asshole, munakata, juzo, ruruka and edgeboy, Seiko didnt do anything.

Its her own fault for not being able to trust the dude thats been her footrest his whole life.

Any dumbass could have just killed the remnants, but they actively tried to save them and revert them to their normal selves, which was actively known to future foundation (although possibly only byakuya's branch since i cant remember al the details)

Do you mean the same way Kizakura couldnt open his hand or he'd die, yet still purposefully did it to save someones life because he's not an evil, selfish psychopath like ruruka? Trying to defend Ruruka will always leave you wrong, because the future foundation as a group were the antagonists, the mastermind was ff, the dudes beating hajime and naegi (while one was a fucking teen and the other was cuffed) were ff, the people trying to murder naegi for some dumbass hope world, the person trying to brainwash the planet was ff. Future Foundation as a whole were the antagonists and they gave them internal rivalries and deeper antagonists within ff. trying to excuse ruruka as anything other than a shitty person and a literal killer is stupid.

When i said everyone, it was obvious I meant everyone who was being an asshole, munakata, juzo, ruruka and edgeboy, Seiko didnt do anything.

Not sure if you forgot, but Seiko was actually on Munakata and co's side on that issue. Even if she wasn't directly antagonizing them in the same way as the others, she still felt the same as they did, and even brought up the idea of drugging them. If you agree with what a total dick is doing, that kind of makes you a bit of a dick by proxy, even if you aren't necessarily committing any direct dickery.

Do you mean the same way Kizakura couldnt open his hand or he'd die, yet still purposefully did it to save someones life because he's not an evil, selfish psychopath like ruruka?

Sacrificing your life for the sake of others is kind of an incredibly difficult thing to do and takes a very strong will and mind, I don't see how it's fair to judge others by that standard. Who else in the franchise has been strong enough to be able to make that kind of decision? Sakura, Gundam (although his case was a bit of a complex issue), and V3 Spoilers

Future Foundation as a whole were the antagonists

If a few bad eggs in a group is all it takes to call that group antagonists, then the casts of DR1, 2, and V3 should qualify as antagonists too, with several killers and a number of other antagonistic characters.

Actually that's accurate in 2's case.

Any dumbass could have just killed the remnants, but they actively tried to save them and revert them to their normal selves, which was actively known to future foundation

They ended the world. Whether they were brainwashed or not hardly even matters at that point. They ended the world. FF personally witnessed the widespread death and destruction they've caused and have suffered many losses against them. FF was completely reasonable in their hatred of the remnants and wanting them dead.

Makoto wasn't part of that, so he doesn't really have any right trying to lecture them on what his view of hope is, and taking a gamble on trying to cure the remnants and very nearly making things even worse than they already were was stupidly risky, but of course it paid off with no repercussions because everything Makoto does needs to be validated because Hope Jesus.

trying to excuse ruruka as anything other than a shitty person

I'm not entirely denying that.

and a literal killer

I'm not denying that either so I'm not totally sure what the argument here is.

I have read somewhere and I think it's quite a good theory about how Ruruka think.

"Ruruka asks Seiko for mostly everything and Seiko can come up with a medicine that somehow could cope with the problem. By this, Ruruka actually thinks Seiko can do anything including -a medicine that would allow her(Seiko) to eat Ruruka's sweet-."

That is why Ruruka is so mad about how Seiko keeps saying she can't and not even try to make the medicine.

This is a really interesting theory!!! I can absolutely see what you mean, why Ruruka would be angry about a perceived lack of effort on Seiko's part. However, my personal feelings about the characters lead me to think that Seiko would definitely have tried, having known how important it was to her friend.

Tried to kill Kyoko cause the death of Kizakura She deserved her shitty death. Seriously i don't get why such a B was even in the Future Foundation, either they recruit every ancient ultimate or they wanted Izayoi since his talent is useful but he wouldn't want to be in there without her so they gave her a sit

Ruruka is a character that was probably planned to be more morally gray than she ended up being portrayed. Here's a rundown of the stuff she did that was made at the time DR3 was coming out.

Early on in Future arc, Seiko is actually a little bit of a jerk. I won't go into too much detail because it's not her week yet, but if she had retained that attitude during all of Future arc and at least had traces of it in Despair arc then Ruruka's assumptions that she's done terrible things would be much more believable. Not necessarily justified, but if she was a bit of a cold fish it would be easier to understand Ruruka's willingness to assume the worst about her.

However, thanks to the fact that Seiko is played off as a precious cinnamon roll who never did nuffin to nobody, Ruruka looks like a huge asshole. Harassing and berating someone who has only ever helped them certainly doesn't look good to an outside viewer, especially given that the evidence against her is genuinely circumstantial.

Now, if in the interim or even in Future Arc, Ruruka realized she was in the wrong and made a genuine effort to make amends, only for Seiko to say "no", that would be an interesting dilemma (keep in mind, even though holding a grudge for a long time is unhealthy, Ruruka still turned on her when Seiko needed her support most, and she could easily be seen as just being "in it" for herself). There would probably be arguments being made even today about who was in the right. Instead, Ruruka makes no real effort to bridge the gap, and just treats Seiko like a wild animal to be beaten into submission and controlled. "Betray your new friends or I'll kill you" isn't exactly something you would demand if you wanted to be friends.

Then there's Izayoi. From what we've seen, he's the one person who Ruruka should be able to trust. He's stayed with her since they were kids, even through getting kicked out of Hope's peak and the entire Tragedy. Only a lunatic would think he only stuck around for candy, and yet that seems to be Ruruka's belief in him. So she forces him to eat candy and it kills him. Granted, she may not have known it would kill him, we didn't see him reveal his NG code until he was dying, but she's still forcing him to do something he clearly isn't up for at the time... Doesn't really say much about their relationship if they didn't share up until that point, but given that Seiko outright told Ruruka repeatedly that she couldn't eat the candy and was ignored, it might just be that Ruruka's a bad listener.

Now that we've said that, we should probably talk about trust. It's a central theme of Ruruka's problems, and it's worth discussing. We don't know why Ruruka has these issues. Sure, we know she thinks Seiko betrayed her, but it was clearly a preexisting problem given how fast she is to believe Seiko of all people would do such a thing. We know more about why Sato murdered Natsumi than we know about why Ruruka doesn't trust anyone, and I bet some of you needed a second to remember who Sato was.

We've talked about trust in the past with Kyoko, and Kyoko was a much better example of the issue. In short, she gets in massive trouble because she's not willing to trust others enough to share what she knows. She also had a backstory that supports her wariness, with her father abandoning her at a young age. The whole arc in DR1 was one of the best ones in the game, and I'm sure some would argue the best in the series.

Ruruka's arc falls significantly short of that. Her mistrust comes to borderline "Too dumb to live" territory. The audience gets no real explanation for why she's like this, but she betrays those she's close to twice. For Seiko it's easy enough to say she made a bad call, but betraying Izayoi when she's in a situation in which having someone you can depend on could be a literal lifesaver was much worse. She doesn't even believe the actual medical expert when she says that she CANNOT eat the candy Ruruka makes.

She also has a thing about thinking her candy is the only good things she can do, but it's not really elaborated on beyond the one sentence it's brought up in and feels like a weak justification for her to never to try to do anything but feed people sweets. While having anxiety and self doubt that cripples your interactions with others is something I'm sure a lot of us can relate to, it doesn't feel like it was well executed here given the abundance of bad stuff she does. A real shame since there's at least 2 characters who pulled it off better in DR2 (I'm thinking Nagito and Mikan, but you could probably make arguments for about half the cast if you wanted to).

And then we have her unapologetic nature. Despite everything she does, she never seems to even doubt that she is perfectly justified. Not when she's trying to kill Kyoko (who is a detective actively trying to find a way to escape the killing game), and gets Kizakura killed in the process. Not when she tries to kill Seiko repeatedly, despite having been friends for years and coworkers. Not when she tries to hypnotize Juzo and get him to murder the rest of the cast, which he breaks out of because her candy's not as magical as she seems to think it is. Even killing Izayoi, she seems more concerned with not getting caught than with the fact that she just murdered her long-term boyfriend. Juzo isn't much better on this front, but at least he does something good just before he dies.

Overall, Ruruka seems to drag down everyone in her life. Also, she cheats on her exams and nobody can convince me otherwise.

How do you think she passed the Hope's Peak exams? She has to have cheated/asked Izayoi to copy his answers.

I'm honestly not sure what the writers were trying to do with Ruruka. It feels like she's supposed to be a morally grey character, but her flaws outweigh her positive qualities too much to make her interesting in that area, and she lacks the charisma & competency needed for a villain, putting her in a very awkward position on the spectrum. The way she treats Seiko isn't even remotely sympathetic, her attempt to kill Kyoko throws her too close to a Moral Event Horizon, her relationship with Izayoi is abusive - overall she's too much of a dick to be redeemable, her flaws aren't capitalized on by the writing enough to make them interesting, and she's too petty & stupid to be a good villain. Not saying petty villains can't be good, but they need to at least have some competency.

Killing her off was also a waste, since it made the Ruruka/Izayoi/Seiko trio's conflict feel pointless in retrospect, although admittedly she was kinda screwed after what she did to Kyoko. The writers attempt to show her self-loathing by making her suicide by far the most brutal, but by that point it feels like a cheap attempt to garner sympathy rather than anything substantial.

That being said, DR3:F's cast is pretty lacklustre, so I'll give her credit for being one of the best attempts at an interesting character even if she did flop.

EDIT: Wait, forgot the most important part - her motives are all over the place. That's pretty much the main reason why she's such an inconsistent character.

Oh, i know what the writers wanted to do with Ruruka. A antagonistic morally gray bitch waifu. Antagonistic actions shown in Future while the backstory shows what really caused the falling out, scene-by-scene personality and relationship with Izayoi making her appealing to people who like bitchy girls who take the lead
But sometimes it feels like DR3 was written in Chernobyl so it didn't really work out

Written in Chernobyl

The true reason for DR3's existence is that Kodaka just took a bunch of acid and just told the writers to do whatever they wanted.

Probably one of the better DR3 characters, while she was inconsequential to the story at least she had a clear, consistent character and we know she's supposed to be a minor villain.

Honestly she should have had a "oh god what have I done" moment before she died, just to get some closure, or a redemption arc and survived, just so that there's at least 3 DR3 survivors.

Quite possibly my least favourite character in the series. Dumb to the point of ignorance, needlessly cruel and manipulative, and doesn't have a single redeeming feature about her. Directly killed two people (including her closest ally) and played a big part in ruining Seiko's life for the pettiest of reasons.

It feels almost like there was a last minute rewrite somewhere where they decided to kill her off instead of letting her be a survivor, and so she kept her bad traits and lost all the redemption stuff to make up for it. It feels like it was set up so that she would find Seiko's body and find out that she had been holding on to that candy this entire time, and this would be the catalyst for change she needed to stop being such a terrible person.

Instead she just dies at a point where it feels like she was simply the last of the B-Plot characters left and they just needed to get rid of her in the corner so they could focus on the end-game, and with that the entire history and screen time for that trio leads to absolutely nothing. It's just another frustration in the mess that is DR3.

I even like Hiyoko and Mikan more than her, and I hate those two immensely. Ruruka is terrible on every level.

Ruruka is one of the most interesting characters of DR3 to me, so much so that I'm writing up her analysis in advance and even doing one. I think that her background and her actions in the killing game are very believable in terms of what a real person would do. I'm not saying she's a good person or justifying her, but I believe that Ruruka is the type of person you could find in real life.

When they showed Ruruka's backstory and her relationship with Seiko, I really connected with her because with some people, that's how I felt cared for. I saw people helping me as them caring for me and me allowing them as me caring for them. Growing up with a very individualistic attitude, I didn't let very few people help me, as that was seen as a sign of weakness. The ones that I did were people that I allowed to see more of me and my weakness.

I also saw it grow into something unhealthy like what later happened between Ruruka and Seiko. I began to purposely find things that I needed help with, just so I could interact with people I liked. This grew to a point where my relationship was just me seeking help and them helping. In the same way, we see Ruruka ask for medicine and Seiko just go and make her some without much more dialogue between them.

Then finally, in Future, we see Izayoi who understands Ruruka's flaws and her inability to trust people and is sees her need. By dying for her, he is helping Ruruka, something that we (and he) know is how she trusts people.

I'm not saying Ruruka is a great person, but I think she was a well written and flawed character.

I just recently (yesterday, in fact) finished watching the anime and... yeah. This is one character I found completely devoid of any purpose whatsoever. Everything she does could have been done with another character or just by removing her and the plot would not have suffered an iota for it. Seiko could have been expelled due to something else, Izayoi could have died from something else (if you want to keep the traps, literally just have him have the "Nobody can leave" NG and done) and nothing would have changed and that's literally the only purpose she serves.

All of that could have been avoided had they given her any sort of redeemable qualifier, something noteworthy for people to really loathe her, but everything she does falls completely flat.

She lived, and then she died. That's pretty much it.

She served her purpose. She was clearly meant to help illustrate the corrupt state of the FF, the leaders were mostly divided in their own groups and doing their own things with Ruruka actively trying to disband and create a new organization.

Her trust issues were related to her talent because her talent was the only thing she was good at and she wanted validation for it, the fact that Seiko couldn't appreciate her for that because of her health problems is what destroyed their friendship (and the fallout was more of Ruruka's fault since she had unreasonable expectations of Seiko eating her sweets and almost dying anyway just to confirm their friendship). The fact that she couldn't feel secure in the DR3 killing game by feeding Izayoi her sweets is what prompted her to kill him to avoid his supposed betrayal too

Overall her character isn't that deep, but it works as the minor antagonist she's supposed to be.

Ando Ruruka: SHSL Wasted Potential

I honestly found her a great character, even though she was (pretty much) portrayed as the villain in the 76th class's "mini arc"(?). I was looking forward to her potential redemption arc, but she was killed off and forgotten...

It was pretty heartbreaking when the survivors were shown to have not even realised that Ruruka was dead... :(

Rest in peace, Ruruka the best DR3 girl. May Seiko eat your sweets in the afterlife.

I love your last line there, it honestly made my heart ache a bit for them. Maybe they'll all find each other and reconcile

She deserved a redemption arc

If Munakata gets cheated out of his headmaster position, and Mitarai can get it without even earning it at all, then at least give her a chance to atone for her mistakes

She should've survived. Her death is shoehorned in literally only for shock factor and adds nothing to the story.

If she survived to A) grow as a character and redeem herself a little or B) not change, still be a rotten selfish person, and atone for what she did to the other FF members in the game (my preferred ending), it would've added to her character AND the overarching plot.

Ruruka is the prime example of people failing to realize that flaws do not automatically make a good character.

E-Everyone here is talking about complex character arcs and I just wanna say her death scene was one of the best in the series.

Without official confirmation of mental illness her character is pretty unforgivable. Her trust issues are like Nagito and hope, holy shit.
The character trio had a mass death, making all of their screentime, setup and development have 0 payoff. Not even a despair-inducing payoff, like, say, Alter Ego's death...it's just nothing. A complete waste.
People can say she's morally grey and stuff but i think it all flats on her face, at best she's a dumb idiot who has no qualms about killing people and has the flimsiest reasons for her actions. She's pretty much on similar grounds to Celeste, except that maaaaybe you can argue mental illness on this case.

There were many, many ways to approach Ruruka. She could have been one of the greatest, instead, she is treated as unimportant, her actions are left aside, there is no character arc and there is no payoff. Similar to DR3 as a whole, Ruruka is a failure

I personally believe Celeste was a much, much more clever character. I feel like she's one of the few from DR1 that could stand toe to toe in verbal matches with Byakuya- that she could adapt to persuade everyone from the Ultimate Heir to a sad, sad otaku. She had very superficial, selfish motives for the murders she commits, but I find her to be a more enjoyable character because she is unapologetic of her actions but at the same time went about her plans in a logical way that played heavily on her shrewd intelligence.

Well, yeah, Celeste is better than Ruruka.
The problem is that this "manipulation' is so fucking easy to see through. I can't believe Hifumi actually believed that lie of hers, and it's not in those "what an idiot" kinds of i can't believe, it's the "this is so stupid it doesn't make sense in the story" kind of i can't believe. It makes Hifumi THAT MUCH WORSE and it makes Celeste THAT LESS CREDIBLE as the expert liar she is.

She's intelligent, and has composure...but that's about it. Her murder plot caused no character development or moved the plot, her motives were superficial, her general scene-by-scene personality is...pretty boring, to be honest, i don't think she's funny or charming and i can't even be disgusted like i am with Nagito.

"Better than Ruruka" isn't really a high bar, y'know, when i said "similar grounds to Celeste" i meant in how morally wrong they are

Thanks for clarifying!

Again, just gonna copy my answer from the Improvement threads:

As someone who likes Ruraka a considerable amount more than the average viewer seemingly, I argue that there are a considerable number of ways in which her potential as an alternative antagonistic-leaning character could have been utilized, in much the same way as Munakata was. Further backstory for the whole Class 76 trio, particually in terms of why their personalities' are what they are. While we do see some backstory, it's entirely focused on the relationship between Ruraka and Seiko to the point that we get no other information on them. Seeing why Ruraka has such massive trust issues would go a long way into setting her up as a sympathetic character, as would giving more on Seiko to allow them to further be tragic mirrors of each other, and any depth to Izayoi related to what he means to Ruraka would make his murder and their relationship considerably more effective, especially compared to how lacking in depth he is currently. Questions such as 'Does their relationship only confirm Ruraka's worldview on dependant allie's or enemie's being the only two options?' being answered, for instance. Rather than having her being discovered as Izayoi's murderer cause her to increase her antagonism, use it as the point she begins her redemption arc. I feel it's safe to say that whatever your initial impressions and opinion of her character are, they went heavily down and cemented themselves there when following Kyoko's investigation she proceeded to attempt to mind-control Juzo, killed Kizakura (especially as it was his focus episode) and generally showed no regret and mostly villainous joy in the situation, which, put simply, are simply actions no-one can view as anything but evil. IMO, any redemption arc after this would come across as forced and unrewarding, as no-one believes in her as a tragic character (as she isn't shown as one). As such, I suggest the entire episode is modified, with Kyoko's investigation prompting an emotional/mental, tragic breakdown in which we see Izayoi's death scene there and view her accept and detest her own actions. This keeps her actions in the story thus far the same, but presents her in a tragic light, giving viewers more desire to see her rise above her faults and somehow redeem herself, and the faith in her moral character that she could actually reform in the first place. Now, of course, this has the issue of changing the events of the episode quite a bit, but I'm confident the writing team could create some other reason by which Kizakura could heroically die and Kyoko/Ryota escape, etc. Don't kill her in such an insignificant manner. As many before me have pointed out, Ruraka's death especially feels like a waste, being mostly overlooked for Kyoko's faux-death moments later and never being brought up again, it leaves Class 76 in the unfortunate position of feeling quite pointless to the overall plot, with the only real addition being a controversial dues-ex-machine which only required one of the trio. Now, this suggestion doesn't mean she has to survive, in fact Ruraka performing a heroic death in the final two episodes at some point could kill two birds with one stone; acting as a confirmation and climax to her redemption arc, and solving a major criticism held towards the end of the series' that no-one dies. As for who could die to the timer in her place, I've got a radical solution: Have Chisa and/or Bandai not die their early deaths (AKA remove the first knocked-out suicide and/or the tutorial NG code death) and use them to fill in the gap, allowing Ruraka to die later or survive. I actually believe having her heroically die is ideal to her surviving, escaping the insignificance of her current death while still accepting penance for her murder and injustices, showing the extent of her redemption arc as well as fulfilling the typical 'reunification-in-death' trope for the trio. As a final point, I'd just like to address the 'Elephant in the Room', Ruraka, like many characters in DR3, was a major victim of the lack of time and episodes the development team had, and even three more episodes being allowed would've, from my perspective, monumentally advanced her character along with others if use correctly to the same standard as the rest of the series.

[🍰]Ruruka is a very interesting and a well-developed character. I love her to death, she's my #1 favorite character in the DR franchise.

From what I've come to accept as Ruruka is that she is an extremely insecure person who has a mental disorder that causes her to be selfish while also self-sabotaging. And I've read a good "they didn't say she had a mental disorder so it's not there" because I guess some things have to be spelled out for people instead of having to look between the lines and context clues.

"Cause I feel like I'm the worse so I always act like I'm the best" is a line that I really come to sympathize with Ruruka's character. She has inferiority issues that stem from her talent. I've never really thought it was a coincidence that people that three people who've known each other since they were little kids all ended up at Hope's Peak (that would be kind of ridiculous) so I always imagined that perhaps they went to the Elementary just as the UDG kids did. But even if Ruruka, Seiko, and Izyaoi had not, it was a burden on Ruruka to be surrounded by these talented people despite the fact that she herself had one. Why? Because in her mind, it is useless. Seiko can do ANYTHING in her mind. She can change the world, help people, etc etc. Meanwhile, Ruruka can make sweets. This leads to an inferiority complex that started out small but eventually grew into bitterness. Ruruka began to feel worthless, she put Seiko on this pedestal of talent and skill. And so Ruruka attempted to use Seiko in order to make herself feel powerful, to bend the person who has the ability to do ANYTHING (which is honestly still bs and Seiko's talent was bad writing on the DR3 group's part but hey what else is new). In her mind, Seiko wasn't really a person but something that was better than her. In order to make herself feel better, Ruruka tried to use Seiko like a tool for power but in the end, it only made Ruruka and Seiko bitter and resentful towards each other. Their relationship was toxic on many levels because Ruruka was someone who hated herself so much and wanted to be "perfect" to offset how much she hated herself. But making Seiko do these things never made her feel any better. It also didn't help that Seiko refused to eat her sweets when she can create medicines that do anything except the one thing Ruruka wanted her to do. "Just make a medicine that allows you to eat the candy." "Just make sugar free candy." However, neither of these options are really brought up in the anime. But not because of shoddy writing, I'm sure.

There are a few key things that people tend to forget when talking about Ruruka:

Izayoi was the one who blamed Seiko in the first place.
THIS is what started Ruruka's trust issues. It didn't start her depression, self-hatred, or anything else wrong with her. But it started her trust issues. Once the judges have been lax'd, Ruruka is in shock and doubts her abilities rather than Seiko. She doesn't understand what has happened, but once Izayoi points out that Seiko's drugs must be the problem and not Ruruka, she firmly believes this. And the whole bomb situation only makes Seiko look more guilty. Ruruka is expelled and this leaves her distraught; She is truly worthless and betrayed. However, once the world comes to an end, she helps the Future Foundation. She gathers food resources and helps people. I think that is something people tend to forget a lot. Ruruka wants to help people, but she has a strong sense of self-preservation. When you're in a series where Chiaki literally only thinks about her friends in death, you kind of forget that it's more realistic for a character to think about themselves in a high-risk situation. "I can't die now, there's so much I haven't done. I'm still a terrible person, I need to survive and get better! I don't want to die, I want to bake more, see more, live live live". That's a compelling, realistic response to a live-or-death situation and being a COMPLETE saint isn't really... Interesting. If you're in a situation where barely know anyone, anyone could be the one killing, and your life is constantly on the line- It's not a stretch to attempt to kill them yourself when they could kill you. Juzo literally knew Ruruka's NG code and still went through the exit. I don't think Ruruka is "SUPER EVIL CANDY BITCH SLUT!!!" (which is gross and anyone who says things like that loses any respect immediately) for acting on her paranoid thoughts, but rather acted in a less-than-logical way.

Seiko attempts to kill Ruruka first
Lapse in judgement huh? It's easy to forget that in the killing game, while Ruruka and Izayoi both believe Seiko to be the traitor; Seiko believes the exact same thing in them. She takes her medicine and she attempts to kill them first. Izayoi and Ruruka attempt to fight back, and Ruruka even has a hard time with it because she always looked up to Seiko in her own weird, bitter way. She also never causes a scene with Seiko before the Killing Game started, showing that she has self-restraint and had a professional relationship with Seiko in the FF and the Killing Game more brought out their mutual hatred. Ruruka wanted a friend but she also wanted an equal and Seiko was never an equal to her. The toxic friendship between them was a two-way street of encased bitterness from both parties- Seiko clearly states in their Despair Arc episode that Ruruka makes her do things she doesn't want to a lot and Seiko is not a manipulated victim but is very aware of it. She just doesn't say anything about it to Ruruka, doesn't cut off their ties, or anything. Seiko keeps her bitterness inside. Ruruka may derive power from Seiko, but it is likely that Ruruka didn't even realize what she was doing and hadn't meant to act out of her bitterness when she was a teen.

Mind Control Candies = Not a thing before High School
In the transcripts of Ruruka's Hope Peak file, it is stated that she had the ability to manipulate people with her candies but she did not have a history of abusing them. Along with the dramatic Izayoi death scene, it shows that Ruruka had no mind-control on him which was a popular Ruruka-hate theory that I just wanted to debunk real quick.

So while Ruruka did selfish, incredibly morally grey actions, she was a complex, realistic character with interesting motivations and complicated reasoning. I enjoy her character immensely and even if you don't, I'm glad I do and I hope this brought some light to her character regardless <3

"they didn't say she had a mental disorder so it's not there" because I guess some things have to be spelled out for people instead of having to look between the lines and context clues

It's fucking Danganronpa. Look at all the crazy characters that absolutely don't have implied mental illnesses and Ruruka being mental is nothing but a unconfirmed theory where the basis can be summed up to "she's a fucking asshole therefore she's mental"
Danganronpa doesn't have a lot of subtlety, it's pretty shitty to dismiss a valid argument just because you WANT it to be there so you PUT it there. Even then, being mental doesn't make Ruruka any better, if anything, it just makes her even more shallow because her whole character can be summed up to "lolcrazy" which is the problem with most lolcrazy characters

Even then, being mental doesn't make Ruruka any better, if anything, it just makes her even more shallow because her whole character can be summed up to "lolcrazy" which is the problem with most lolcrazy characters

Except there's a difference between being lolcrazy and having an actual mental disorder that contextualizes their personality and behavior. Danganronpa is be a very cartoonish series with over the top designs and styles but that doesn't mean it's not a series where reading between the lines can't develop and enrich your understanding of certain characters and themes.

but that doesn't mean it's not a series where reading between the lines can't develop and enrich your understanding of certain characters and themes.

Maybe sorta but not really no. Danganronpa is not a deep series, the characterization is one of its weakest points frequently being very basic and shallow with weak attempts at depth on FTEs. What you actually mean by "reading between the lines" is "trying to find my headcanon in the canon". Ruruka's depth isn't on a mental condition with a unconfirmed existence, it's in the very visible attempt at a tragic friendship with some sort of grey morality due to the circumstances of the incidents. She was given trust issues to explain her motivations, not as a consequence of a preplanned mental illness.
How can i say that?Well, we heard nothing official about a mental illness on her, while the other character who's "deep" and meant for people to question the series's values, Nagito, is also presented in a very clear way without much to read between the lines, and, y'know, his mental illness is confirmed.
Even then it doesn't really change much, if Ruruka's behavior is controlled by a mental illness, then she isn't morally grey or deep, she just needs medical treatment.

Maybe sorta but not really no. Danganronpa is not a deep series, the characterization is one of its weakest points frequently being very basic and shallow with weak attempts at depth on FTEs.

Except, yeah? Obviously this doesn't apply to every character, but the majority of them have some pretty great characterization. Most everyone in DR1, DR2, and V3 are characterized extremely well, generally given either a moderately simple or very exaggerated personality, with their own motives and views, some more complex than others, that frame their character in the story in interesting ways.

For example, Sayaka. A genuinely sweet and perky girl who's so attached to her childhood dream that she's crushed by the expectations of those around her and is desperate to fulfill and not disappoint them so she isn't thrown to the side and forgotten by a harsh and unforgiving industry she's made many personal sacrifices to be a part of. Conflicted about her decision, but ultimately driven to madness.

Or Mondo, possessing a strong complex about not being able to live up to his and society's image of what a "real man" is, leading to recklessness over trying to prove how "strong" he is, and mind-numbing jealously over meeting someone who actually has the strength he's always struggled to have himself. Or tl;dr "Toxic Masculinity The Character"

Sakura, a woman who's so fiercely loyal that she's in deep conflict over loyalty to her friends and loyalty to her family's legacy, ultimately finding a way to guarantee that she doesn't need to betray anyone, finding comfort in the fact that she was able to guarantee the safety of everyone and everything she cared about by giving her life.

That's not even FTE writing, but stuff that's explored in the main story, and that's just in the first game.

It's not "subtle", but these are human, complex themes and arcs for a series with a talking monochromatic bear who makes puns and sounds like Doraemon/Mickey Mouse. Dismissing these just because of a story's general style would be doing a massive disservice to them.

What you actually mean by "reading between the lines" is "trying to find my headcanon in the canon".

That's...not how that works. Dismissing everything that isn't explicitly confirmed by text isn't how narrative analysis works, especially when subtext is an actual thing.

Most everyone in DR1, DR2, and V3 are characterized extremely well

By your low standards. Go play Ace Attorney.

Or tl;dr "Toxic Masculinity The Character"

Or, y'know, a trigger happy retard who killed a dude because he has anger issues. I won't deny his struggle to find strength and that could've been cool but his downright stupid motives for murder make him pretty fucking shitty, not to mention, his design, scene-by-scene behavior, and even all of his story is just pretty generic

Sakura is pretty good.

Y'know, you can't pick and choose the "best" examples and just go with them, you also have, in the same game, Celeste, the blandest killer who's just a bad and boring version of Junko, with the shallowest motives and personality, that make her a very forgettable character. You have Hifumi, Yasuhiro, Leon(yeah fuck spin-offs), and Naegi. All forgettable and/or shallow. It's also easy to make something look good by describing it in a pompous way, y'know, i could always say "Sayaka is this cute girl that goes crazy and resorts to murder and framing to get out of this despair-inducing situation" which is more accurate and only then we can begin to analyze the execution of her concept before we just pretend the concept itself is amazing. Danganronpa's practically on the same level as fucking Love Live in that regard, except it has many more fails and hiccups.

Dismissing everything that isn't explicitly confirmed by text isn't how narrative analysis works

No, but i only work with what's shown, and Ruruka's trust issues come from shitty writing that is all across DR3, not because of a mental illness, because that's not even remotely implied anywhere, it's simply "she has trust issues", that's what's said, that's what the anime goes with when trying to explain her situation and that's that. I have absolutely no reason to believe Ruruka has a mental illness considering Danganronpa doesn't have a history of being subtle, DR3 doesn't change that and it still presents all of its points very clearly while adding its own recognizable attempts at depth, by making it very obvious but making it feel like it's complex and subtle. Danganronpa excels at presentation, it can make very stupid concepts feel powerful and compelling. When you take a step back though, it's very formulaic and doesn't go beyond its goals, and its best execution lies at how events impact the characters and how they deal with that, 2-6 adds a lot of depth to the main characters due to the Ultimate Despair stuff, but the highlight is the moral dilemma that is presented, displayed and solved right then and there, not really the implications...because they're pretty obvious. Except V3-6, maybe, that one has a lot of analysis potential.

Well, that was a tangent. Anyway, Ruruka isn't mental because, despite acting like one, she's not presented as one.

And in regards to your general analysis, although i agree with a few points, Ruruka's scene-by-scene behavior and general personality are inherently toxic in a very Hiyoko way. Not to mention, her motivations can have as much grounding as they want, killing Izayoi was the fucking stupidest thing i've ever seen...besides Tengan's plan. Ruruka makes the situation worse for everyone near her, including her own NECESSARY FOR SURVIVAL and deeply trusted boyfriend who she knows won't harm her. It made her look like the biggest idiot, it made no sense, her arc had no payoff and she's ultimately wasted as a character, just like Izayoi and Seiko

Go play Ace Attorney

Um, I do and have? Been an Ace Attorney fan longer than I've been a Danganronpa fan. While the likes of Phoenix, Edgeworth, Damon Gant, Godot, Adrian Andrews, Lang, Blackquill, Roger Retinz, and others do stand out, and a number of others carry immense charm such as Gumshoe and Ema, DR's characterization is definitely superior on the whole imo, although obviously both series have their share of bad characters.

Or, y'know, a trigger happy retard who killed a dude because he has anger issues.

Anger issues brought on by his lifestyle and upbringing in a biker gang. He also admits in his FTE that him getting loud and angry is sometimes just a matter of him being nervous, and he doesn't really know how to express it.

All he's ever really known is outer strength, and to him that strength translates to being reckless and aggressive.

his downright stupid motives for murder make him pretty fucking shitty

He killed in a blind, intense rage, which is how a lot of murders go. I'd actually call that more realistic than most of the others if anything. He even admits that he did it purely out of reflex and that he even blacked out in the middle of it. Everything that came afterward, him trying to cover up the crime and attempting to get away with it, relates to his actual motive. Hell, the fact that Kiyotaka was the one who did most of the actual defending makes it pretty clear that a part of Mondo felt incredibly guilty and wanted to be punished for his actions, but he couldn't just break a promise with family.

in the same game, Celeste, the blandest killer who's just a bad and boring version of Junko, with the shallowest motives and personality, that make her a very forgettable character.

A normal, plain girl who makes up this exotic and fantastical persona, making up dreams and tales about herself to make herself feel more special than she really is, and who uses that character as an excuse to be cold, calculating, and narcissistic to the extreme, made clear by her vitriol toward her actual, "loser" name. Her supposed "motives" are implicitly revealed to just be a lie to go along with "Celestia Ludenberg" when she admits that the money was secondary to her actual reason for murder, escaping the hellhole that she was trapped in.

I don't see how she's anything like Junko beyond extremely superficial similarities. They're...both assholes? They're both girls?

Hifumi

I said "Most everyone" for a reason. There's gonna be shit somewhere.

Hagakure, Leon

Simple writing does not and never has equated to "bad" writing. This is a prime time for me to reference DDLC and the different writing styles of it's characters but for all I know I might be the only one who's played it.

Hagakure is an impulsive and ditzy coward who's so terrible with money and planning that he needs to resort to conning people, whereas Leon is an immature jock who's so brilliantly talented that it's made him lazy, unmotivated, and hate baseball, turning to music only because he wants to impress a girl and thinks it's easy. A definitive teen.

So no, nothing even remotely interesting, but not everyone needs to be. Nothing wrong with having a few characters that are comparatively simple. If anything, I like that.

Makoto

A guy who was designed to be just a totally normal guy with only a couple distinct traits to contrast with all these weird and wacky personalities. It's an intentional design choice, not a result of him being a bad character.

It's also easy to make something look good by describing it in a pompous way

It's not "pompous", it's called being descriptive and conveying the character concisely and accurately.

y'know, i could always say "Sayaka is this cute girl that goes crazy and resorts to murder and framing to get out of this despair-inducing situation"

Technically accurate but it's not really being representing them properly. I could also describe Nagito as a "hope-obsessed crazypants who plans his own death" which is technically true through the most bare-bones use of language and vocabulary but obviously there's a lot more to talk about and go over in regards to him.

Ruruka's scene-by-scene behavior and general personality are inherently toxic in a very Hiyoko way.

And I very much agree with that, as I mentioned in my analysis.

Ruruka's trust issues come from shitty writing that is all across DR3, not because of a mental illness, because that's not even remotely implied anywhere, it's simply "she has trust issues"

And her trust issues can be pretty simply explained too. She simply can't believe that anyone would like her if it weren't for her ability to make sweets. This applies to Izayoi just as well, so when she loses the ability to do that for him thanks to his bracelet, she thinks that she's lost all value to him, thus making her a liability and therefore making it all the more likely that he would betray her for his own survival. Is it incredibly irrational? Yes, but that's because Ruruka is an irrational character, especially in the context of an incredibly tense, stressful killing game, which is known to bring out the worst in people.

Not to mention being "betrayed" by Seiko, which was the straw that broke the camel's back in her eyes.

Although to be fair in that context, Izayoi was the one to act hostile to Seiko and act like it was her fault first.

her arc had no payoff and she's ultimately wasted as a character, just like Izayoi and Seiko

Again, I agree with this completely.

I think a lot of people don't seem to understand that I know that Ruruka is a bad person with a blatantly unfinished and wasted character arc with zero payoff. But there's a lot of good to her character anyway and I'm gonna be defending those elements.

DR's characterization is definitely superior on the whole imo, although obviously both series have their share of bad characters.

Ace Attorney's characterization is focused, it doesn't have the FTEs, so it has the freedom to present stories and backgrounds in the order it wants while also making them relevant to the story. It's a fucking massive edge it has over Danganronpa and i think it's better at it than Danganronpa in every category
You take a main girl like Kyoko and compare her to Athena, Kyoko's general personality is the most boring thing in the world, she's too calm and too overpowered in the setting to be good, she lacks any side interests and even post-amnesia she just reacts so boringly to everything, being so unaffected by the important stuff and so disinterested in the side stuff, while Athena's interest is frequently sparkled, she has a chemistry with Apollo where the two personalities clash repeatedly, she is also competent at her job but in a different way in that she can offer more personal and psychological insight thus making her a valuable addition but not one that feels like it does all the job, her backstory is directly connected towards the entirety of Dual Destinies and it explains all of her already good behavior and triggers her character growth while Kyoko's backstory and big reveal after being amnesiac is disappointing, predictable and changes nothing on how she acts.
Maya to Chiaki, Chiaki's the most idealized waifu in Danganronpa, while Maya has her own set of flaws, same chemistry stuff with Phoenix, she has a interesting backstory that influences the whole series continuously, has continuous character growth across games, and doesn't feel as much like a designated waifu you're so strongly supposed to like. Although i loved 2-5, what truly made it sad was the relationship built between Chiaki and the cast, not Chiaki herself.
Main characters, Phoenix to Makoto, Makoto's just a normal boi who has op optimism, he's so bland but he's meant to be because self-insert or whatever, but Phoenix can serve as a straight man, offering his own input, having his own nervous yet snarky personality, building confidence and being just relatable enough to serve as a self-insert but also having his own character that evolves throughout the games as well. Hajime is a massive improvement over Makoto, but if you compare Hajime to Apollo, Apollo has all of Hajime's qualities while also having a fuckton of backstory, character development, challenge of his own ideals and surpassing his own struggles which Hajime has too but just a bit of which is solved very fast...and kinda stupidly.
Rivals, Edgeworth's rise from prick to bro is way smoother and more grounded than Byakuya, the duality of Nagito is surpassed ten times over by Blackquill's(better general personality in both cases too).
Side characters, comparing Ema to Ibuki, Ema who's relevant to the general plot, builds a natural friendship with the main cast, has a charismatic personality by nature, and Ibuki who although she's one of my favorite characters, has a very simplistic personality and backstory, it works wonderfully, but not as wonderfully as Ema. She's just one example, even then, i think AA's lowest lows are higher than Danganronpa's lowest lows, Brushell > Hifumi

I'm pretty confident i'm not doing this myself to not sound hypocritical when i say: describing a character doesn't make me think they're better. I saw the character, i know what they're like. You need to explain to me why exactly they work past a basic storytelling level.

I don't see how she's anything like Junko beyond extremely superficial similarities. They're...both assholes? They're both girls?

They're both female remorseless unsympathethic killers who have drastic changes in personality and only do things for their own benefit. The difference is that Junko is so crazy and out there and unlike anything you've seen in the game, and has such a huge impact and such a unforgettable presence when compared to Celeste's "i created a persona" and predictable murder/irrelevance to any characters or general plot affair.

A normal, plain girl who makes up this exotic and fantastical persona

Yeah, and then Gundham does the same and is fucking amazing and a fan favorite because his scene-by-scene behavior is unforgettable and entertaining and he has a impactful conclusion to his character and heavy influence on the cast.
A character isn't just what they're made of, it's how they're written in the story. It's not difficult to make a character that you have stuff to describe, or with more than one layer of personality, if anything that is necessary, but Celeste is presented in such a bland fashion, and her hidden depths are just mildly entertaining rather than thought-provoking or anything, thus, she fails.

So no, nothing even remotely interesting, but not everyone needs to be. Nothing wrong with having a few characters that are comparatively simple.

Know who's comparatively simple?Ibuki and Sonia. Rather irrelevant characters without an arc or impact on the plot. And yet, they're memorable because their scene-by-scene behavior is perfect.
A character being forgettable is unexcusable if you plan on giving them a important role, it doesn't matter how they're constructed or if their character makes sense if they're boring and hog time from the cooler people that can liven up the scene.

He killed in a blind, intense rage, which is how a lot of murders go.

He got triggered, do you get how stupid that is?Just like Ruruka, he's not portrayed as mental, just a guy with anger issues and pride. Because Chihiro said very specific words, he fucking murdered the guy like he had PTSD or something.
I like what he did after and i feel that this adds a lot to his character. But let that backstory aside, the reason he killed Chihiro, is because he got triggered, it's fucking stupid and he deserved to die if he's just gonna be so dangerous, this is not what i want my thoughts on a character to be if the game tries to portray them as somewhat sympathethic, TERUTERU DOES THIS BETTER

Yes, but that's because Ruruka is an irrational character

She's retarded, her way of thinking is so ridiculously one-way and unchangeable that it's no wonder she died, it's not cool or adds depth to her character because it doesn't add another layer to her character, it just makes her existing layer so simplistic and unbelievable and makes her such a too-dumb-to-live idiot who ruined her chances of survival because she's fucking mental even though she isn't.
Oh and she tried to kill people who had nothing to do with her shit too.

But there's a lot of good to her character anyway and I'm gonna be defending those elements.

Alright, here's the thing...
Ruruka is a character who accomplishes nothing, has zero payoff on her character arc, has a personality that makes scenes worse, comes across as the dumbest fucking idiot on the building(if you disregard Tengan because holy fucking shit) to SUCH A DEGREE THAT MENTAL ILLNESS MAKES SENSE AS A THEORY.
That...makes her a bad character, no?
Even if she had a backstory, that is ruined by the lack of followup and payoff, even if she had morally grey motivations, that is ruined by her retardation, even if she has insecurities and other hidden aspects, it's ruined by her toxic personality. She fails as a character, and drags down Seiko and Izayoi with her. I cannot buy a character as being good when only their bare foundation is there.

EDIT: textboi. Holy shit. Eh, whatever, i'm passionate about writing, and this is a discussion thread. I'm not making a TL;DR but i understand if you want to finish this and just leave your final thoughts on something

[🍰] 
"That...makes her a bad character, no?"

Nope.

It was a rhetorical question. If she's a pathethic writing failure who isn't well-executed in any regard then she's not a good character

continue this thread

As much hate as this character get's i can't help but feel a little bad for her. I mean Ruruka just seems to be that kind of person that wouldn't stop doing something that is inherently bad unless someone told her flat out to stop when she starts doing it. She always has Seiko doing things for her ever since they were kids. Ruruka grew to become so dependent on her in a sense that she would always get her to do things for herself. Seiko being who she is would oblige except eating her candy. I think Ruruka wanted to pay her back after so much and the only way to do that was through her talent.

There are a lot of very well put together words in this thread.

But at the end of the day she's just a filler character so

Good punching bag

Ugh, I really don't like her at all. I do think that her character was never meant to be one to sympathise with (at least I hope not, otherwise the writers of her character are the most incompetent people on the planet) but unlike Junko, who was entertaining in her insanity and having no redeemable qualities (I love her though), Ruruka leans heavily on the annoying side of things. Her reasoning for distrusting Seiko is the most petty thing ever, sure, if Seiko simply said that she didn't want any of her sweets, I would understand, but Seiko literally says that she'll die if she eats any. Her treatment of everyone around her is just generally annoying and unlike a lot of other characters which I feel would be better if the series ran longer, she is just a character who sucks from the get go, with very little room for improvment on her established character. She was one of the 2 deaths in the series that I felt happy to see, the other one being a certain student council leader from V3.

Character Discussion #54 - Great Gozu (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Great Brozu is nice, but…that's it. He's nice and he died. The few scenes we got to see of him are pretty fun, but we don't get to learn anything about him apart from the fact that he's nice and that he died. I feel there's a pretty common sentiment in the DR fanbase to conflate likability with the quality of the character. I wouldn't mind hanging out with some of the nicer characters if they were real, but it doesn't make them good or interesting, and likewise, I can still appreciate the assholes as long as they're handled properly. Don't get me wrong, I don't think every character should be some morally gray conflict bag, and I don't think that automatically makes characters good. I'm only saying that if you're going to make a nice character, have some dimension to them that goes beyond being just nice, or really have them serve some greater situation to the narrative. Gozu just felt like one of many wasted character slots.

I even really like the idea a few had thinking he was the one to make it look like Hina died to prevent the attacker from going after her.

Great Gozu versus Moozilla--someone make that into a movie.

Great Gozu versus Moozilla

...I'll do it.

I feel there's a pretty common sentiment in the DR fanbase to conflate likability with the quality of the character.

Isn't that important if you want to make a pure good-aligned character?Stories are writing, after all, and if a character is written in a way where their personality has the point of being likable, aren't they a success?Ibuki's the best example for this.
Depth isn't everything, general personality is extremely important if you want the character to have a lasting effect.

Of course, but in a cast of several characters that already do that (most notably Makoto himself), I'm only saying that you shouldn't oversaturate the cast with characters like this.

The flipside of it is that I feel like some people just write off characters because they do something assholeish (and the game is consistent with how that character should be treated) and they're suddenly a terrible character.

You could also look at characters like Nagito or Kokichi, who either get written off the moment they do something people don't like (which misses the entire point of antagonistic characters), or you have the other side where people do like them as characters, but feel like they have to excuse their shitty behavior to still like them. "I've seen plenty of "Nagito/Kokichi/whoever do anything wrong" sentiments and not as a joke.

I don't mind Ibuki, but she also had very little to nothing of consequence ever happen with her. She gave testimony in the first case and then she died in the third. I know she had a filler scene, but she still felt like she was there to fill in a cast slot. I'm not telling anyone not to like her, but she's not that great a character to me.

In general, I kinda have this issue with several of the "nice" characters. For me, it's the difference between say, Ryoma and Chiaki. It's not to say I'd like them more if they were more morally gray, but instead I'd like to see more substance to them than "I don't like killing and I want to stop the killing game."

I don't relate likability with just being a literal good person. I don't think Makoto is likable at all, he's a boring character that i don't like watching. Hajime is likable, he's strong-minded and reacts to things like a cynical highschooler would.

I like Ibuki however because she makes scenes better, and i really feel that's what her character is supposed to do. She's unlike anyone else in the cast and adds a lot of energy to the scenes, she has quite a few effective gags and has the "i want to hang out with her" effect so much it caused me to rush her FTEs. Not everyone likes her as much as i do but the sentiment is similar: Ibuki is a good character because she works as a fun person. Even if a character doesn't exactly do anything of importance or has a strong role, as long as they aren't that important, they can easily go by just by being effective in the scenes they are in.

After all, every story is a scene-by-scene deal. Not everyting is Warhammer or Elder Scrolls where enjoyment can come from studying the history of a world. Danganronpa is a story, with scenes, and if a characters's sole purpose is to improve the scenes with their presence, then they work in that regard.

I get the flipside, my issue with your point of view is that you seem to give little to no attention to a characters's general personality, which is a extremely important part of writing a character because if you don't make them work in a scene-by-scene basis, then they're gonna fail when their depth is shown.
Gundham's your flair, so i imagine you like him. Imagine if he was like Makoto while he doesn't have much importance, just this vanilla dude with no quirks, he'd still have a cool moment in his death but...can you even call him good when he was just so boring the rest of the time?

I get the flipside, my issue with your point of view is that you seem to give little to no attention to a characters's general personality, which is a extremely important part of writing a character because if you don't make them work in a scene-by-scene basis, then they're gonna fail when their depth is shown.

I'm not saying put no weight at all in personality. I'm highlighting this because I think it's a very specific sentiment in the DR fanbase.

Gundham's your flair, so i imagine you like him. Imagine if he was like Makoto while he doesn't have much importance, just this vanilla dude with no quirks, he'd still have a cool moment in his death but...can you even call him good when he was just so boring the rest of the time?

Considering he actually did something of consequence in the story, yes. It's not to say I wouldn't welcome more screentime with him, but I think you're stretching too much from what I'm trying to say. I'm just highlighting that I feel like too many DR fans just write off or jump toward characters that are just nice sprites or abandon ship the moment they do anything non-sympathetic even if they're still interesting.

"Don't write off dick characters" is my only key point.

"Don't write off dick characters" is my only key point.

It's weird to state this in a thread that isn't about one of these characters.

Considering he actually did something of consequence in the story, yes.

Mitarai and Tengan did something of importance in the story, but you'd be hard pressed to find one guy who thinks they're better than Ibuki. Or hell, even Gozu.

My entire point about Gozu isn't a very noteworthy or good character, and the fact that he's nice doesn't save him. That's not really an issue.

Mitarai and Tengan did something of importance in the story, but you'd be hard pressed to find one guy who thinks they're better than Ibuki. Or hell, even Gozu.

I never said they were better characters though. I already pointed out that the story has to be consistent with the character's behavior. Story importance isn't what I'm talking about, I'm talking about characters being sympathetic or unsympathetic. You can do that and not necessarily be a central character to the main stroryline, like Angie in v3.

Don't try and extrapolate a whole essay of my thoughts from a single sentence.

My entire point about Gozu isn't a very noteworthy or good character, and the fact that he's nice doesn't save him. That's not really an issue.

I mean, he's not a "very" good character, but i'd certainly put him in the "good" category, because what he brings to the table is enough to remove him out of the "boring/annoying" part of the spectrum and put him in the "fun" part, that alone already makes him good, even with reduced screentime. Depth would be nice, but for a minor character, it's ultimately unnecessary.

Story importance isn't what I'm talking about, I'm talking about characters being sympathetic or unsympathetic.

Well, yeah, but you said "yes, because he actually did something of importance in the story" when i asked "would Gundham be good if he was boring?"
I don't know, i've read this essay of yours in previous discussion threads, and although in Ruruka it was fair enough it seems completely unrelated here if all we're talking about is a character being sympathethic.

He might not have had much screen time. Or any development. Or much characterization to be honest...

But at least we will always have a gif of him destroying the floor with The People's Elbow. Which, when you really think about it, is honestly probably one of highlights of the entirety of DR3 and certainly one of Future's very few. So kudos to you Gozu. You managed to make do with what very little you were given.

Also, I feel like he gets massive bonus points from me just for being voiced by Chris Rayger (aka, the voice of Mr. Satan) in the dub.

While he may not have had much characterization or screen-time, Great Brozu was one of the few Future Arc characters I genuinely was sad to see die. While he's not the only person to support Makoto from the beginning, he seems to be the most genuine of them. He immediately jumps to Naegi's defense, and ELBOW DROPPED THROUGH FUCKING CONCRETE TO PROTECT HIM. That's metal as fuck.

RIP Great Brozu. May you rest peacefully with all the other Baras.

[S]So sorry for the missing week, I ended up extremely busy and missed some dates, and decided to just wait until the next Monday to continue posting it. I didn't think a one week hiatus was worth making an announcement post about either, but if people would rather be updated instead of left in the dark let me know.

These should go up about the same time as they normally would, and in the future I'll make sure to announce it beforehand.

Otherwise don't let this steal the show from the greatest cow man that graced the Earth!

*Great Brozu

FTFY

Once again, we have someone who doesn't really get enough screen time to show real character, so I may stretch what we do see, similar to what I did with the DR:AE kids.

From the outset, Gozu seems to be a fairly even-tempered person, arguing that they shouldn't be so worried about the remnants of despair since they've quieted down. Whether this is a sound conclusion is debatable, but given that he's almost certainly been fighting the remnants on the front lines it's much more reasonable than would be expected. He also physically fights Juzo and Munakata to stop them from executing Naegi without trial, which is all the more impressive since he doesn't even think Naegi is innocent of the charges, just that they need to actually have a trial. He also uses his own jacket to cover Yukizome's body, a sign of respect nobody else has done in the entire series.

He even blocks the door to ensure that the attacker wouldn't be able to get into the room while they were there (or if the attacker was in the room, they would be easy to spot since there were only 4 possible options). Of course it didn't end up meaning much since Gozu was the next victim for some inexplicable reason (seriously Tengan, why would you pick your own bodyguard as the second victim? Is it because he asked for a raise?).

All that sort of makes sense when you consider that he's a wrestler. It doesn't specify what kind of wrestler, but it would either be wrestling as a sport or professional wrestling, which is more of a play with extremely strong actors... Or maybe both. As a sport, he would want to ensure everyone's abiding by some ground rules to avoid causing undue harm. As a showman, his extremely hammy speaking pattern once he gets revved up makes a bit more sense, as sport wrestling tends to be a bit less showy than "professional wrestling". It could also be argued that he's used to "fights" being relatively low stakes, and that holding actual grudges over losses that don't really matter would seem completely insane to him, though in context that kind of sounds like he himself is mad.

Unfortunately, that's about all we get. His NG code is literally connected to his talent, so trying to extrapolate that would only tell us that he's like Maizono and ties a lot of his identity to said talent. Given that he also wears his mask despite it being the apocalypse, that may not be wrong, but I don't know if I'd call it a solid theory.

Also, he's apparently a wizard who can bind himself to the ceiling while blind and bleeding to death, so that's fun.

To add my two cents to you saying Tengan chose his death to remember that the monitors only wake up the person who's closest to the monitors, which in this case was Gozu, which in turn means that who lives/dies were completely up to chance (which is yet another strike against Tengan since this means that the one guy he didn't want dead could've wounded up dead via circumstances that he would have no clue of until later on, assuming if the kill-happy branch leaders didn't get to him first that is).

As for Gozu's code is the only one that was the least restrictive, with Tengan being the MM I 'can only assume he planned to keep Gozu around after the other leaders get wiped out which is why he got such an easy code in the first place.

BAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE

Of all the wasted non-characters in DR3, he was the best one.

BandaiWasRobbed

We never see his face, but then again...some things are better left unknown.

If you take a look at the official concept art, you can actually see how he looks under his mask.

http://danganronpa.wikia.com/wiki/Gallery:Great_Gozu?file=Great_Gozu%27s_official_design.png

God dammit, first the Imposter and now Gozu? Can't DR3 have an ounce of integrity without having half-assed fanservice?

Concept art is a little different though.

But I mean, it's concept art... maybe they were planning to show his face but then Joe put some sense into their heads that maybe it wasn't a good idea.

Joe was then fired, but his decision stuck.

Well he's a wrestler who's face can't be seen, just like how John Cena, also a wrestler, can't be seen

Genuinely sucks that his only purpose was, like everything that is muscular in DR, to straight up die. I dig the masked wrestler archetype when it shows up in anime, and he sure as shit mirrored that.

He could have been a good character, but eh, he opposed the trash trio so he had to die mega early.

The original Bro(yeah Kazuichi can choke on a shoe)
Of course, no depth, no growth, no development. But scene-by-scene personality and enjoyability are a very important part of a character, and in that he's the best fucking thing in DR3 by far besides the dub as a whole(specially Junko), he's a immediate fucking badass, a extremely powerful combatant, and a likable dude. He had a lot of potential to become a widespread fan favorite if he was just given more scenes and character depth, hell, with the little time he's appeared people still look back on him fondly, and there aren't many things in Danganronpa 3 that you can say that about.
Unfortunately, he was overpowered, too good to live and never served a greater purpose. If DR3 was good and not a fake battle shonen with pretenses of mystery, he still wouldn't have lived long, because everyone else would've been better developed too, but if DR3 has to stay the way it is and i can only make one single change, fuck yeah i'd have Great Gozu destroying everything with his mighty elbows.

nice baraman

Great Gozu was really nice and a fun enough character....and that's it. Gozu, like Bandai/Miaya/Izayoi suffers from a lack of depth and background to his character. Because of this, I can't really care about his actions since I don't know his motivations for why he does the things that he does. He is nice, but that doesn't equal to a good character if you're not interesting.

BandaiWasRobbed

Brozu

Definitely a great character but I can see how his death was needed for the plot to move along.

Why do we have Character Discussions for DR3 characters again when pretty much all of them are reduced to either "they were ok, if only they were in a different show" or "they are absolute pieces of trash, KILL IT WITH FIRE >:("

Because people's opinions will differ, just look at the Ruruka thread

Ok, I will give you that. Some of them may be worth discussing (like Juzo and Ruruka), my biggest point here is why are we discussing non-characters like Miaya, Gozu and Bandai, which bring forward no discussion whatsoever.

One of my favorites from the series just because he's so badass. A true bro. Love this guy.

I honestly feel guilty that despite really liking Gozu, I kinda felt nothing towards his death because I was still so relieved that Asahina wasn't dead.

Gozu was a buff, nice guy...that's about it. He's nice, what else can you say. He's a character with wasted potential.

We barely get to know much else of him. We don't even get to see his real face, what's up with that?

I really liked him when he was alive. I wish what happened to him didn't happen.

The main takeaway from this character seemed to be the reveal of the fact that Naegi's actions during DR1 did actually touch the hearts and minds of some in the Future Foundation, if only a minority.

It was nice to see that the Future Foundation weren't all dicks; there were some true, competent leaders like Gozu in the mix too. It's worth noting that he didn't protect Naegi because he thought he was innocent. He protected Naegi because he thought he should have a fair trial, rather than outright execution by Juzo and Munakata.

Unfortunately being the bara character has never paid off during any killing game, and this one is no exception.

Also I love his character design, its tied with Seiko as my favourite DR3 character design

Still my favorite design, inevitably hurt as a character due to V3's horrid presentation but still salvageable.

EDIT: Oh, and he was one of the few DR3 characters who REALLY got done dirty, absolutely no appearance in any other material, lol.

Character Discussion #55 - Ryota Mitarai (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Ryota Mitarai, Ultimate Plot Device.

I feel bad for this fictional character, because he existed solely to give DR3 a mechanic through which Junko could shove people into despair within the back end of a 12-episode series. He was absolutely his talent first to the writers, and a character second.

And the worst part is, he could have been a great character. A good man, who somehow made the Tragedy possible and was forced to live with that knowledge? What a fantastic basis for his Future arc character, and a jumping point for the position he takes at the end! But they never really capitalize on what they'd begun. In the Despair arc, he's just constantly animating in virtually every scene he's in. The Imposter literally replaces his relevance in any other scene. And in the Future arc, where he could be (and should have been) so much deeper? His interactions are limited to looking afraid, gripping his phone tightly, or asking obvious questions for the audience's sake.

To go from "I used to always be afraid, and am still always afraid" to "I'm going to aggressively take command of an army, tell them to kill people without hesitation, and alter the world" required some intermediary steps. But as soon as he hears the reasoning for the Future arc Killing Game, he goes full Fearless Leader. Where the hell was that inner strength at literally any other time? He went from 0 to 100 in a single episode.

And then, for a bonus round, reverts right back for the confrontation with the 77th class.

He ended up little more than a plot device that got lines, and that's a shame. Even putting aside the plot device itself (hypnotic anime?) Ryota could have been so much more. But wasn't.

I think Mitarai's change of mind when confronted with the 77th class is the only thing he does that actually makes sense. He's probably thinking "those guys defeated my brainwashed ex-Ultimates easily and I don't got a brainwash video on hand. I better pretend I changed my mind or I'm going to die horribly." I know that's not what they're going for, but I can totally forgive him for wimping out in the face of certain death.

Oh, it completely fits his character. It just also highlights how out of character his actions had been for the prior episode.

Oh boy, I'm stepping into a landmine here. Expected tho, we're talking about my least favorite character in the entire series.

I'll still give credit to some ideas here : making him appear in the Future arc while making the Imposter stand as him in the Despair arc is a good way to set up intrigue, especially when it was advertised this way. Trying to make entertainment to others with their talent was already done with Yamada in his FTE, but still touching in a way.... I guess.

For me, the most insulting thing about Tengan wasn't even his motives or his plan itself, but the fact that it all centered on Mitarai himself, mostly about him being the hero of hope or something. Shafting aside what could've been more interesting characters like Bandai, Gozu, Gekkogahara all in favor of an uninteresting and already-done-archetype anime NEET like Mitarai was clearly not enjoyable.

I said that Mitarai was an already-done-before archetype. When you take a step back, he shares a lot of similarities with Fujisaki and his backstory (minus the whole crossdressing /Otoko no ko thing) : both bullied for different reasons, how they coped (programming and the gender norms thing VS anime and wanting personally to make anime for others) , how they felt weak, etc. Difference is that Fujisaki made something positive out of it (AIs and NWP) and wanted to grow stronger from it all. Mitarai seems more selfish due to the fact that he makes it sound like an obligation to be that obsessive otaku who wants to be the hero of hope after being in 12 episodes of doing nothing, and gets this moment to shine after Tengan gives him that push.

This is an story with a really huge cast, so the last thing you want is the creator having favorites and having a short hand of characters having the most screentime, and you would prefer to have something more equitable for everyone. After Episode 5 of Zetsubou-hen, Mitarai takes over almost the entirety of the arc along with Junko and robs the rest of the supposed characters of the arc 77th class of any valuable screentime, as he doesn't gain any depth during this time, aside from popping up like an audience self-insert wraping the entire story around him (video made thanks to his techniques in Despair, this same video being fondamental in Future, he becomes then the main threat in Hope) who suddenly becomes the reason for everyone's death in this series, which is laughably atrocious. We're supposed to actually sympathise with him (and who wouldn't sympathise with such a cutie who loooooves anime of course) due to the shit he's been put through in the past and that he couldn't have spoken anything of it later on, yet he still brainwashes those soldiers, telling them to do "whatever it takes by any means necessary", gets a person shot by a result, and then tries to brainwash an entire planet.

Then comes the biggest kicker of all : he's forgiven for all the shit he pulled, despite being involved in Junko's shit waaay longer than anyone who isn't named Mukuro or Matsuda, like, he's sad, cries and gets a frickin' hug, and then have friends he never actually wanted, so... that makes it good ? (keep in mind that there were people like Sakakura who were less involved with Junko, and yet it was needed that the narrative kills him so that some people goes and say "hey, he maybe wasn't THAT bad"). Nope, Kodaka. I ain't cutting this shit out at all, and the fact that you tried to make him the sole survivor of the new cast (since apparently Munakata was supposed to bite it and even more insultingly to just protect Naegi) is astoundingly meh in my eyes.

URGH, I tried to give him a chance by rewatching it and maaaybe if he was any fun I could go on it, but fuuuuuuck this guy so much. I maintain that without him DR3 would prolly be way less of a mess.

Oh boy... this is gonna get divisive.

I liked Ryota for the first half of DR3 as a series. A meek albeit rational character compared to all the nutty people in the future foundation. His relationship with the Ultimate Imposter was very well written and a pretty cute, albeit somewhat toxic relationship.

Then like many others, he encountered Junko and everything took a big nosedive. After a certain point, the Despair arc kinda became the Ryota show and it really wasn't all that enjoyable. His talent was super OP and really hurt the SDR2 kid's narrative cause brainwashing is really boring and it handwaved them of any crimes they committed while part of the remnants of despair.

To make matters worse not only does he hurt the SDR2 kids story, he's also the main reason as to why the killing game in future happens which is really stupid cause Tengan could have easily just stolen the hope video for himself. Ryota really didn't have to be there and hosting an entire killing game solely for the purpose to break down one person enough to brainwash the planet is just... ugh. Doesn't help that he doesn't get any sort of punishment for attempting to go through the plan. He gets to travel back to the island with the SDR2 kids free of charge.

It's a shame because Ryota does start off great during the first half but he became little more than a plot device towards the end and a poorly written one at that.

This dude is a piece of shit to me. I can't imagine a lot of people are going to sing praises about these characters, but we can at least look into why. I'll save the stupid plotholes of why the anime doesn't work for Tengan (who we already talked about) and Junko, but I still find this character pretty annoying.

He's a darker take on someone like Chihiro or Mikan and he clearly had Junko take advantage of his animation work for her own devices. Someone who feels like they can't stand up to anyone. That's fine for a character, but what doesn't work about Ryota is that the narrative acts like he's a completely understandable human being even though he's disgustingly complacent. Sure, Tengan is responsible for the killing game, but could Ryota not simply speak up at any point during the killing game? Even if you want to argue he's afraid of being suspected, all he'd have to do is show the video that Tengan sends him to clear up any doubt since he was literally sent proof of who the mastermind was. Instead, he just complains and whines about his own issues, decides to forcibly brainwash Asahina, which indirectly results in her getting shot, does the same to a group of soldiers and needlessly endangers both their lives and the lives of the people he orders them to stop because he wants to forcibly brainwash, and everyone decides to overlook this because he didn't have any friends. It just felt like a gigantic middle finger to me.

He might not have wanted to work with Junko, but he stuck around way too long despite the obvious red flags, he chooses not to do anything about the fact that the killing game being put in motion with his anime is working (when he could have put a stop to it), and when he does, he just endangers more lives and everyone completely ignores all of this and they just act like nothing happens. He's an absolutely disgusting character and the fact that they try to revolve it around a big friendship at the moment (which makes even less sense when you just told us the DR 2 crew was brainwashed, thereby making them essentially willess zombies doing everything not out of choice, meaning the idea that they have to "atone" and that they're somehow in the same situation as Ryota makes absolutely no sense…) just makes it all worse.

That's not even bringing up the fact that they eat up a lot of screentime on this guy for a watered down, much more clumsily handled version of Chihiro. I don't think a character necessarily needs to have a lot of screentime to be handled well (one of the few DR3 characters I'll be praising is one who didn't get much), but if you are going to give them a lot, there has to be more payoff for it. It just feels like waste when you look back at people like Miaya, Gozu, Bandai, Izayoi, and so on. I think they capture the depression aspect and the fear and insecurity part of Ryota well, but when you have characters like this, they're typically paired with being self destructive, so their pain doesn't affect others, but is still hard to cope with. Chihiro is like this, and he copes with his programming, by hiding his identity, and his arc focuses around breaking out of this and improving himself. Mikan is insecure and uses her profession as a means of coping since she can feel she has control over the situation. She absolutely refuses to let any of her sick friends die, and the only reason she even killed was because she remembered the ultimate despair plan and remembered everything with the brainwashing (god the brainwashing thing is so stupid…Not that Junko manipulating everyone wasn't a stretch, but this was a shitty way to justify it.)

But Ryota? He's insecure and all, but Dr3 makes it much harder to sympathize with him when you see that his decisions not to stand up and change affect other people and even cost them their lives. With the others, it's a mostly internal battle, so it doesn't mesh well and it makes it even more disgusting when you see he's forgiven for everything by the end just because he didn't have friends and because he cried. Do we really need to continue the "hope themed terrorist" ending character that decides to do something major at the end of the story? (Nagito tries to kill everyone but the traitor, Ryota here decides to try and brainwash the world, Robo Naegi decides to blow the school up)

I agree with your points, but iirc didn't Mitarai only get the video of Tengan confessing to be the mastermind after they got the bracelets off?

It's been a bit since I've watched DR3 and I sure as hell am not touching it again anytime soon though so I may be wrong.

That's true, Tengan doesn't send the video to Mitarai til after the Killing Game concludes.

He does toward the end, but he would still have to know what's causing the killings, meaning he could have saved everyone at the start but chose to stay silent.

Toward the end, he had no reason to lash out and could have just used the video since Tengan have all the proof, and that's all he'd have to do instead of being the hope terrorist.

I can cope with some of your points, but here is one question though

How was he supposed to know Junko was a monster from the very first time they met? Beacuse really, you can't really tell from Junko's design that she will be a dangerous threat, so working with her unwantedly but still not suspecting much harm seems like something that isn't much his fault, he didn't even know about her killing game with the reserve course students before it was too late, and when he did, Junko made it pretty clear that he can choose to quit and properly report her, but if he did that, she would make the 77th crew go through a real killing game.

I never said he should have been a threat, but it's not like she was subtle after meeting, and her holding up the photo and doing all that or threatening to kill your classmates means nothing when you make her a brainwashing device for her to ruin everyone anyway. She literally tells him what she plans on doing with it.

Even if you wanted to say that he'd be afraid of the threat of Mukuro, Junko really took over since she mentions she learns how to do everything through watching him and does most of it herself, meaning there's not even much reason to keep him around in that scene.

One of the things I will never forgive DR3 for is near-totally butchering Junko as both a character and a villain

Makes it really hard to believe she was able to destroy the world by her own if it weren't for her being obviously evil and everyone else too braindead to notice her

I actually think Junko should be someone who greets everyone with something like "My plan to destroy the world is proceeding perfectly, just a matter of time before everyone is dead!' and people just think she's crazy even though she's telling the truth. She'd obviously be exceptional at actually keeping her involvement secret. Instead she appears to be someone who randomly throws a grenade in someone's face because she's bored.

I don't know it's just me, but he totaly feels like someone's self-insert.

Takes over Despair Arc's spotlight, the Final Killing Game in the Future Arc is revealed to be all for him to do something, and becomes the main villain in Hope Arc
Adding to the first point, makes the entirety of Danganronpa 3, nope, the entire Hope's Peak saga about him despite not being introduced at all back in prior titles
He's actually a part of the main cast all along, is instantly accepted and forgiven by Class 77 even when his techniques caused them to do monstrous crimes in the first place
Personally, in order to mitigate my... less-than-favorable feelings towards this anime (but that's for another topic), I'd like think of it as Mitarai's self-insert fanfic. Since there were scenes of him working on the Despair Arc's OP sequence, it kinda makes sense that a series that made a lot of characters OOC, retconned/revised more than a few plot points, and positioned him as the Most Important Person in the entire saga. Hell, the Hope Arc could be easily construed as him succeeding.

MITARAI FUCKING SUCKS
The idea of Mitarai isn't a very good one. I say that there's no such thing as a bad concept, only a poorly executed one, and that certain concepts are easier to get right, and goddamnit isn't Mitarai the most extreme hard mode of concepts to write properly. DR3 was supposed to be about class 77 and the end of the Hope's Peak saga, but Mitarai is a walking plot device with literally the most overpowered talent of the entire franchise.
Danganronpa constantly walks the border between insanely stupid and enjoyably crazy, "brainwashing anime is the reason for everything" is a faceplant on the stupid side. It's not like his character is much better, he's not enjoyable in a scene-by-scene basis specially when you have the much better dub Junko right there by his side to bring more life to the scene than he ever could to make him look even worse.
Danganronpa 3 is clumsily made, and when you look at the central pillars of the story, that becomes clear as day. Tengan and Ryota, the two most important characters, are also the worst of the entire franchise. Whodathunkit.

He did more than most DR3 characters and he has a cool talent, but meh.

I'd probably like him a lot more if he wasn't in DR3, honestly. There's something about DR3's writing that turns him from "a shy, frail boy who loves anime and knows brainwashing techniques" into "an asocial guy who has a talent so broken that it's somehow the reason for everything in the entire anime". So meh.

I could go into detail on why he's underwhelming, but a few people on here hate Ryota more than Adult H, so I guess I'll just wait for the essays of salt.

Tbf I don't think there can be worse than Adult H.... but again that adult barely qualifies as a character, so.... xD

Gotta be honest, I don't care how terrible a character he is, I love Ryota anyway. His early appearances in Despair arc were great, I adore his friendship with Ultimate Imposter, and he was the only moderately interesting character in Future arc who wasn't also a massive jerk.

Did he take up way too much screentime towards the end? Yeah, I suppose so, though it was clear long before then that the DR2 kids weren't getting developed anyway, and he and Asahina were literally the only Future arc characters I rooted for. So meh, it didn't bother me.

Was he a waste of a potentially really compelling character who got thrown into the background for most of Future and then suddenly started making decisions seemingly as the plot demands? Yep, won't argue there.

Did his presence in fact screw up most of DR3's plot until it was mostly nonsense for a variety of reasons? No doubt.

Was it really weird that he joined the DR2 kids despite being responsible for everything and not knowing any them? Certainly.

Did he bring with him the worst retcon ever in the form of the brainwashing videos? God, I hate the brainwashing videos.

And yet he's still my favorite DR3 character. It's like enjoying something you objectively know is pretty terrible. Maybe you can't intellectually explain what's so great about it and if you can it's all based on purely subjective taste, but in your heart you know why you like it. You know exactly why.

It's because I really like adorable and pathetic boys.

Ryota is quite possibly the worst male character and second worst character in the entire series behind Akane. Yes, I hate Ryota more than characters like Tengan and Haiji even!

What makes Ryota so hilariously pathetic as a character was that he managed to impress me despite how low my expectations for his character were already from the first half of the anime. I was not a fan of his wimpy personality because, unlike Chihiro who displayed acts of courage and bravery, Ryota just sits around and mopes throughout the game. Actually, let's take the time to see what Ryota did in the Future Arc up until episode 12:

Episode 1: Shows up late to the meeting which no one bothers to question him on.

Episode 2: Tries to talk down Juzo, which angers him and triggers Bandai's death. This scene mainly focuses on Juzo though as anyone could have replaced Ryota in this situation.

Episode 3: Stays with Tengan and Kirigiri

Episode 4: Stays with Kirigiri and Kizakura

Episode 5: Stays with Kirigiri and Kizakura

Episode 6: Stays with Kirigiri, Kizakura, and Ruruka

Episode 7: The Another Episode Episode

Episode 8: Stays with Kirigiri

Episode 9: Stays with Kirigiri, Asahina, and Makoto

Episode 10: Spends most of the episode off screen with Kirigiri and Asahina

Episode 11: Stays with Kirigiri, Makoto, Asahina, and Munakata

Notice how most of these episodes Mitarai does absolutely nothing! All that time that could be used to build up his motivation revealed in episode 12 or his backstory with Junko was wasted instead for him just screaming and barfing. This eliminates any possible tension to his reveal because, by that point, I was completely apathetic to his character in the Future Arc.

So to summarize the first half of the anime: I could not care less about Ryota's character.

Now how about Ryota's role in the Despair Arc? Garbage! I hate how awkwardly he was introduced into the story and was written in like a self insert. Wow! Ryota is actually part of the DR2 cast?! That came completely out of nowhere! Wow! Ryota is responsible for the Tragedy and is the instigator of the entire series?! Who needs Junko anyways right?! Let's throw her manipulative personality out the window! But, if I had anything positive to say about this it's that the Imposter gets more time to shine! Now let's move on to what is generally considered to be the worst moment in the entire series: the Despair brainwashing. I hate how not only at this point Ryota pretty much steals the spotlight from the DR2 cast, the cast that the anime promoted on focusing on in the Despair Arc, but that Ryota doesn't get blamed for being partly responsible in ending the world. This lack of consequence for actions is a massive pet peeve with me and is why I can't stand characters like Hiyoko and Maki. But more on that later.

So to summarize the entire Despair Arc: I still found Ryota to be as uninteresting as ever, but now he drags down the quality of the Despair Arc and is responsible for ruining the Remnants of Despair plot.

Finally I am going to talk about Future Arc Episode 12 and Hope Arc, the most hated episodes of the series arguably and how each of these episodes illustrate my hatred for Ryota.

In episode 12 we learn that Tengan is the mastermind of the final killing game(and a shitty mastermind at that) and find out that Tengan's motivations and the entire killing game revolve around Ryota. As I have mentioned before, I hated how Ryota was written like a self-insert and that he took up way too much screen time in an anime where it is essential to give an fair balance of screen time to each of the character. So seeing Ryota get the spotlight yet again was absolutely infuriating and made the killing game such a disappointment on top of the plot holes with Tengan's plan.

Now we reach Hope Arc: the thing I hate the most in the entire series and has so many problems layered in it. Ryota is an absolute writing mess in this episode and all of his actions and the circumstances of it all are a huge insult to his character. Of course I am talking about Ryota's plan and the aftermath of it all. Ryota gives up to the DR2 class not because what he is doing is wrong and how his view of "hope" is ultimately problematic, it's because he gets to be welcomed with the other students again. This decision not only makes look selfish, but also makes him not learn a single thing from all of this. And guess what? Ryota is forgiven for all of his crimes and suffers no repercussion! Ryota suffers nothing for trying to brainwash the entire world, ordering a group of soldiers to kill the survivors of the last killing game, or being part of Junko's plan. Nope he just rides off into the sunset with his classmates! Yay!

Ryota Mitarai is a horribly written and unlikable character. He makes a lot of terrible choices and neither learns from it nor does he suffer from it. And no amount of "ooohh I had a thought childhood" can make up for his disgusting decisions and how the anime wants you to sympathize with him despite all the possible ways he could have prevented disaster from happening.

I want to discuss the idea that Mitarai is a self-insert. I too suspect that but if he is, he's an insult to self-insert characters in general. Even very bad self-insert characters tend to be a walking miracle and it's at least understandable that if you're starring yourself then you'd want yourself to be totally awesome. Further this awesomeness at least partially explains why such a character would invariably become the center of the universe and loved by everyone. After all, why wouldn't everyone else love someone who is a walking miracle?

Izuru would be a far better example of self-insert. I don't find anything likeable about him, but at least when you're the supreme being of DR you get to play by your own rules so he's free to do whatever crazy things he feels like doing without any plot bailout, because nobody can actually stop him.

Mitarai, however, lacks the awesome part of the self-insert that makes them somewhat redeemable. He's got a profile fit for a character that dies in the first murder case and yet he's at least a partial lead character. Even Makoto has his charm and luck that can partially explain why he become an important guy. For the vast majority of DR3 you don't even have a reason to believe Mitarai would have plot bailout on his side despite his fairly prominent role. I can see Kyoko surviving by the virtue of being Makoto's trophy wife, but Mitarai doesn't even have that!

I wanted him to just shut up, give others some air time. Please. Like, he was just on the screen so much. too much.

The fact that him and Monaka were forgiven so easily makes me sick.

Despite all the odds, he is my most hated character in the entire series, made worse in that he basically was handed a gift-wrapped happy ending (I know it's a lifetime in exile, but when the 16 of them are sailing off into the sunset on a party boat, it sure didn't feel like they were that upset about it). I said before that Nagito didn't deserve the happy ending, but he sure does compared to Mitarai.

He is a coward, even more so than Juzo, who was suckered in by a couple of pretty girls and ended up destroying the world. He then meandered around watching his co-workers and friends dying all while complaining constantly. He is just the Ultimate Frustration, and it's honestly very poor writing that a character so important to all the events in the series was added in as an afterthought.

In a way, he represents everything wrong with DR3. He is the cause of the stupid retcon with the DR2 cast, he is the plot device that ruined Junko and Mukuro as villains, he is the reason that far more interesting characters in personality and design die in the pointless Future Foundation Killing Game. DR3 revolves around him and as a result of that DR3 is the blot on the series that ruins the original trilogy. He has all the elements of an awful god mode self insert that is just so much more important than all the other characters and all the characters you like now like him (Marie in Persona 4 Golden, Alice in the Resident Evil movies). Only he is much, much worse.

The most annoying thing for me personally though? V3 Ending + Theory Crafting

I loved the way they handled the brainwashing video for Makoto and thought if that much crafting was done I can get why the suicide videos would work.

That's the only thing I liked about Plot Device.

After that, it's literally "brainwashing" and completely removes agency from any character. You can't hate nor love a character that's involved in that shit. It's just there, it's lazy and removes any sort of point you're trying to make with this.

I didnt really care for him, and his behavior at the end of future and hope arc made me really dislike him.

I still wonder to this day if Mitarai was Kodaka's self insert.

Either way, I've never seen a character have so many ups and downs in character development than Mitarai. First you feel bad for him, than he becomes a selfish asshole, then you are worried about him being taken in by Junko, then he ruins everything in Side Despair, then he saves everything in Side Despair, ruins everything in Side Future, and finally saves everything in Side Hope.

What a mess, but he's still in the upper tier of DR3 characters, not that that says much.

I feel like the entirety of his character and relevance to the plot was just made during an elevator pitch like

"Woah dude......what if we added an ultimate animator.......TO THE ANIME!!!!! WOULDN'T THAT BE SO META????"

Character Discussion #56 - Sonosuke Izayoi (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


This can be said for 90% of DR3 characters but cool concept, cool design and awful execution and screentime.

Jesus Christ we still have 8 DR3 characters to go, urrrrrghhhh

IT'S FINALLY MY TIME TO SHINE!

Okay, so I'd first like to acknowledge the biggest character flaw people find with Izayoi - that he has no characterization whatsoever and that he's just an edgelord boytoy for Ruruka. While that's one way to interpret him, I see him in a different light.

Izayoi is by nature a protector - it's evident throughout DR3, and his battle with Seiko for Ruruka's sake comes to mind. Hell, even the name "Sonosuke" roughly translates to "helper of all". He is shown to be very loyal to the one he loves, a point I'll discuss later. However, just because he is loyal to Ruruka does not necessarily mean that she is the only importance to his life. According to the wikia, Izayoi opened up a store during his second year at the Academy, to create weapons for practical and collection purposes. In Danganronpa V3's Ultimate Talent Development (or whatever it's called, the board game) the character has the opportunity to interact with Izayoi, and he's shown to be willing to teach you more about his trade. It's evident that he cares a lot about his profession as a blacksmith, and that he uses his talent to help others besides Ruruka. He wouldn't be the leader of Future Foundation Branch 9 if that wasn't true.

If there was a single word to describe Sonosuke, it'd be loyalty. Extreme loyalty, one might say. And the loyalty he has to his lover makes him okay with the fate he suffered, being murdered by his own girlfriend. Now while I won't get into more details about the heinous, incomprehensibly evil Ruruka, I do want to discuss how this loyalty makes up Izayoi's character. Izayoi is willing to defend Ruruka against Seiko during the events of DR3, and he sides with her throughout the whole anime. However, could this loyalty be an effect of Ruruka's sweets?

Izayoi and Ruruka were shown to be together even as children, where she continuously fed him her sweets. These sweets were seen to have various effects during DR3. This means that for numerous years, Ruruka has been feeding Izayoi addictive sweets that could have possibly induced mind-control like symptoms (which if so, is most likely deliberate on Ruruka's part). Is it possible that he has become this loyal to Ruruka not by his own will, but because of years of eating her sweets? After all, if your significant other (no matter how much you are in love with them) stabbed you, would you not defend yourself or feel anger? There is no conceivable way that any human who was being slowly, agonizingly poisoned to death wouldn't feel any anger towards their murderer...unless they were under their control.

I hope you enjoyed this little ramble in defense of my sweet husbando, Sonosuke Izayoi. I know he didn't do all that much, but he's still very very precious to me, and he will forever be /u/Tobi387
 ‘s #1 husbando.

And also come on, he's hot as fuck. You have to agree with me on that like hot damn Sonosexy

C O N S E N T

I still think the show was just trying to present Izayoi as super loyal/ sacrificial rather than brainwashed, but the brainwashing thing is a cool idea, it would at least give better explanation of his death. I always thought Ruruka's reason for killing him was dumb as shit, but if she were brainwashing him with candy then she was probably thinking that she'd run out of the brainwashing candy if they stayed trapped there too long, and decided to kill him before the brainwashing wore off.

edit: typo

I also agree with this theory ever since Who Killed Cock Robin revealed Ruruka's sweets had a mental effect on her victims since it would give us a reason as to his rather obsessive attraction with Ruruka.

It adds a layer of just how disturbing the relationship was since this meant Izayoi mentally never had the chance to grow up or have really any independent thought separate from what Ruruka wanted, basically him being conditioned to be nothing but the perfect boyfriend, which in Ruruka's case was: One who's only drive was to protect her and also only loyal to her.

Kinda like her own human guard dog.

My friend had a similar brainwashing theory, and though I think that's really interesting in and of itself, I think "tragic loyalty" like that kind of appeals to me more? That sounded less strange in my head.

Uh yeah, basically, I totally agree, and surprisingly someone else mentioned a similar theory, but I never would have gotten to that myself.

Either way, Ruruka was always the villain of the two.

He was cool. If there was any character who was robbed of characterization in DR3 it's him.

Huge waste of potential but I did like what we got.

Why does a blacksmith have the ability to use ninja weapons (of which he has a seemingly unlimited supply) effectively?

Also, how is he so skilled at making and hiding dozens of traps?

Maybe he got those skills during the tragedy and he was just an edgelord threatening people with knives while still in school.

I really wish they did more with the blacksmith part of his talent over the unrealistic super combat skills.

I really wish they did more with his character in general, actually. He's got my favorite design and that's about it for noteworthy stuff.

Poor, poor Izayoi.
Izayoi is part of Ruruka, and virtually essential in her characterization, since he's always there to serve as an example. Example of how far her paranoia can go, when she killed him, example of how little she's confident on herself, when she keeps offering him candy.
He could've served a purpose similar to Peko, as a tool for Ruruka's growth and development, but Ruruka sucks as well, and he dies a meaningless death, so he falls flat too. It's 13 episodes, so i don't think he would ever be the best of characters, as Ruruka needs the development more than a secondary like him. With that said, he already has the basic elements, kickass design, kickass talent, kickass fighting abilities which were used fairly well. The problem was the entire plot surrounding his and Ruruka's existence. Had he been used as development for Ruruka and given a few more lines, he could've gotten a sizable and loyal following like Peko has. Instead, he's doomed to the "there are dozens of us" fate that Ruruka also suffers from.

I mean... he was... well... uh... he was... there. He had a presence and made appearances ._.

Already better than Bandai

Pretty much. The only thing he had going for him was dying first, looking really fucking goofy, and being voiced by the same woman who voices a bunch a twee, moe~ little girls. I think ._.

The only thing he had going for him was dying first

He didn't even die first, so that's one less thing he had going for him.

Oh yeaaah, that'a right. Welp, another cross mark for you Bandai!

What can you really say about him? He's got a kickass talent and cool design, but they didn't do anything with him at all beyond a few fight scenes, which visually were kinda cool, but it just felt like a huge waste. He doesn't get to have anything to his character beyond being Ruruka's boyfriend and hell, even when he's betrayed by her and dies, he's unnaturally cool with it and that's it.

With someone like Peko, we were able to see just how unhealthy her way of thinking was, to the point where she sees herself as nothing more than a servant and tool to Fuyuhiko, and it helps create conflict between the two in a way that still lets their love for each other come through. They both care about the other enough where they're willing to die, but it comes to a tragic conclusion when you see that both are trying to misdirect the class trial to save the other.

It's not just a case of "I love Fuyuhiko" but we see that added dimension to Peko that helps round her out more. Even Peko was kinda one note since she largely existed for this one twist and unfortunately is mostly a springboard for Fuyuhiko's character, but they were at least wise enough to create a dimension that goes beyond her just existing as Fuyuhiko's love interest/childhood friend. Izayoi is just around Ruruka all the time, and we can only guess from the fact that they're together since childhood that that means they care about each other, but nothing onscreen really helps it come together, so when Ruruka betrays him out of her own fears, we don't have that same satisfying conclusion because we haven't established anything about Izayoi's view of the relationship.

At least he said dewicious, and even though it may have been one of the single dumbest lines in the anime, he somehow made it work and still be badass.

Dewicious, babe.

I will kill you where you stand. For love and dewicious sweets!

Most people have already said what has been said, but can I just say that the decision to introduce Ruruka's brainwashing candy was done solely to have the viewers question the nature of Izayoi's relationship with her, when anyone who applies even 10 seconds of logical thinking can tell that their relationship was genuine and it was just so sloppy and out of nowhere and dumb and god i hate this show

Well, at least he was cute.

Easily one of the best designs in DR. Too bad he sucked as a character.

He shoulda dumped ruruka when he had the chance.

Ruruka didn't fucking deserve him.

Once again, we have a character with relatively little character. Last time, I swear, the rest of the cast isn't always great but they would be a bit harder to replace with a cardboard cutout than Izayoi, Bandai, Gozu, or Miaya.

Izayoi follows Ruruka around pretty much everywhere. Apart from the fight with Seiko and a short stint afterward he's never seen without her. Given that Ruruka and Seiko had entire episodes dedicated to their relationship, with him being present almost whenever Ruruka was on screen, it's not really a problem of Izayoi not getting enough screen time so much as it never being put to use. It seems like he's actively meant to not care about Seiko as well, given how fast he turns on her when she's accused. He never really speaks either, apart from a few seemingly meaningless comments about dewicious sweets. He could basically be replaced with a guard dog with no discernible difference as far as DR3 is concerned, which isn't great when he's meant to be an ultimate, someone with a colorful personality and temperament appropriate to their talent (and an ultimate whose talent should be an extremely useful one at that).

If I were writing him, I would've given him more of a place in the relationship between Seiko and Ruruka, but as it stands he doesn't seem to have any relation with Seiko apart from being in proximity to Ruruka when she interacts with her. His protectiveness of Ruruka seems sensible enough, there's several other "bodyguard crush" type relationships in Dangan Ronpa (perhaps too many), but it's a bit of a waste having another character who's basically just a less interesting Mukuro or Pekoyama.

All that said, what do we know about him? As mentioned above, he's very protective of Ruruka, and seems absolutely loyal to her to the extent of not being mad at her deciding to off him. We know he loves Ruruka's candy, or at least he loves Ruruka enough to eat it (though most likely he likes the candy itself as well, she is the Ultimate Confectioner after all). We know he has knives for days, which he presumably makes but we don't really see him forging or hear him talk about making... We know he's probably good at fighting, but our only metric for that is against Seiko who we never see fighting anyone besides him, so it's a bit hard to tell, sort of like measuring distance by an arbitrary metric like strands of spaghetti.

And he's also the first ninja in Danganronpa, so that's cool I guess...

SHSL Boyfriend. Deserved better than that rotten bitch

Awesome character design, extremely lackluster character. He was essentially a plot device for Ruruka since he all of his depth and motivation revolves around her. Lame.

my first thought about him was: "he looks a lot like Kenny from South Park". somebody also?

also he was surname with Sakuya Izayoi from Touhou, nice

Um, he looks like Vash the Stampede. That's...about it?

I really liked him in DR3. Probably one of my favorites of the cast. Great design and concept, but not well executed. He was basically a stepping stone for Ruruka's character development.

Dewicious was the only thing I liked about him.

It occurs to me that DR3 would have been far more interesting if it wasn't a Killing Game. The characters were fine in concept and great in design, but the Killing Game environment without the peaceful events in between meant that half of the characters were just redcoats to be killed off and the other half were assholes who ruined everything (Seiko is the only exception IMO, and I'm sure that's why the decision was made to make her the last DR3 character to talk about).

By taking DR3 out of the Killing Game and instead doing a spin-off story of FF versus some Remnants of Despair would have maybe allowed us to get attached to characters and see the ones we hate get more positive times to shine in action as actual leaders. You can still have deaths (See: Despair Girls), but the Killing Game was a waste here.

Another option to fix DR3 would have been to make the second half of the anime the origin story of the new DR3 characters and NOT make it about the DR2 characters and the Despair sisters. It basically was half the time anyway so may as well go all out with it. Would have fixed two big issues that people have with DR3 immediately: the retcons/ruining of the established characters and the minimal development of the new characters.

This isn't really commenting on Sonosuke himself I realise, but there's just so little to talk about. He's almost just an accessory to Ruruka (A widely hated character) and his main character traits seem to be "I like candy" and "I protect my girl". I will say that of all the deaths in DR3, his is a contender for the most pointless.

I don't know why but the whole blacksmith with ninja skills I feel has been done before and recently to boot. When I saw Izayoi all I thought was "Eh, it's been done."

Who?

Youre really going to ask that when your name is "GilARCHER"?

Recent Fates look like trash to me, i only liked /Zero.
It's not even the origin of my name

Point still stands. Izayoi is basically EMIYA. There are worse characters to be ripping off but still

Emiya is not a blacksmith.

Yes he is? Archer's title is literally "The Blacksmith Heroic Spirit", his entire powerset is about creating weapons.

Is it?That's not said in the anime i watched. He's just some archer who makes weapons. He doesn't feel like a blacksmith. Well, neither does Izayoi most of the time, but at least with him i know that he made his weapons with smithing. Emiya uses magic. It's not like the "uses lots of weapons" concept would ever be an original one. Tenten from Naruto exists.
Both of them aren't very good characters tbh

Character Discussion #57 - Kyoko Kirigiri (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


It makes me sad that Kirigiri got an influx of hate over poor writing decisions made by DR3 to try and maximize drama cheaply by faking her death, and making her come back in the most cop out convoluted way.

I feel Kirigiri has always been a controversial character where you'll see people scream she's either a Mary Sue or boring or flat compared to fans of hers, and DR3 just drew more attention to that via her cop out death. Also, she was really out of focus for DR3.

Still love her to bits though, best detective ♥

people scream she's either a Mary Sue or boring or flat

I genuinally thought I was only one who thinks that.

Same, I told my friends that she was genuinely one of my least favorite parts of DGR1. The worst part imo is probably when (I might be remembering this wrong so feel free to correct me) she gets mad at you for not treating her like friend and then soon after risks your life to try and lure out the mastermind and brushes it off by saying you're a guy.

It sucks because i think she could legitimately cool and ironically her playing such a huge role in the game is what holds her back for me.

I think the reason she got mad was because literally the day before Makoto got mad for her not trusting him. Also, she does apologize later for both of those things iirc.

Maybe I'm biased but I think it's a pretty lame apology. She hides a lot of things from Makoto so it's valid for him not to trust her (but it works with her character so I'm not annoyed with that. I am annoyed that despite knowing this we're still supposed to trust her unconditionally.) Then she basically uses that dynamic to guilt trip Makoto right after she admitted to risking his life and then acts like a jerk about it. Apologizing after is just too little too late. And to top it off he omits evidence to protect her in 1-5 and then she thanks you by pretty much throwing you to the wolves. Again, I think this works for her character, but then she comes to get him and he thanks her even though it's her fault he's there in the first place.

I think overall the idea that Makoto should be trusting her all the time when for most of the game she's basically just using him means she has not ground to stand on when talking about friendship and trust.

Saying she threw Makoto to the wolves is a little harsh. The mastermind manipulated everything just to frame Kyoko and put her in a horrible situation. If she comes clean about the special key shes as good as dead. She never claimed to value anyone else's life over her own and it's understandable to have done what she did. Doesn't mean she didn't feel horrible for keeping quiet though.

On a side note, If the story forced her to come clean about the key, I sorta wish alter ego could have saved Kyoko like he did for Makoto. I could definitely still see Makoto hopping down a trash heap to help her out, then the game would continue to proceed the same.

She never claimed to value anyone else's life over her own and it's understandable to have done what she did. Doesn't mean she didn't feel horrible for keeping quiet though.

Personally I don't really agree with this. Makoto has been her loyal friend and partner for a decent chunk of time now. Makoto lying and her not doing the same is basically her saying "if one of us is dying, better you than me". She's already harped on Makoto for being a bad friend (and imo that was completely unwarranted) so to me she just comes off as a huge hypocrite. And when she comes to get him there's not a single acknowledgement that she put him in that situation. If the situations were reversed I could not for one second think that Kyoko would be completely loyal and forgiving of that.

Part of this is the fault of Makoto's character (he's just way too forgiving and trusting) and Kyoko being ruthless in her pursuit of the truth would work if she wasn't the main heroine.

Let me throw a hypothetical at you. Try to imagine you're Kyoko in this scenario.

You've done nothing wrong or broken any of Monokuma's rules. You come back from investigating and it's announced that a trial will be held for a girl no one seems to have ever met. As the trial slowly unfolds you start to realize that all the evidence is pointing at you and based on what's been said it isn't possible for it to be anyone else. "I'm about to die for something I never did" crosses your mind. When the subject of the evidence in your room comes up, you remember that your room key was taken away from you by someone else. However you also remember you took a master key that can open any room and the only people who know about it are you and your best buddy Makoto. Makoto hasn't said a word about it and if he did it would be all over for you. Soon everyone's fingers start pointing to him because they don't know you could have still gotten into your room and then you start to think. "The mastermind went through a lot of trouble to pin this on me. I know there's no chance Makoto could have done this. If I speak up about the key Makoto will be safe but this trial will come to an abrupt end and I'll die. If I don't speak up about it there's a chance that he'll be punished instead but I can't be sure about that. If we just keep discussing this case maybe it'll open up new clues that point to the the real killer..." All of sudden Monokuma shouts out "Okaaay! Times up!"

After all that are you telling me that you should just shout out "I have a master key that can open up any room! Makoto couldn't have done it!". Everyone would then look at you and think "Okay then, you're the killer" then a swift execution would follow. You were trying to save yourself so desperately but now "Let me just kill myself for my friend". Sorry but I can't really subscribe to this line of thinking. At no point did you try to screw Makoto over, but helping him at this point would mean killing yourself.

Even in the ending where Makoto fesses up about the key Kyoko could have easily denied it, but she chooses not to. Can you really blame Kyoko in these scenarios?

I get your way of thinking, but the issue for me is that these decisions are hard to defend when you're also supposed to believe that Kyoko and Makoto are great friends and partners.

"The mastermind went through a lot of trouble to pin this on me. I know there's no chance Makoto could have done this. If I speak up about the key Makoto will be safe but this trial will come to an abrupt end and I'll die. If I don't speak up about it there's a chance that he'll be punished instead but I can't be sure about that.

At this point Kyoko pretty much knows this trial is a load of BS and that someone is toast if we vote for them. She also knows that while the mastermind framed her, they also want Makoto out of the picture. That's why they tried to stab him and why they were fine abruptly ending the trial when he was accused. To me if Makoto risks his neck for her and she doesn't do the same, and she knows the mastermind would very much want to get Makoto out of the picture, then I would interpret that as her believing she should be surviving over him.

"Let me just kill myself for my friend". Sorry but I can't really subscribe to this line of thinking. At no point did you try to screw Makoto over, but helping him at this point would mean killing yourself.

The thing here is Makoto did just that. He has no alibi or evidence that takes him out of the running. If he doesn't pin you as the killer, there is a chance that the blame could flip to him (and it does).

Even in the ending where Makoto fesses up about the key Kyoko could have easily denied it, but she chooses not to.

I don't think she could tho. Even if she didn't commit the crime, having the key proves that she was the only one who had the means to commit the murder. With no alibi and a vested interest in killing "Mukuro" there isn't any way she could deny it while offering an equally valid explanation for someone else doing it.

I definitely understand what you mean, and I think it would all be fine if it weren't for Kyoko being your partner. I think it was a huge mistake to do that because frankly she's an awful friend to you the whole game. She admits to risking your life to lure out the mastermind. She gets angry at you for not telling her the Sakura traitor thing becaue you still want more evidence. Then in every step of the investigation and trial, where she has incentive to just reveal what she knows right off the bat, she makes you solve it to see "if you reach the same conclusions I did instead of me telling you". She wants to criticize you for being a bad friend when she does the exact same thing to you, and you pretty much just trust her blind because she won't tell you what's really happening.

I really do think that the characters are just not compatible. "Opposites attract" and all but let's say Makoto says the key thing and Kyoko falls into the dump. Makoto goes to rescue her for sure, but when he gets there would Kyoko be saying "wow thanks you saved me thanks so much thank you thanks". Or would she be saying "why didn't you trust me? If you know I didn't do it why did you reveal that evidence? Don't you realize the mastermind faked the crime? How do I know that you're not working for the mastermind and came here to finish the job?" Makoto in this relationship is just a total pushover. He excuses all of Kyoko's behavior and is never critical even when she does something wrong. It creates the feeling that Makoto is just Kyoko's dumb sidekick and it isn't until the literal end of the game that he does something out of his own abilities to save everyone on his own.

I think this trial to me just enforces this previous behavior from Kyoko. She can't harp on friendship and trust and then not reciprocate you putting your life on the line out of nothing more than blind belief that she is your friend.

I never really thought of them as "good friends" at this point. I feel more like they were just barely learning to start trusting each other. Makoto whose fault is trusting people he wants to unconditionally, and Kyoko who was raised to be distrustful of everything around her including people. It would be hard for someone like that to just fess up knowing you're gonna die to protect someone you hardly know at this point. Again I don't blame Kyoko or Makoto at all in this trial because the mastermind put them in a horrible spot. Shes just trying to live and while Makoto believes he "can" take a chance and keep quiet about the key, Kyoko believes she "can't" take a chance and speak up about it.

I think she could have denied the key allegation btw. The subject of your room is coming up, so just dump the key somewhere nearby while everyone is discussing and when Makoto brings it up just say "What key? Quit bringing up nonsense" or something like that. Even if they search you or whatever you won't have it. There's a chance they could find where you hid it but you could potentially get away with it if they don't think to look nearby. Just saying it's possible lol.

As for her in the dump I don't think the conversation would be pleasant but she would understand why you did what you did. That's sorta just the difference between these two characters. Also in this hypothetical I forgot she has that key so she probably wouldn't be waiting around for hopeboi to come flying out of the sky along with garbage. She would probably just go through the door and ladder trap-door and ask for a retrial.

The way she was used in trials as the person who knows everything but asks you leading questions every step of the way was really dumb, I'll never defend that. However I do think they are compatible despite trial 5 being a bad example of that. They cover each others faults really well and only someone like Makoto could break through her shell and get really close to her. And lets be real Makoto's gonna be the pushover in almost any relationship.

continue this thread

Those things actually happened in the opposite order. As for risking Makoto's life I don't think that's true because shes been there a few times and was never attacked like he was. There's no way she could have expected that the mastermind would attack Makoto when they didn't even attack her.

here's what I was referring to
She does say that she wasnt sure if the mastermind even knew of the room, but Makoto outright asks if she knew he was going to get attacked and she says he's a boy so he should handle it. This is literally right after a girl was found guilty for the murder of two boys. Then she gets mad you won't tell her about Sakura.

I'm sure there's an argument in Kyoko's mind that even though she risked your life, at least she told you so it's not fair that you won't share your secret as well. But she admits it way after the fact and doesn't give you the chance to do the same. Then she gives you the cold shoulder for the rest of the chapter.

Well damn, I remembered that part wrong, you're right lol. "And I half expected the mastermind might come after you". Can't really defend that.

The thing is I actually don't mind this if she wasn't supposed to be our partner in the game. People want the dark detective and kyoko could work in that role (or if not dark then apathetic). She will risk anyone in pursuit of the truth (I think the whole friendship aspect of her character doesn't really work because of stuff like in my other comment). A trial where you have to go against her would be really interesting, especially since there are emotionally-based crimes in dgr1.

Also, she was really out of focus for DR3

Makes sense. Her NG code was a death sentence.

She's pretty cool

Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image

https://i.imgur.com/jd1AD60.jpg

Source | Why? | Creator | ignoreme | deletthis

Honestly, she falls victim to rival or helpful characters always needing to be a few steps ahead as the writing team uses them essentially as safety blankets for the player, and given her otherwise cold personality and heavy focus as the headmaster's daughter and with the whole fake death, it's easier to dislike her due to abnormal amounts of focus than it should be. She's more middle of the road to me as she does have some genuine moments, but at times she came off too strongly as a writing tool needed to progress the plot and the only moment where she wasn't smart enough was to create conflict in chapter 4 where she all of a sudden jumps to conclusions as part of the plot :/

I did mention that she did have some genuine moments throughout the series though, moments like being cornered against a wall and throwing Makoto to the wolves yet still going after his failed execution were done well enough to bring her up enough in my eyes to not be flat out displeased whenever I think of her.

I'll agree with this. While she had to be the "better" investigator to make the game work, she still had interpersonal flaws that kept her as a character rather than solely as a plot device. Her closest parallel is Chiaki, and we all know how "perfect" she was made, and the issues that raised.

Kyoko had issues. It made me appreciate her a bit more as a result.

That bullshit revival at the very end of the anime really pissed me off and was insulting to her character.

Other than that, she was fine. It was a bit annoying that Kirigiri was written as Naegi's waifu instead of the badass independent detective back in DR1 though.

the badass independent detective back in DR1 though.

The fact that she is basically just that is actually part of a character flaw of hers that wasn't properly addressed in DR1 so I'm glad DR3 at least did that when she chose sacrifice herself for Naegi's sake just as he did for her back then.

I don't mind that, it's just that this time Kirigiri's character revolved way more around Naegi. I would go as far as to say that she was a plot device in order to make Naegi look good.

Just because her relationship with Naegi became important to her does not mean she became a plot device. Would you say Naegi sacrificing himself for her sake in 1-5 was a plot device to make her look good? Remember that back in DR1 she felt reluctant but accepted sacrificing him, the fact that she grew beyond that shows development.

I get what that person is saying, though. In DR1, Naegi did a hell of a lot more than just sacrifice himself for Kyoko. In DR3, we occasionally got to see Kyoko looking at things... and then she died. Almost all of her on-screen character moments were with Naegi, or with her dead.

She also solved the mystery of the murders, it was thanks to her notebook that they could reach the true murder method.

"Yeah, I don't get this either, pretty sure I died."

It's a meme, but very applicable in regards to how I feel about her role in DR3.

The English dub of DR3 is a gift to us all.

Honestly she should've just stayed dead, I think they did the whole bs copout just to avoiding pissing people off

She's great, but she better not fucking win the survivor gauntlet.

..what's the reason why she shouldn't?

Cause she won the one before that, you got a problem with that?

Yes, but if she's popular enough to be able to (almost) win two of these, why not?

Or do you suggest banning a soccer team from future world championships once they've won? That just leads to everybody winning at some point in thr future.

-1 points 4 months ago 
Except that soccer teams themselves have control over who wins, this is purely fan voting.

Yes, but if the fans were to vote her as the winner two times, is that a problem?

-2 points 4 months ago 
It's an elimination match, not a popularity contest. If 10% of total voters rig the competition by voting for everyone except her then there are obviously 90% people voting to get her out in the finals, which is exactly what happened.

Edit: Nice downvotes, you from the Kyoko Discord group salty boy?

No, I am not - in fact, I don't use Discord.
I've realized that there's no point in talking to you since your opinion won't change, and your edit confirms that there's no point talking to you. As long as you're happy with your opinion, I won't bother you.

Kyoko as a character is great. Shes witty, smart, confident and has an amazing way with words. She hides her emotions and flaws but they still end up showing at certain moments. Comes off as rather aloof but that's because shes constantly stuck in her head thinking. Also I love her design and backstory. However...

Plotwise : The way Kyoko was used really pissed me off a lot. The whole "I know everything already but tell em Naegi" thing was a big gripe for me. I understand that she was put in there so she could point you to things that are important at the time, but It felt really forced a lot of the time with how much she knew and what exactly to look at without a good explanation. It felt like Ace Attorney except we were Maya Fey to her Phoenix Wright (also Byakuya is definitely Edgeworth lol). Don't even get me started on that trainwreck DR3 writing choice where her death literally meant nothing and she comes back to a happy ending.

I have a weird relationship with Kyoko. I initially didn't like her that much at first, but then as I played the later games and went back to DR 1, I found myself liking her a lot more. Now, she's one of my all time favorite Danganronpa characters. I'm a huge fan of characters that are not expressive, but very emotional and try to hide what they feel because there's an extra layer of trickiness in being able to effectively convey their feelings. I think part of it is that looking at some of the later "main" characters and their relationship with the protagonist, there's much more of a trend of pushing for the relationship of the characters as romantic.

I don't hate romance, but feel it destroys a lot of nuance in characters interacting with each other when romantic feelings for each other ends up being the central bond between the two and nothing else. People certainly shipped Makoto and Kyoko back in the early days of DR 1, but the narrative focuses more on how the two play off of their own personalities and dynamics. It feels very much like Makoto and Kyoko can function independently as characters, but we get something new when the two come together that we don't see looking at one of them by themselves.

I feel like Chiaki existed to get close to Hajime and evoke as much tragedy as possible when the completely innocent person has to die in case 5, and Kaede's character was sacrificed solely as a springboard for Shuichi's character arc and everyone else's to a lesser extent. Even the fifth V3 case repeats the idea of bringing together the romantic couple and playing for bringing out as much tragedy as possible. (Luckily Kaito skates off of it a bit since the focus is more on him wanting to ruin the class trials with the murder, but the fact remains that the romantic aspect eats up a fair amount of the case)

Unlike Chiaki, the game isn't afraid to make Kyoko look bad or have her make selfish choices (since she does grow from them or out of them), and unlike Maki, the game feels more aware of the implications of her actions and doesn't gloss over them. I won't go too much into that since that's better left to Maki's discussion week though.

Dr 3 needs no explanation with how much it plays up the romantic elements of Hajime/Chiaki as well as with Makoto/Kyoko. It felt very much in DR 1 like Kyoko and Makoto were more two people stuck in an unpleasant situation trying to escape and both learning a bit from each other, but there's a stark difference in how they're handled in DR3.

Kyoko doesn't expect trust out of others and doesn't hand it out either, except for Makoto when she sees she needs to start taking a gamble, and she can be a bit selfish about it like essentially using Makoto as a guinea pig to look in the secret room then getting mad at him about not telling her about Sakura. She owns up to this and apologizes though, so it helps to really establish the trust issues she has with people. She doesn't want to be seen as the abandoned girl because of her father, but it doesn't mean she doesn't have several trust issues that she's grappling with.

It comes full circle when she and Makoto are both caught in the mastermind's trap and one of them is going to get executed. It's not a question of whether or not Kyoko deserves trust, but she's upset even though she still makes a choice. I think it works well because she's not at fault and was caught in a trap herself, so even though she still chooses to sacrifice Makoto, it helps her remain still sympathetic and understandable enough. It's obviously not the selfless "sacrifice yourself" choice, but she also had an unfair situation thrown onto her, and Makoto doesn't hold it against her. 1-5 is very simple in premise, but its strong point is how much it ends up unearthing between Makoto and Kyoko. I like that she's more of a risk taker both how she conducts herself during class trials (though that's more a sign that the writers couldn't think of ways for the player to logically refute certain points, so they have Kyoko take gambles and hope nobody calls her out—I can excuse this with it being the first in the series since a lot of mystery games generally have weaker logic in their first entry and improve on it in later games when they're more experienced) while Makoto is more the worrier.

I like that she misjudges Makoto approaching her on several occasions, like case 3 where Makoto's first reaction is asking if she's okay while Kyoko's first assumption is that he's going to press her since she's a top suspect at the moment. He tells her he'll cooperate with her to find out information about Monokuma, but only if she agrees not to take any unnecessary risks.

Makoto is very hesitant about her choice, and she is about hers. She does own up to it and goes to rescue Makoto afterward, so while I think her character still could have been better in some ways, I appreciate that the dynamic between the two isn't so much lovey dovey bonding and having them reach out. It can be platonic or romantic either way, but I liked the arc and I like that DR 1 never felt like it had to force Makoto and Kyoko together to bring out more tragedy and instead gave us an exploration about how the two of them come together.

I don't mind Kyoko returning in DR 3, but she (and Hina for that matter) shouldn't be in the killing game. The dynamic doesn't work well to have returning characters join in because they either feel like they have plot armor if they live, or feel like shock value kills if they don't, and boy oh boy did Kyoko have the shock value death of the century.

I wasn't one of the people shocked because I saw her crime scene and saw that it didn't make sense and was expecting her to be alive by the end, though there are still several plotholes with it. Kyoko falls on her stomach when they're knocked out, but when they wake up, she's lying down perfectly straight on her back and rotated 180 degrees. Apparently poison makes you flip your body perfectly and move around without someone else doing it for you.

Hina already had a shock value fake out and it didn't add much to the narrative beyond just shocking the viewer. Kyoko got this even worse, and again it follows the pattern of forcing a group together and trying to just evoke as much tragedy as possible. I do like that Kyoko protects Makoto in her own way and makes a silent sacrifice by not speaking up about her forbidden action. I don't think killing her off to that end is the way to do it and establish how she feels about the others. You can pull off a dilemma or something and express it that way.

Doing it the way they did does Kyoko a disservice since she's just being taken out the story solely to be a springboard for Makoto and for him to have a conflict with Munakata. I don't feel she should have "stayed dead" but instead feel they shouldn't have used that scenario to begin with. DR 1-5 is smart about how it handles this because even though the suspect list and progression of the case is obvious, it doesn't focus on the "who" of the case and gives us insight about both the kind of person Makoto and Kyoko are and what they bring out in each other. Keeping her dead would have done Koichi a disservice too since he died for no reason, and just having Kyoko show up at the end was just kind of weak, I feel. I would have rather watched Kyoko and Hina together than to try and focus on a billion different plot points that mostly went nowhere, and I sure as hell think it was a bad idea to do a fakeout with kyoko. Just outright killing her off would have been a poor move too, though.

If they're going to have Kyoko cured by an antidote, then they need to focus more on the fact that it's possible. Yeah, there's that frame of the bottle near Kyoko, but…that's way too big a plot point to just casually have outside of a frame for half a second, and while I still firmly believe that killing off Kyoko or doing a fakeout shouldn't be the way to express her dynamic with Makoto, I do agree that that was a stupid plotpoint. It also makes her look more like an idiotic gimmick character if the logic for the mysteries aren't sound. DR 1 had this issue as well, because the mysteries were so light and easy it just made the rest of the group come off as idiots rather than portraying Kyoko as a logical detective able to unravel complicated mysteries. Put her in a harder mystery game and her character comes together nicely.

Maybe set up a mystery scenario where the evidence suggests that Makoto is the only possible culprit, and she decides to implicate herself until she can get more evidence or she decides "screw the evidence" or something. Have her talk about her detective work and remark on how believing people versus doubting them fundamentally changes how you investigate and that she's doing things differently now that Makoto is the one under suspicion. Maybe have her comment on how differently she looks at crime scenes after the events of Dr 1. Have it where she thinks about the case very differently since she wants to believe in Makoto.

The DR3 scene I do love though? Where she's eating with Hina and Makoto. The three of them are together again and we get barely any screentime with all of them together, but I did enjoy this part…even if Ryota is there and feels incredibly out of place while a group of characters who have a close friendship are all together. The Scene shows her gloves to indicate that this scene is a show of trust for Kyoko since she mentions she doesn't go out of her way to remove them.

Kyoko is literally unchallenged in the entire murder mystery aspect of DR1. This isn't just a case of DR1 being simple. There's a complete lack of buildup of a credible adversary. Even if the author is totally incapable of imagining what kind of crime a more potent adversary may commit, he can at least create a credible foe in other ways. Celeste is probably the best candidate given Junko can't realistically be an adversary as it'd be impossible for she to screw up with the advantage she has. Celeste should have totally hammered Kyoko and anyone else trying to make conjectures that are not completely supported by fact, including the whole 'you used plural form of guys so you must be the murderer' deal from Byakuya. If Kyoko had some setback in the detective front, that'd credibly establish the fact that her opponents are not just a bunch of morons who falls for the simplest detective tricks and crack under the slightest hint of pressure, and that in fact makes her expertise credible when she eventually defeats them even if she's using the same bag of tricks.

Well said. It's exactly as you put it. The mysteries don't give much room to counterargue with, holding back the culprits and the people catching them.

Kyoko ends up being one of my favorites in the series, but she also leaves the player with more questions than answers. I know there's that light novel about her, but I feel like there were several major things that should have been answered. What's her family like beyond just the family creed? Go more in depth about the case that got her burned. Stuff like that. We get bits and pieces, but she left me wanting a bit more, and not in a fully satisfying way. That's more an issue with Danganronpa characters in general though, so even though I don't think she was fully realized, she's still one of my favorite characters.

Here's what I originally wrote about her:

No matter what your opinion of Kyoko is, her role in the story is clear—they want you to have a distant, sketchy, and uncertain type of bond with her in order to fit the theme of distrust. She seems nice, but she's also hiding a lot from you. The game makes sure to leave a degree of uncertainty in your interactions with Kyoko that stays pretty consistent and boils over in the fifth chapter. Ultimately, she doesn't turn out to be the traitor, the mastermind, or anything. Come case 5, you don't get the luxury of evidence to prove or disprove people this time. It's not "did Kyoko did it" this time—with the evidence you've uncovered, it's quite possible she could have—instead, you're forced into the dilemma of "do you trust Kyoko" instead.

My deal with Kyoko isn't so much about her character in itself, but more how the game goes about discrediting her trust. Obviously, if you want a game about distrust, then you can't make Kyoko entirely sympathetic or trustworthy, otherwise the entire balance is lost. But I feel the game sort of detracts from Kyoko a lot with some of the ways they go about presenting her.

I usually make the joke that she's the ultimate "first thing you'd guess" since just from her appearance in the prologue, my first guess for her talent was the ultimate detective or maybe a coroner at the very least. I guess part of it is that it can really only go in one of a few directions, and because you're reading a story, it'd be too obvious for them to make her the mastermind, but that in itself breaks the balance because I kind of saw exactly where her arc was going to go. There's also the fact that…Kyoko has some really weird moments in the class trials in how they present her. My least favorite moment is still her slip of the tongue gambit in chapter 2. It doesn't make full sense for her to call out Mondo on his slip of the tongue if it was established that she shouldn't have knowledge of it either. It makes a lot more sense for Celeste to pull this and catch Mondo, especially since she's the liar queen. The information was limited to just Celeste and Makoto, and while Mondo saying any color is off, it's still a bit of stretch for Kyoko to pull the entire gambit, especially since she immediately abandons it. I get that they're trying to show that she tries to get truth out however, but it just comes off a bit more gimmicky to me than anything.

There's another instance in the sixth trial where she throws out a point about Mukuro's tattoo, but then later bringing up a point about foundation saying she noticed the contradiction the moment she said it, but just hoped nobody would point it out. I think the taking blind gambles approach combined with some of her previous actions (sending Makoto into something she found knowing it was most likely a trap and using Makoto, followed by immediately getting annoyed by him for withholding information) kind of really hurts the balancing act. Ideally, Kyoko would be someone you have as much reason to trust as you do distrust, but I personally found her just as "I'd never bother with you in any situation, but I know the direction the game is going in, so I have no choice but to play along."

The tension comes strongest when the game makes her equally trustworthy and unreliable, but instead there are just portions where she completely throws you under the bus and then helps out a lot in the trials, so it just feels more flip floppish and inconsistent than a constant tension. She gets mad at Makoto for withholding information, right after sending him off into a trap to serve her own needs, so it just comes off as a bit anticlimactic for me when you have to stick up for her. I understand she's clearly regretful of her actions, but because they go so back and forth with Kyoko rather than a constant, balanced tension, her reaction feels a bit forced, especially since I knew where she was going.

Chapter 6 Kyoko is pretty cool though. I especially like her comment about family being more than just blood relationships, so it's clear that trust is something she's wrestled with arguably her whole life. She's the perfect setup, but I think how she played out could have been a bit stronger.

You've pretty much summed up my understanding and feelings towards Kyoko. I thoroughly believe she is a good character with lots of potential that the games and other media dabbled into, but the inconsistency in her portrayal sometimes is off-setting.

I do like how they rewrote the dialogue in the DR1 anime English dub for the 2nd trial with Mondo's slip up of the jacket color. In that trial, instead of only Celeste and Makoto knowing about the track jacket color and Kyoko somehow knowing to focus on the clothes and catching Mondo's slip-up, the anime instead makes it so that Celeste never mentioned the color at all, so it was extremely weird that Mondo said it was specifically blue, and both Makoto and Kyoko catch onto it at the same time. And the anime also manages to make it so that Kyoko doesn't constantly control the field during trials. She had control of the first trial because it was when Makoto was coming to his own and accepting the realities of the game, but for the rest of the anime, Makoto contributes just as much as Kyoko and catches onto inconsistencies without her going "you caught that too, right? now point it out to everyone" like she does for nearly all of DR1. It just seems more fluid and realistic that way.

DR3 was just a lot of wasted potential. The mystery was nice, and watching the episodes and trying to solve everything with Kyoko as it went along was actually fun. Unfortunately most of the character portrayals were poorly handled. Everyone was mostly an exaggeration of their main character traits. What happened to Hina's distrust of suspicious individuals? To Makoto's ability to catch on to things that didn't seem right? Either one of them should've been able to at least acknowledge the fact that there were only 3 people in the secure room with Gozu's corpse, and the culprit was definitely not either one of them. At least throw in a little bit of internal debate over trusting "Gekkogahara" to show that they made deductions and don't like the answers. It seemed like it was literally JUST Kyoko trying to solve a damn thing, and it's a waste of characterization.

I agree that the fake out death was just a cop-out by itself. Not because she lived through it (because I saw it coming the moment they showed the scene where she finds Seiko's medicine bottle and stares at it), but because it existed in the first place. Makoto should've been motivated enough to end the killing without her having to fake die to inspire him (just to get his butt whooped). Makoto of all people should've spotted the damn bottle labelled "cure w" on the barren floor next to her; there was nothing else on the damn floor! He should've known she had a notebook with her findings! Makoto should've TRIED to investigate even a little bit. What happened to our observant hope boy in DR1? Working under Kyoko, I highly doubt he got dumber in the few years until DR3. The entirety of DR3 felt like wasted character potential. The mystery itself was good, but the characters made absolutely NO sense. Sakakura and Seiko were the only two that made any sense, along with the 4 other DR1 survivors that weren't Makoto or Kyoko.

DR3 was fun to watch, but man was I yelling at the TV the entire time because of the inconsistencies. I hate how they sacrificed so much of each individual's character to force a "boy gets inspired by his dead love interest" stereotype. It's a disservice to the partnership and teamwork between Makoto and Kyoko that they've built up in DR1.

Your idea of an alternative dilemma with all the evidence pointing towards Makoto, and Kyoko trying to take the fall or acknowledging the bias that shouldn't be there in her investigations because Makoto is the #1 suspect...It's a lot of what-could-have-beens that will stay what-could-have-beens.

It's mostly just a shame that a lot of people ended up disliking some characters because of how poorly they were portrayed in the DR3 arc (both sides, because the way the DR2 cast was handled in Despair was also just as disappointing). They could've done so much better, and that's probably why I'm still so heated about DR3.

I'm very glad she lived - but not a single DR1 character died in the anime even though ALL of their death's were teased at some point (except I think Toko and Hagekure). Kirigiri herself has two death teasers! That's what gave the anime as a whole no stakes or substance. They may have made us think it at the time, but the returning characters were never in any real danger.

Personally, I do like Kyoko as a character. She and other characters like Toko and sort of Byakuya have pretty understandable reactions to being locked in a death game: Kyoko doesn't have memories and keeps her distance from everyone but maintains a level head, Toko is terrified and incredibly suspicious of everyone (but doesn't express it in a very healthy way), and Byakuya is aloof (although his excessive competitiveness is not normal).

Unfortunately for DR1, the way they used Kyoko as the character that led you to the answer was a little aggravating. When I watched the DR1 anime, I loved how they portrayed her and Makoto's interactions. She helped him through the first case, stepped back to let everyone figure out the 2nd (only jumping in to redirect it when they go off track before the reveal), and the two of them actually team up for the rest instead of her holding his hand through everything like in the game. There's the one moment when Mondo had his slip-up in the trial, Kyoko and Makoto make eye contact to confirm that they both caught it, and then Makoto continues the case. That's teamwork, and I wish that's how it went down earlier in the games.

In DR2, she was more of the balancing force between Byakuya's bluntness and Makoto's excessive optimism. She is the voice of reason, acknowledging the worst case scenario, but not disregarding the possibility of the alternative.

I HATE how they used her as just a plot device in DR3. They made Makoto and mostly anyone else seem incapable of solving anything happening. Munakata just jumps to the extreme conclusions, and even Ruruka figured out Seiko's forbidden action. Makoto couldn't hold his own UNTIL AFTER Kyoko "dies", and I hate that. They even had Hina be the one to find the notebook on Kyoko, even though Makoto of ALL PEOPLE should've known Kyoko would've been actively investigating. No, he just rushes to Munakata to tell him he figured out his forbidden action and proceed to get his ass whooped. It was a terrible representation of what their partnership should've been. If Makoto just actively investigated on his own (or maybe just figure out that only he, Hina, and Gekkogahara were in the same secured room as the Great Gozu, and maybe just maybe show a bit of internal reservation to trusting Gekkogahara), maybe it wouldn't have been as bad. I can't hate JUST Kyoko in DR3 when the writers weren't very great at writing the rest of the characters as more than just flanderized exaggerations of their main character traits. Sakakura was the best written character in DR3, and he's an asshole. It hurts me as a writer.

TLDR: Kyoko is a good character, but the writers made her hold your hand in DR1 and turned her into a plot device for Makoto's "growth" in DR3, and it hurts me. Her portrayal alongside Makoto's in DR1 the anime was pretty good though. Sakakura is a well-written character but still an ass.

In DR1 she was ok imo. A bit plain compared to the rest of the cast, but it fits her introvert personality, only trusting Naegi to an extent. She's smarter than most of the DR1 cast, and i like her design and backstory, which explains why she behaves the way she does. In conclusion, the whole emotionless personality suits her, although showing her emotions at times when she isn't lost in thought, she's really clever, mantaining some flaws like her difficulties to trust anyone (reason why she has pissed with Naegi at the first half of Chapter 4) and her extreme secretism (because of her distrust of everyone.

Plotwise, i'd say she has Kaito's problem: Good character but poorly executed in writing, where with all the focus she receives she almost becomes a plot device, because she moves the cases too much (i know it's her territory and she's supposed to act well and such, but the only character who plays a big role in the trials other than her and Naegi is Byakuya, whose participation is mostly Tell them, Naegi, just like Kyoko). Thankfully, she has her moments like her quote (although not that original, but a good quote nonetheless) If you keep running away from danger, you'll never be able to move forward, seeing her as someone who, despite being calm, is willing to take risks. Another moment is when she goes to rescue Naegi after his execution (the noodles kinda fit her, btw). I don't think she's that much of a Mary Sue, because the game has no fear of showing her forementioned flaws and not everyone agrees with her (only Naegi trusts her), she might be too relevant to the plot and have high screentime but she isn't perfect, she is just suited for the situation (a homicide detective in a killing game). In conclusion, she would have worked better with less focus

In DR3, they ruined her imo (same with Chiaki but that's another story). When you make a character fake his/her death once it can kinda pass (Hello, Ouma and Hina), but when you make that thing twice in the same story, and with a beloved character with little to no foreshadowing (i'm aware of the whole bottle thing) and when one of the most important aspects of your franchise are deaths, it feels a bit BS, especially when her NG code was really harsh, as if they wanted her to die so badly to create this delusion. In conclusion, they tried to make Future Arc more dramatic without killing a beloved character (that's funny, coming from Danganronpa) but failed miserably.

In conclusion, she is a good character, i like her, but DR1 focuses a bit too much in her and DR3 outright makes her BS.

Not a fan of her.

I ended up hating her less after she was betrayed by her own creator in DR3. She's a flawed character but it's interesting to think about how to salvage her. Her problem is that she's basically the fake Mary Sue where she's supposed to have a weakness (weak people skills) except having weak personal skills means she's totally not qualified for the Mary Sue roles she ends up getting into. She originally thought Hina pretended to have killed Sakura to protect Sakura's honor, because it's clearly totally worth it to have everyone die as long as they didn't think Sakura was a wimp for committing suicide. This shows some kind of unbelievable lack of basic common sense, and that should have been her glaring weakness. This is where Makoto should have stepped in and pointed out that motive makes no sense whatsoever and Hina even immediately said she just wanted to kill everyone for revenge. It'd be even better if later Kyoko privately confessed to Makoto that she really had no idea what motivates people since she only needs to be able to discern the truth as opposed to why it happened, and that when she originally told him back in chapter 1 about Sayaka she made it all up and she never actually talked to Sayaka at this point.

It should be noted that Kyoko is possibly an even bigger closet optimist than Makoto despite her cold exterior. She somehow had a positive interpretation of why Hina tried to kill everyone in chapter 4. She volunteered to sleep with her room open to keep tabs on Alter Ego in chapter 3, and while that's probably supposed to show how awesome she is at combat, I don't see how anyone could risk themselves without the utmost faith in her classmates. She had her room key taken away in chapter 5, and again she wasn't bothered by that and it's not because she planned on sneaking back to her room with the master key. Otherwise she'd have noticed someone framed her for killing Mukuro. Again, she must have believed none of her classmates would do anything to her just because she'd be forced to sleep outside so it's no big deal as she's only worried about the Mastermind (a locked room is irrelevant to the Mastermind who can get in anywhere). Again, this should be part of her people skill weakness. Despite being a paragon of logic, she's awfully trusting of others for no logical reason and that's why she needs to keep her distance and she needs Makoto to get her out of trouble for trusting others too easily.

Makoto, Byakuya, and Kyoko should each be a part of a team, with the roles of the glue guy, the leader, and the expert respectively. For some reason Kodaka is absolutely loathe to have Byakuya get any credit or for Kyoko to ever need any help. There isn't anything superior or inferior about these roles. If you don't have Makoto, Byakuya and Kyoko would never be able to work together and the whole team falls apart. If you don't have Byakuya there is no one who can actually lead. If you don't have Kyoko nothing would ever get done because she's the only person who's willing to risk her life to get things done. You need all 3 to have a complete team, and you definitely need all 3 to face Junko who by definition has perfect leadership and perfect expertise, but she doesn't have Makoto's ability to hold the team together no matter how bad it looks and it's okay for Kyoko to admit defeat against Junko. DR1's refusal for Kyoko to admit weakness under any circumstance greatly undermines the validity of the entire conflict. You end up with some kind of paradox where Junko is apparently no match for Kyoko's genius, except she easily subdued Kyoko and her entire classmates in the past.

C U R E W

I love how it's been a day and this already has more comments than Izayoi's, lmao

My 2nd best girl. Love her.

Out of curiosity who's number 1?

Chiaki. I'm a basic girl.

Good fucking taste

Why thank you.

I'll just copy what i said in another thread.
I think Kyoko is a boring, overpowered, uninteresting character without a entertaining, charismatic, badass or interesting personality, or a good character arc or any depth. My opinion on Kyoko is pretty low.

I mean, she almost felt insulting to me, but that's very personal. When i was writing a story, i also had a intelligent detective character, but i was borderline paranoid on making sure she wasn't a cliché all-knowing type, "i have to make her interesting in every scene, i won't make her anti-social, i won't make her needlessly serious, i need to make her entertaining in a scene-by-scene basis or she'll just fail, maybe if i give her some sass and give her some down-to-earth qualities i'll be able to space in her serious detective moments, maybe if i give her a few anger and stress issues she won't come across as a deduction robot" So when Kyoko willingly walks in on all the pitfalls i desperately tried to avoid, i felt like she was as lazy as possible.

Interesting assessment but I think you might have taken the characterization too personally. None of the things you left out of your character are innately bad qualities. They simply need to be "backed up" with other elements of the character. "I need to make her interesting in every scene" is a HUGE pitfall when it comes to writing strong, intelligent characters.

If your character has a presence in every scene people are going to attach themselves to the qualities they want to, not the ones you intended. Making a character like that requires balance. They need to be right most of the time but still seem human. The more screen time they get the smaller your window for that balance actually is. The easy way to avoid this is to have your smart character stay silent, only speaking up when they are absolutely confident (Kyoko). Another more fun way is to have an entirely different aspect of their character come out in other scenes that people can't ignore (Nagito being bat-sh*t insane).

Kyoko only works because of how tied to the plot she is. She's written lazily or "overtly safely" for sure, but most players won't care if it keeps the other more dynamic character's story moving at a satisfying pace. This is until chapter 5 where Kyoko finally really takes the spotlight for herself. Now while you may have already had made your mind up about Kyoko, most players are actually really excited to see where they take her. She starts to break out of the shell her character had defined for the past 4 chapters, she stops doing all those things that you wanted to avoid. Even though her back-story is only sub-par it isn't that bothersome. What really makes it great is her relationship with Makoto. Seeing her break every trope she lives by for the sake of the boy who 'foolishly' trusted her is innately satisfying for the player themselves. It also transitions into chapter 6 perfectly because they player is now already familiar with the strength of Makoto's optimism.

Not all characters need to push the boundaries of characterization. When you're going for a plot as crazy as Daganronpa's is, it's a good idea to have a couple of "safe-bets" among the cast, ESPECIALLY with the surviving members.

None of the things you left out of your character are innately bad qualities. They simply need to be "backed up" with other elements of the character.

"I need to make her interesting in every scene" is a HUGE pitfall when it comes to writing strong, intelligent characters.

I think you misnterpreted, i didn't think i needed to make her great on literally every scene of the story. She's just one of many main characters the story follows. That said, i wanted to make her great on every scene she was in, because that is the mark of good writing to me. My favorite characters in this series, Junko, Miu, Ibuki, Hajime, are all great to follow on a scene-by-scene basis while Kyoko just...isn't. She lacks the charm that makes me like a character.

Yeah, i don't think there is such a thing as a "bad concept", as long as it's well-executed, anything is good. I just think Kyoko...isn't. She brought no entertaiment value whatsoever to me. It was like watching Sherlock Holmes except without all the wit and charm. It was like watching Batman without the badass fight scenes or moral conflicts.

They need to be right most of the time but still seem human. The more screen time they get the smaller your window for that balance actually is.

Yeah, i did this by having her show a lot of emotion when compared to Kyoko for most of her screentime, and since the series is combat oriented with some focus on the macro strategies, she's frequently equally matched when it comes to strategies and her deductions being right all the time doesn't have a big impact. The series isn't really about murder mysteries or investigations, it's a typical shonen combat series with a lot of characters, so even if she's one of the mains, she's not the only one who gets to do stuff, if anything, she's pretty dependent of others during combat scenes despite being skilled of her own.

She's written lazily or "overtly safely" for sure, but most players won't care if it keeps the other more dynamic character's story moving at a satisfying pace.

Yeah but the other characters suck. I'm not a fan of DR1's characterization. And it's pretty fucking obvious she's gonna be important so whenever she's around i pay attention to her. And she's boring then.

She starts to break out of the shell her character had defined for the past 4 chapters, she stops doing all those things that you wanted to avoid. Even though her back-story is only sub-par it isn't that bothersome.

I didn't see that. I mean, i did her FTEs so the whole "yeah i'm gonna be your friend now" wasn't very genuine. And even discounting that...i didn't see the change in her overall behavior that much. She still acted very boringly, her lines didn't have a lot of charm, it was just typical detective affair. Sometimes she smirked or something but it wasn't enough, if anything, it was too little to late, because you can't just stay an entire game being boring and cryptic and then expect me to be invested when the only difference in the end is that you get a bit more friendly. Look at her in DR3, it's the same shit, she's friends with Makoto but she's still cold, calm and boring all the time.

What really makes it great is her relationship with Makoto. Seeing her break every trope she lives by for the sake of the boy who 'foolishly' trusted her is innately satisfying for the player themselves.

Yeah but Makoto is even worse, the main characters of this game are some of the most boring. I could buy their relationship if i was invested in either of them but i wasn't. As i said, i don't think Makoto is a bad concept or anything, i love the concept of a awe-inspiring contagious hope, but i think this was done way better in V3. Makoto's the same as Kyoko. Two basic, shallow archetypes become friends...

Not all characters need to push the boundaries of characterization.

No, but they all need to be, in some way or form, engaging and entertaining. Originality is overrated, sticking with what's known and making sure it's well polished is way easier, the problem is Kyoko is so bland to me she feels more like a unpolished concept than a character. A concept thrown in to fit the story, without any care given to how she would act in each scene, how her writing would be, how they would develop her story. Just...the smart detective. Boom. Done. Next game.

Hmm... I get what you're saying but I'm starting to think the issue has less to do with Kyoko and more with the first game itself. What order were you exposed to Daganronpa in? Did you see the anime first? What made you want to continue with the franchise?

i didn't see the change in her overall behavior that much.

The first example is during trial number 5 when Kyoko is desperately defending herself. It doesn't look too different from her normal actions, but the game even has Makoto point out how contrived her defence seems; This is the tipping point. The next is when Monokuma ends the trial early. Kyoko is visibly and clearly upset by this for basically the first time. Then in her apology to Makoto, she appears straight up disgusted, whether it is the situation, herself or a little of both is up for interpretation. Then she risks her life to dive down a garbage pit to save him. Next when the password for the locked door is revealed she completely loses her composure. Afterwards, Monokuma's 'gift' is discovered and she tells Makoto to leave the room so she can have some time to herself. That's right, potentially the greatest stone-cold detective in the entire world needs some time to wind-down during the most important investigation in the history of mankind. Lastly, in her 'breakthrough' at the end of trial 6 she basically says she's throwing logic to the wind and following her gut. The difference in her behaviour during the last 2 chapters are anything but unnoticeable. They basically guide the narrative to a close.

I agree that Makoto and Kyoko don't have the spontaneity as other characters. They are mostly predictable, but what you need to understand is just how much the other games benefited from them taking this route. If you put too much of a spotlight on characters the plot of the game must take a back seat. The second game only got away with its bouncy complicated cast because of the plot formula established in the first game. Even if the characters feel real and dynamic it falls apart if the scenario can't hold it together. Danganronpa takes it's scenario and pushes it as far as it possibly can without breaking it. There was no room for complicated character arcs with multiple dibs and rises. Makoto pretty much has his entire arc in the first chapter. Even Kyoko gets a far better treatment in comparison with the slow build of the trust idea that began in chapters 2-3.

Kyoko needs the plot of Dangaronpa to seem authentic. The plot of Danganronpa needs Kyoko to keep moving. I don't think anybody loves Kyoko based on her scene presence. They love the complete arc the character goes through and how much it means for the morals and ideas Danganronpa holds dear. They love that Makoto managed to pull her out of what she assumed she had been locked in for years. They love what she did for the franchise.

Danganonpa took a fair bit away from its characters for the sake of the plot. I think Dananronpa 2 managed to strike a near perfect balance of plot and characters, that's why it's most people's favourite. Personally, I think V3 went too far with its character focus and lost some of the tension the and unpredictability of the plot/scenario. It sticks to the franchise formula to a nonsensical point and then plans to use that to score a slam-dunk with the ending. I think it lost some of the fun of the journey with this decision.

The first example is during trial number 5 when Kyoko is desperately defending herself.

Oh that might explain it. I fucking hate chapter 5 for having this victim i had no investment in, having Kyoko be this uncooperative bitch for the whole chapter, be weirdly easy, be so ugly and the first chunk of the trial involve me proving Kyoko is alive to fucking Yasuhiro further proving he has no business being alive. Kyoko was part of what made chapter 5 unenjoyable. The game expects me to put all of my blind trust on her despite the plot, the genre, the pattern, the logic, everything in the world telling me to pursue the truth untill the end. If Kyoko can do everything and deserves to be alive more than me why do i even bother?

I agree that Makoto and Kyoko don't have the spontaneity as other characters. They are mostly predictable, but what you need to understand is just how much the other games benefited from them taking this route.

I don't think this changes anything, it still hampered my enjoyment. If the game suffered from having to establish stuff, it still suffered. I'm not gonna just let its shortcomings slide just because it was the first. Flaws are flaws, regardless of why they exist.

Kyoko needs the plot of Dangaronpa to seem authentic. The plot of Danganronpa needs Kyoko to keep moving.

Then rewrite the plot to not need a character like her.

They love the complete arc the character goes through and how much it means for the morals and ideas Danganronpa holds dear. They love that Makoto managed to pull her out of what she assumed she had been locked in for years. They love what she did for the franchise.

None of that's original. It's a defrosting ice queen except not really and she's still an ice queen except she's friends with Makoto now. It's less like she changed and more like they added character traits on top of her to make her a more complete character, that trait being: "hopeful".

Damn, that was a quick response. I have to go to work soon so I'll make this quick.

having Kyoko be this uncooperative bitch for the whole chapter

Well, I'd hope so her life was at stake and you were the one in the crosshairs of everyone else.

proving Kyoko is alive to fucking Yasuhiro

Yeah, that was total bullshit but not really relevant.

Kyoko was part of what made chapter 5 unenjoyable.

Chapter 5 unenjoyable? I don't hear that very often...

The game expects me to put all of my blind trust on her despite the plot, the genre, the pattern, the logic, everything in the world telling me to pursue the truth untill the end. If Kyoko can do everything and deserves to be alive more than me why do i even bother?

Thus is the entire moral of the trial and the entire game really. Dangaronpa wants you to trust her because its the only way anything is going to change and because Monokuma set it all up not to trust each other in the first place. This is the first time the game asks you to go against Monokuma's game directly.

I don't think this changes anything, it still hampered my enjoyment.

This goes back to series exposure, I'm pretty confident that even if you did play the game first you must have already know what it was going to be like going in. The first game thrives on being a new thing with new concepts. It suffers immensely if the player already has an idea of what to expect.

Then rewrite the plot to not need a character like her.

Not if the model already works, we don't rewrite stuff to make sure it's a masterpiece when compared to its sequels.

None of that's original.

Didn't we already agree that wasn't important?

Chapter 5 unenjoyable? I don't hear that very often...

Yeah, i explained why. It's actually my least favorite chapter of the entire series. Kyoko all of a sudden being uncooperative was pretty bad.

Well, I'd hope so her life was at stake and you were the one in the crosshairs of everyone else.

Didn't stop her in chapter 1. Or any of the others tbh

Thus is the entire moral of the trial and the entire game really.

It's a shitty moral. "Don't pursue the truth, die and let your smarter friend do it regardless if they've been acting sketchy for the whole chapter and you have no reason to trust them", that's fucking bullshit.

I'm pretty confident that even if you did play the game first you must have already know what it was going to be like going in.

Well, yeah i guess?I wanted a murder mystery series after being done with Ace Attorney, Danganronpa was the closest one, and it had a big fanbase so i knew i'd be entertained for years.

Not if the model already works, we don't rewrite stuff to make sure it's a masterpiece when compared to its sequels.

I mean during the project. "Hey, isn't this Kyoko character kinda dragging the game down?" "Yep, let's rethink it"
But nah, they liked Kyoko, and she's a massive fanfavorite. Doesn't stop her from being poorly written though.

Didn't we already agree that wasn't important?

Hm, maybe i worded it wrong. None of that is impressive, it's not tightly constructed or deep or complex or anything, it's just the same story done in a pretty basic way. That hurts it.

I really like her, although I admit she is a bit flat. I feel like her survival would have been better if they had some kind of foreshadowing to there being a cure for the armband's poison or something, since it just felt really cheap and like a cop out to keep her alive like that.

There was foreshadowing though, but it was really subtle. For example, after Bandai dies, Seiko says that she could have saved him with some bottle that she was holding. When Seiko dies, Kyoko inspects the bottle, I think. After everybody wakes up and Kyoko's "body" is found, in one frame the bottle is seen.

While small, there was foreshadowing to her revival and a cure to the poison.

There's also the fact that her "death" is a huge parallel to Dr1 where Naegi sacrifices himself for Kirigiri only to end up surviving.

I didn't like her in the first game but thought she was one of the few bright spots of the DR1 anime. Of course that all got flushed down the toilet in DR3. Overall, not recommended.

Tfw they already blow the fake out when revealing her "death". I mean, this hand...

I don't mind Kirigiri that much and all in all, I like her quite much, but DR3 hits hard a fact I have against her that since DR1 they don't really know what to do with her since that game. In SDR2 there wasn't much reason for her to be there other than another vote for the countdown (like there is where she's shocked for her father agreeing to the human experiments but it doesn't really go anywhere). In AE she is the only one not directly mentioned by the scenario aside from Fuhito's card, but she is weirdly cast aside, which I really don't like considering she was like THIS IMPORTANT in the first game.

Then DR3 hits and aside from a cool mystery getting solved in Episode 8 and her relationship to Kizakura she is just used for a somewhat development for Naegi (goddamit Kodaka that trope was already used 4 times in this series but you had to redo it for your new game of course).. and a rather insulting form of development at that. Then you just bring her back as a sort of waifu-like bullshit in the end (and all for Naegi considering they framed the screen around him of fucking course) and yet another fake out since it has been shown that this anime loves to not play hardball on this front.

Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image

https://i.imgur.com/3l60VHS.gifv

Source | Why? | Creator | ignoreme | deletthis

thanks bot

you're welcome

Source | Why? | Creator | ignoreme

She would have been fine if the game didn't constantly get on its knees and beg you to be interested in her.

Kirigiri is massively overrated. Do not see the big deal about her. Didn't care for her in DR1 and DR3 didn't change it for me except made me annoyed with her getting that bullshit fakeout death.

I thought Kirigiri had a lot of good moments in DR1 but most of them were locked behind too much of the endgame. For the first 4 chapters of the game, I can't really disagree with people calling her a Mary Sue as she basically has the entire case figured out and has to spoon feed makoto with anything that is even slightly out-of-the-box.

and DR3 was straight up just waifu-baiting which was sad.

Found her kind of cool in DR1, maintained that view in SDR2, then DR3 came along she should have stayed dead, dammit. I guess that DR3 did help me in seeing Kirigiri for all her flaws (or apparent lack thereof). I gotta give DR3 credit for that.

Now, I kind of find her overrated and am now harbouring a totally sliiiiight dislike for her. Oh well. at least she's still shippable with Naegi

Unrelated: I still can't get over how oddly-shaped her head (in her sprites) is, though. Is her brain too big for her skull or something?

It's a shame the anime treated her like a waifu for Makoto rather than just have them working together to show their bond. Her fakeout death wouldn't have been as bad without wasting our time on a dream sequence fakeout too.

One of the best characters in DR. Her revival in dr3 was dumb but keeping her dead wouldve been even dumber. She's a one of the few examples of a "flawed" character where the flaws dont completely overtake any positive qualities that the character may have and turn them into a fucking unlikeable sack of shit that only exists as a plot device for conflict.

Also her relationship with Naegi is THE best in the series.

SHE SHOULDVE BEEN THE ONE TO SAVE NAEGI FROM THE BRAINWASHING

I think she knows how people express themselves emotionally and how they act based of those emotions. But doesnt know how to do it herself. She does get better at expressing how she feels Overtime. And yeah there isn't as much urgency to the trial when ya have 1 person who can figure out everything if they have enough clues. But honestly to begin with I don't think anyone is thinking. "Oh no. Everyone is gonna be executed cause we can't figure out the murder and we'll get a bad end" or anything like that. Save for the fifth trial and all.Figuring out Whether or not she's the murderer was pretty tense for me though

I hate Kirigiri. Even more after her fake out death. But I hated her before then. I do not like stoic characters for the most part. The only ones I like seeming to be the super heroic ones. I want to see a character react to their fullest.

She just seems like a fanfic character. A character that has no interesting themeing to them like Kokichi or Komaeda. And doen't have a cool personality like Togami or Chiaki. She is just nothing. There is nothing interesting behind her. But still has the same overpowered intelligence.

There is nothing I can say about her other then she is stoic and has some daddy issues that doesn't even manifest it'self in a cool or interesting way.

Even the characters I hate more then her I can say more about. Saionji is a bitchy little brat that was bullied all her life and manifests the pressure of her someday becoming the head of the family by hurting other people. I don't like her one tiny bit but at least I actually have something with her character to talk about.

Kirigiri is just nothing to me.

To be honest, the only thing that V3 did to make Kirigiri better is to take off her "Lone wolf". But still, Kirigiri is still a mary sue to my eyes

Character Discussion #58 - Makoto Naegi (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


The moment the anime producers decided to make the sdr2 cast innocent of their wrongdoings because of brainwashing is the moment Future arc became a mistake. Because instead of portraying a legitimately morally complex back and forth of 'was it right for Naegi to give world renown terrorists a second chance' they instead have to justify the Future Foundation being so foolish to arrest him for doing the right thing by making the leaders look bad in comparison to Naegi without Naegi having to be challenged in any way.

I was really excited for the despair arc to see how junko turned each member of the 77th class. Imo it was a terribly done. We have no idea how despair has changed their motivations at all (fuyihiko says he wants to put his gang on the right path...by destroying the world?) They have a literal blueprint from the Mikan post trial on how junko preyed on her weakness and desire. Why does she say she wants to make miracle medicine for the whole world? Considering she gets excited to nurse people because it's the only time she gets power over others, why isn't that the reason war and violence would appeal to her?

I would have much preferred scrapping the future arc altogether (Like you said, they defeat the entire moral conflict of makoto saving the despairs) and having 26 episodes that really dive in to how each member of the class was twisted and how they interacted and changed as despairs.

Despite how I was always more excited to see Despair arc episodes over Future arc, I think if they should have sacrificed one to give more time to another it should be despair arc that goes. No matter how they portray the 77th class's fall into despair it wouldn't be able to match up with the depth of fan interpretations with the time given to it. That or they just needed a super tight story that doesn't bounce around so much trying to cover this and that thing that also happened. Like if the Twilight murders ultimately had nothing to do with the fall then it was a waste of time to cover it (sure it fueled Hajime's decision but he didn't need extra baggage like Natsumi's death and Chiaki's friendship when his reason for becoming Izuru only needed the societal pressure in sdr2)

If they didn't split the anime up into two parts they wouldn't have needed the cheapest and easiest possible method to make the class Despairs. So if there were no despair arc then Future arc can be planned around the conflict it should have had with Makoto facing consequences because he risked restarting the Tragedy (if Junko succeeded in piloting the comatose members of the 77th class). Another possible bad end he risked was that he and his friends could have been trapped in the game, leaving The Symbol Of Hope Makoto lost to the world and only leaving the murderous fiend Toko/Genocider and the Hagakure behind to hold up the 78th class's image. He couldn't have counted on the happy ending sdr2 got, which was regarded as a "miracle" that happened. Like Nagito what Makoto did was with the best of intentions but at a high risk high reward scenario and sdr2 made a point with Nagito how bad that sort of thing can be, so DR3 portraying Makoto as 100% correct in his actions is a step back for the series.

So if there were no despair arc then Future arc can be planned around the conflict it should have had with Makoto facing consequences because he risked restarting the Tragedy (if Junko succeeded in piloting the comatose members of the 77th class).

This would be cool, and I think they could theoretically go with the "two sides idea" by also looking at the 77th survivors on Jabberwock Island (but these events would be occurring at the same time). Like how they would react to their mutilated bodies, discovering what they did, and what they need to do now. As Hajime stated, they have both hope and despair so their personalities might be a combination of both (iirc their AI personalities were supposed to completely replace their despair ones but Hajime ended up combined, so it's not unrealistic that it would happen to the rest).

Since the 77th class isn't decided on a side, Makoto is still in deep trouble with FF. Munakata probably assumes they are despairs and wants to kill them all and Makoto. Makoto probably wants to protect them because he believes they will willingly choose hope. Perhaps someone else pushes the idea of putting them back in the NWP and wiping them completely to make the FF's soldiers. Plus I'd prefer if they didn't force another killing game and could instead focus on how the FF is structured, how they fight despair, and how the factions influence their actions.

Munakata probably assumes they are despairs

Even at the end of sdr2 Byakuya wondered if the survivors weren't just still Despairs. Sure it was said that them staying behind to revive everyone was hopeful that they are recovered after the program, but anyone could twist that to say they are regrouping and it's irresponsible of Makoto to believe that they aren't just tricking him again if the FF know that Izuru hijacked the therapy machine to give an AI version of Junko another shot.

Making Future arc about a killing game is like they thought 'well what is danganronpa without a killing game of some sort?'. It's a cool idea to end the series on Makoto's faith in them paying off by the class coming in to rescue him and end the conflict themselves, but if they could have let go of the killing game and have an anime series centered on the moral conflict of what Makoto did they can still show up in the end and present themselves as being reformed in some way to get Makoto pardoned for treason.

100% this.

I like the idea of the AI taking on the form of Chiaki because of Class 77's subconscious desire to see her again (which I think is a really sweet way of saying that Class 77 definitely still had a chance at redemption after turning to despair), but the handling of it was fucking awful. Chiaki's death should've been something like the final straw or the starting point for the class' fall to despair not the SOLE reason for it. They really could've shown Junko's manipulative side either way and really elaborated on some of the things the SDR2 cast say during their FTEs (Kazuichi's trust issues, Ibuki's constant feeling of loneliness, Akane's do-or-die upbringing, etc.).

Man typing this out just reminds me of how much potential the anime missed out on given that they spent 24 fucking episodes on it. Feelsbadman.

Chiaki's death should've been something like the final straw or the starting point for the class' fall to despair not the SOLE reason for it.

Going into it I actually thought the students would kill Chiaki as a final oath to Junko.

As someone who was confused why she was a real person, I think they put way too much focus on her. When Hajime is transforming he flashbacks to her. Her dying is the focus of the brainwashing video for the 77th class. It cheapens these huge characters changes. We know Hajime's inferiority complex is one of the central ideas of his character and the anime implies that he's doing the operation because he has a crush on Chiaki and wants to be good enough for her. That can be a factor but shouldn't be all of it.

That's another thought too. They had SO many scenarios to choose from where Chiaki's death holds some actual weight outside of being brainwashing fodder, but they just had to go with the easiest way out.

Yeah I agree, she should've definitely played a big part with class 77's transformation and Hajime's decision to undergo the procedure, but making her the sole reason is pretty much undermining the depth of EVERY character. It basically shits all over Junko as a villain and her implied ability to perfectly manipulate people (lul brainwashing anime) as well as the entirety of Class 77 and their backstories. If the entire class just falls to despair because of some brainwashing video plot device what is even the point of their backstories and their clearly troubled pasts.

-2 points 4 months ago 
The reason they became UD was because of the brainwashing tech.

And UD =\= Falling into despair. An UD is a person who has a fetish for despair like Junko did, it'd be impossible for a person to have a fetish like that if they weren't already crazy in the first place and we know that majority of the DR2 cast wasn't crazy.

How do you reconcile what Mikan said "My beloved was the only one. That's right, the only one who never hated me. They forgave me and accepted me." with what the anime actually shown us of what happened?

I'm just going to pretend that the entire brainwashing thing never happened, it was clearly implieed from DR2 that each of the characters became manipulated due to their individual weaknesses/ insecurities , Mikan's reveal basically confirmed that. What ended up happening made the entire last few despair arc episodes terrible.

I like him, I don't think he did much or is that good of a character, in fact he's really boring and bland, but he's one of the nicest and most forgiving characters I've seen in a long time. I saw myself rooting for him the whole game. He's nice, kind, hopeful, optimistic and really, really forgiving, yes he's generic af, but he's admirable, and I love admirable characters, that's why Iduki's my flair. I could talk about his hope and development because it gets looked over a lot but I'm really lazy not gonna lie. Objectively, he's the worst protag and my second worst protagonist after Ryoko. Anyways, when it comes to DR3 he was really... "meh" to me, he didn't do much for me to love him like in DR1. He did fucking nothing, I mean he didn't do much in DR1, but he helped during the class trials. I used to like him a lot more forgetting DR3, but I still have to acknowledge that it's canon.

7/10 DR1, 5/10 DR3

I would just like to add that I think his brief appearances in SDR2 and UDG are actually where Makoto is his strongest, as he's shown to be determined to the point of recklessness, arguably stupidity, and endangerment, since he managed to finagle Byakuya and Kyoko to help him save known terrorists at risk of a fate worse than death. Of course, it worked out since he's Makoto Naegi, but when I think about it, his plan to try and rehabilitate the Remnants was an unnecessarily risky thing to do, and he still went with it, because he's a bleeding heart who believes that much. I think that's a nice development that doesn't get acknowledged often.

There's something a little...subversive about Makoto in DR1 that I really like. He's not particularly talented, not outrageously intelligent or brave, but he's not really the standard JRPG or anime protagonist. His greatest aspect and power is always, always his empathy and understanding that he's able to extend to his peers, which is usually a trait more assigned to female characters than male characters, and when applied to male characters, tends not to apply to main characters.

You really get the feeling if he wasn't around the DR1 cast would have ripped each other to absolute shreds, even more than they did in the actual game. And that makes him kind of a fun viewpoint character, who's likable mostly for his unending ability to give. I like him a lot in the games.

As compared to DR3 where he is mostly just. Deeply boring.

I generally don't like Makoto, but in DR3 the moment where he confronted Munakata and said that even if he had to kill Kyoko because she went totally despair he still doesn't regret knowing her. That raised my opinion of him considerably even though I'm sure it's an accident. I think that's the first time common sense prevailed in a series that generally like to blame all its problems on other people or brainwashing. The series is pretty much extreme examples of guys who burned LeBron's jerseys when he left Cleveland. Just because someone did something terrible to you doesn't mean you've to go back and renounce the fact that you ever knew this person. Heck, Kyoko threw him under the bus on her own will back in chapter 5, and you don't see Makoto complaining about how it'd be better if he turned on Kyoko back then. It's also important to acknowledge that in a world of brainwash videos of course there's a distinct possibility he'd have to kill the girl he loves. This again is something the series always avoid confronting even though people can be brainwashed pretty much any time.

Of course there's nothing else in the series that'd suggest Makoto has this kind of maturity, so I think it's just a pure accident, but it's still an impressive moment. That kind of insight makes him live up to the Ultimate Hope title that he otherwise never did anything to deserve. He probably should have said something similar to that when he confronted Junko back DR1. Although we don't actually know how the 78th class's daily life looks like, we can assume that Junko was indeed very close to all her classmates, and again that memory is real even if Junko only did it so she can kill them later. I think that's a far more relevant and meaningful point compared to the 'what's fiction???' thingy DRV3 has going.

Character discussion: I love him

[+13]End of discussion

You heard'em mods, time to lock up the thread

NEXT

Odd opinion, but I don't find Makoto a memorable character, but I absolutely prefer how they handle the protagonist role in DR 1 more than the other games.

Makoto isn't a terribly interesting character, and I feel DR 3 botched the delivery just like nearly everyone else. I don't find him a terribly interesting character who brings next to nothing as a character. Yes, he's ordinary and that's the point, but it's not an excuse to create someone who brings nothing to the table. His arc is pretty simple, and I don't expect anything particularly complex, but it's passable enough for the first game. Liken it to a faceless phantom character like the ultimate impostor. Just because they don't have an identity doesn't mean that's an excuse not to focus on them as a character and still have them contribute to the storyline.

DR 3 basically has the same issue that pretty much any dilemma in DR has. They start off with a good premise and pit two sides against each other in disagreement, then proceed to make one group absolutely in the wrong because one side has to be right. I don't mean that one side can't be the antagonist, but they have to be able to continually make points that you don't necessarily agree with, but can at least understand. UDG has the same problem with Komaru/Toko lecturing the adults because the game proceeds to make all the adults by association look like asses because Haiji is, and Danganronpa V3 does the same by making the cult as one dimensionally in the wrong as possible without ever pointing out the hypocrisies of the rest of the group.

Makoto mostly just kinda runs around a bit and the most egregious part as I brought up in Kyoko's discussion is that she's just used as a springboard for Makoto to face off against Munakata. Having Makoto in a fight scene was pretty cool, but we don't ever get to have anything interesting happen here. Maybe have Makoto try to deduce a way to stop the killings. They do toward the end, but only after a bunch of mostly nothing. The dilemma of the group saying Makoto is either in the right or wrong only works if they can arrive at a conclusion that represents both factions well, not just making one side a bunch of idiot dicks who end up being completely wrong, and the fact that the group was confirmed to be brainwashed only skews it more in Makoto's favor.

Wanna know Makoto's finest moments to me? Trial 2 of DR 1 and the last trial of DR2. I don't agree with people who say Makoto constantly needs help in DR1, particularly Byakuya and Kyoko. I wrote about it in my original post, so you can see it there. I think people have to remember that mystery games in general have logic that's kinda shaky at first that improves as the games progress, so I personally don't rank the intelligence of the characters for that reason.

Makoto ends up not even doing anything at the end of hope arc and it still felt like a waste. When he jumps in the virtual world in DR 2, he doesn't deliver the final blow, and it's ultimately the DR 2 cast making the decision, but Makoto's actions were still meaningful. Not only does he make a fantastic red herring for the mastermind before his arrival (seriously, I think the railroading in that case is pretty lazy, but nothing compares to hearing new world order when you read the email to Makoto) but he takes a genuine risk out of his belief, and the group almost does side with Junko. They wouldn't have even had the chance had Makoto not done anything, so he isn't the driving force behind the ending, but he is contributing still, and it helps to make his optimism not seem as plot empty and contrived if he's willing to take a risk for it and that risk nearly backfired.

One thing I absolutely prefer is how the protagonist is handled in this game. I feel like the later games kind of just roll with you being reliable because you're the protagonist, to the point where evidence contradicting you just sorta gets ignored, and I think the lying mechanic in V3 in general was a mess. Dr2-3 has a moment where you could reasonably be the suspect and people outright say they just trusted Hajime when he could have been lying. Nagito ultimately substantiates your testimony, but the fact that nobody even bothered questioning it was kind of a pain. Hell, even then Nagito's evidence with the ticket wasn't necessarily enough since Hajime could have been/had an accomplice or could have forced the information out of one of the victims. V3 I feel just kind of props the character up and I really appreciate the simplicity and feel of having to prove yourself and your claims in DR 1. Even if you weren't the suspect in two cases, the general feel to the class trials in having to substantiate what you say was something I appreciated. I also brought it up in Kyoko's, but I appreciate how the game doesn't feel obligated to make Makoto and Kyoko super lovey dovey and then kill one of them off to evoke tragedy…which of course DR3 went ahead and did.

My original Post:

Ask someone who prefers Hajime more what they prefer and you'll likely get responses like 1) He's more realistic, 2) He's smarter than Makoto ever was, and 3) They do more with Hajime.

Makoto is mostly there to be a trial of trust in a killing game. Trial 1 has Makoto betrayed in order to set up for the remainder of the trials and do something of Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulations theme of being able to believe in others after dealing with a large betrayal (end of JFA). Sure, fine.

In any event, Makoto continually focuses his attention on Monokuma, much like Asahina. It's not to say he doesn't have issues with other characters, judging from his reaction to killers like Leon and Celeste, but he still also places a large amount of blame on Monokuma for arranging the incident to begin with. He knows when to call someone out as an individual and when what someone else did was at fault. Take trial 5 where he gets voted as the killer for example. In that situation, everyone clearly didn't believe he really was the killer, but nobody knew what to do if Monokuma was forcing them to make a vote. It was just kind of a tough situation for them, which is why Makoto doesn't hold it against them.

Makoto is optimistic, yes…but it won't stop him from delivering the coup de grace when needed. Take trial 2 for example when he's got the final argument against Mondo ready. He doesn't not say anything, but is still quite respectful and clearly doesn't enjoy what he's doing. They sort of pushed this whole thing onto Hajime as well where he would say he doesn't want to go through with it, but his attitude during class trials never seemed to match that save for trial 5, where it felt like they were saving parts that should have been used in earlier trials just to make that part seem stronger.

We also get the fact that Makoto believes so strongly in that trust that he not only betrays the future foundation out of a disagreement in ideals, but jumps in the virtual world himself in order to give everyone a chance, which is in no way a small feat.

Last thing I really wanna call out are those "Makoto is so stupid" things. Some of it is just the nature of DR 1 itself since DR 2 is a little harder, but people make it out like Makoto is completely dependent on Byakuya and Kyoko. Trial 2 has Byakuya feeding Makoto information regarding Genocider to lead Makoto in a certain direction (when he knew the culprit) just the way Nagito does with Hajime, but even then even Byakuya got thrown off by the revelation that Chihiro was moved, and Makoto is still the one leading the trial in this situation. Kyoko generally comes in with assertions of her own, but it's not as if Makoto is just copying her or reliant on either one. Trial 3 begins with Makoto immediately calling bullshit the moment the trial begins. He doubts Hagakure is the killer and asks the big question of why you'd even kill two people to begin with. If you look at Byakuya's words here, even he believed Hagakure to be the killer, but changes his mind once Makoto gives his thoughts. Makoto isn't reliant on Byakuya in this case. If anything, it's the other way around. They do all contribute, but I think it's incorrect to say Makoto needs the others to get through the trial. Trial 4 is mostly just Kyoko focusing on the locked room mystery part of the trial while Makoto is the one pushing and pressing through the details about what everyone did there. Byakuya also got the answer wrong here despite being able to at least call the poison being used. Then in trial 5, we have Makoto and Kyoko being pitted against each other, so I see no reason why everyone is still saying he's an idiot that needs to be coddled.

That ignores the fact that Hajime is put in the exact same setup of DR 1 Trial 2 in his first trial with Nagito, the fact that he gets fed hints from Nagito in trial 3, copies what Nagito says himself in trial 4, and gets sidelined to a degree by Chiaki and Fuyuhiko in trial 5. My biggest gripe is that a lot of the things one character gets criticized for were done by the other character, who gets an entirely different reception for it. Makoto is by no means my number one character and not even the most memorable of the DR 1 cast, but he's been elevated more to a force than a character the way Junko is, which was clearly the goal of DR 1 in making him the ultimate hope by the end of the game. Hajime was set up to still remain a character, but more of a neutral party.

I like a lot of your points. It really helps seeing others perspective specifically when I'm trying to compare protagonists like Hajime and Makoto. However a few things I wanna put out there.

Ask someone who prefers Hajime more what they prefer and you'll likely get responses like 1) He's more realistic, 2) He's smarter than Makoto ever was, and 3) They do more with Hajime.

I definitely am one who prefers Hajime. I do find him more realistic but I think I would describe it more as relatable. He's how I would see myself in a situation like this, completely skeptical of everything and everyone, trying not to stand out but still trying to be helpful however he can, and I feel he definitely props himself up a bit so no one tries to mess with him too much. This is different from Makoto because he's not really concerned with looking good or if someone insults him and makes him look bad. Makoto is actively seeking out ways to be helpful to everyone as opposed to Hajime who just does his own thing and helps people as things come up. I can relate to hajime's mindset, while Makoto seems like some far off alien creature who never worries about much and just moves forward with infinite hopefulness.

I also don't think Hajime is smarter at all. In SDR2 he's actually really reliant on Nagito and Chiaki a lot throughout most the game. Makoto does get help from Kyoko and Byakuya but is good at piecing things together himself. That's why we see Makoto be shocked by very little during trials and Hajime seem shocked quite often during them.

As for doing more with Hajime over Makoto, I'm not sure about that but if it's true, it's probably because he gets more air time in his game. Like there's more interesting filler stuff he's apart of in the chapters of SDR2 as opposed to DR1. Also I think he gets more growth as a character than Makoto. He doesn't start out with a lot of confidence and slowly builds it up while Makoto seems much more comfortable in his own skin to begin with before his growth.

Makoto is optimistic, yes…but it won't stop him from delivering the coup de grace when needed. Take trial 2 for example when he's got the final argument against Mondo ready. He doesn't not say anything, but is still quite respectful and clearly doesn't enjoy what he's doing. They sort of pushed this whole thing onto Hajime as well where he would say he doesn't want to go through with it, but his attitude during class trials never seemed to match that save for trial 5, where it felt like they were saving parts that should have been used in earlier trials just to make that part seem stronger.

It's understandable that Hajime has to clarify he doesn't wanna do this because during those moments everyone is either defending a suspect or blaming Hajime for pointing fingers and asking hard questions. The cast in SDR2 is way more actively trying to be friends with each other than the DR1 cast so of course they would yell at Hajime for pointing fingers at Mikan, Gundham or Chiaki. Meanwhile in DR1 the majority of the cast isn't as friendly and close knit and more people don't have a problem pointing fingers or stressing out a suspect. So people don't grill Makoto and he doesn't have to justify himself as to why he's doing what he's doing to everybody.

So yeah I prefer Hajime but because he's a more interesting, relatable, developed character. Doesn't mean I dislike Makoto but he's not the better protagonist in my view. I can respect your opinion though.

it's always nice read your comments; anyway, reading your others comments, i guess you protags ranking is:

Kaede>>>Makoto>Hajime>>Shuichi

Having kaede that high when she gets the least amount of screen time the only reason people like her so much is because of the end of chapter 1 lmao

As someone who loves Akamatsu, I can assure you that « because of the end of chapter 1 » is far from being the reason that most people like her that much. Quality of screentime is far more preferable than quantity.

-1 points 4 months ago 
More or less. It should also be clear that, aside from Kaede, I don't really care for any of the protags that much, and even Kaede I like the idea of more since she didn't get much time to do much.

I figured Kaede is a lot like Sayaka who managed to kill herself before the plot can ruin her. I'm sure if she was the actual protagonist she'd end up being a female version of typical protagonist but since she died early, you can't say for sure!

Sees Kaede first

Me : GOOD, VERY GOOD ^ - ^

ahem On another note, I know you aren't the biggest fan of UDG but what are your thoughts on Komaru ?

I think Komaru, minus the completely unnecessary fanservice, works just fine. It's another "ahoge becomes confident" arc, but I can live with it since her character by nature is going to be compared to her brother, and it makes sense to have her focus on her character relative to her brother.

Most of my issues with UDG stem from Toko's character and I absolutely hate her relationship and dynamic with Komaru. Not only that, but she's a big source of the game portraying you as 100% in the right for an OP serial killer and a girl with a device specifically designed to stop the Monokuma threat preaching to a group of unarmed adults about how they're cowards for not fighting back.

Komaru herself I think is fine if they did away with all the panty shots.

DR1 he was a pretty bland character, but at least he did a solid during the trials and investigations. Despite his lesser role in 2 I still found him much more likable there as it showed some of the teeth that he had even as a stereotypical shonen optimist, going against the future foundation in order to give the remnants of despair at least a chance at redemption.

Come DR3 and that goes straight down the toilet. Plot armor and blatant writer favoritism aside, he does next to nothing during the final killing game and basically served only as a plot device for munakata and juzo who are weak characters to begin with imo.

The best parts of Makoto's character in the first game involved his relationship with Kyoko. Not only that, his average everyman status was a good choice to place him in contrast with all the eccentric personalities, and that, plus his general faith in his friends, did make it a bit more believable when it came time for Makoto to really take charge in the final trial and the reveal of his real talent. Buuuuuut it doesn't change that very little of him is all that interesting. Which is fine, he was written that way, but still. Regardless, he's a perfectly serviceable protag in the context of the first game.

His reduction to Hope Jesus in DR3 was awful and kind of made me despise him though. When everything he does, even things that by all means should be a totally horrible idea, ultimately pay off with zero consequences, and whole characters were designed and written just to make him look better by comparison. And he just...doesn't do anything of use in the whole show. Which I could be okay with, you would think it would be a prime motivation for some development later on especially when he sees someone that isn't afraid to take serious action when needed (albeit more harshly than necessary), but nothing really comes of it? He's just a useless waste of space who literally has to be carried by Aoi for 80% of the series, and he doesn't take anything from that? We're supposed to root for him as a protagonist? It's kind of insulting, really.

It's probably the closest I've had to a total 180 on a character. The only reason it's not a complete 180 is because I never really thought much of him to begin with, but even that was much, much, much better than what DR3 gave us.

He's just a useless waste of space who literally has to be carried by Aoi for 80% of the series, and he doesn't take anything from that? We're supposed to root for him as a protagonist? It's kind of insulting, really.

I mean, I guess you forgot that it wasn't his fault that his NG essentially crippled him and he felt incredibly useless due to it. And that he potentially saved everyone there by making Munakata go back to his senses.

He was indeed the main character-kun. In all seriousness, he's just fine. Judging DR3 portrayals vs. judging DR game portrayals feels wrong, like debating between just the fries vs. a full combo with sides and a drink.

He was a nice MC in DR1 and an interesting addition in DR2/DR:AE.

Then DR3 ruined everything, as usual.

He is small, fluffy, and full of hope. That's all I need to love him.

Hang on, I have something I prepared earlier, right here.

Makoto continues his reign as most hated character in the canon, and this time the others are out for blood. In addition to the multiple attempts to get him convicted of murder in DR1, up to him actually being convicted as part of the plot, now we have people literally trying to murder him and nearly murdering other people to get to him. At least this time he's got backup instead of just getting a few vague hints.

Tengan even tried to force Makoto's girlfriend to murder him with her NG code, so it seems things weren't as amiable between them as the old man tried to make it seem. I daresay that Juzo almost seems downright forgiving when you consider that he could simply have let Makoto die and nobody would have been any the wiser, but he chose to save him, perhaps hoping to stick it to the others one last time by saving the guy they were trying to get killed.

Okay enough joking around, now time for everyone's favorite part, talking about his place in the narrative: Makoto probably shouldn't have been the main character of DR3 Future Arc. I mean, we had Diet Naegi Ryota right there, and making Naegi the center of the plot feels like it hamstrung things a bit. For example, Munakata's villain syndrome feels like it happened predominantly to give Naegi an imminent threat, when that wouldn't have been necessary if he had just been a character and the story was focused on someone else. Not to mention that the final decision, the climax that could have made or broken everything in the dangan-verse, came down to Ryota and Naegi was almost irrelevant to its outcome, while Ryota had only had maybe an hour of screentime up until then. It just feels awkward overall.

I think making the hope question the center of Future arc was a mistake as well. Makoto was basically forced to take up the "cause" of Hope in DR1 because Junko was pushing despair and doing everything she could to get him killed, and "hope" was literally his only chance of survival. Up until the last chapter, he had been perhaps more forgiving than most, but still generally sensible and smart enough to get through the trials with only a little bit of interference from his allies...

Where am I going with this? I think his role as Ultimate hope should've been a much more symbolic one, with him trying to get people to cooperate but ultimately being pragmatic when questions of safety vs belief came up if he didn't have real reason to believe things would work out (such as having the Ultimate Detective pushing him to take the risk). Instead, hope was made out to be almost equal in importance to the killing game itself and Naegi puts his own neck on the line so he can talk to a clearly unhinged man with a sword. Worth mentioning, I don't like the whole hope vs despair theme to begin with, so your mileage may vary.

Anyway, long live Naegg head, mighty hope lord of the Dam-gam rompers.

My theory is that Tengan organized his NG codes alphabetically by first name (which would be weird in the culture, but he's crazy anyway) and since Kyosuke is next to Kyoko, he ended up swapping the motives on accident. I don't think the leader of the Future Foundation would even pay attention to minor details like Kyoko and Makoto's relationship which is totally meaningless in the grand scheme of things. Well, Munakata doesn't need any motivation to kill Makoto, but Tengan probably didn't know that. On the other hand not being able to open doors will make it impossible for Kyoko to investigate alone and in theory the DR1 kids aren't important enough for Tengan to purposely try to off them early on which is why they at least didn't get any NG code of the 'breathing' variety.

I've always found Makoto to be compassionate in a very genuine way, he's a character I really enjoy.

In DR3 he doesn't too much until the end, he has Aoi run him around for 9 episodes then he beats up Kyosuke (emotionally). I did enjoy his speech to Kyosuke about how even if Kyoko had been despair he'd still be glad she was his friend, it's probably his best line in the anime if not his best line period.

Part One
steps out of his bunker After the anime I was kinda hard enough on him, and that pushed me to reconsider a few things about that Egg xD. So back when I played DR1 I never considered Naegi that good of a character or even one of the best in the series, like at all.

All-in-all I didn't mind him that much back then in the first game, he had a role, he sticked to it and it was well enough. He still kinda irritated me when people were treating him like shit and he didn't have much to say about it, or some of the things he did (just straight up forgiving Kirigiri who threw him off the bus immediately along with everyone who thought that he was the culprit and after they continue to treat him like shit with just a few lines and such) was kinda too "eh" for me). I don't consider Hinata to be that perfectly handled or more smarter but I felt he had more hand on some matters and more normal reactions to things (again, most of the time) which made him better for me to play as IMO. That's on his profile though.

I maintain that Naegi was at his best in the ending of SDR2, cuz while he was taking maybe a bit too much of screentime here even if it was justified kinda, the actions he made against Future Foundation and all that to "save" the Remnants made him waaay more interesting in my eyes because of the conflict introduced here : saving those Remnants because he thought they could return to good is a bold move, but what said that it could be a good idea or not ? By saving them, there could still be a chance for them to redeem themselves, but would that be good considering how much damage they made to the whole world, and would it even be possible ? Then, not saving them and doing it the way it was originally intended — and by that killing them, then you just become as extreme as them. That's an interesting issue raised here and a great source of conflict because no one between the FF and Naegi was 100% on the right, but of course instead of continuing the tradition of "breaking dichotomies and not everything is black and white purely" this series has established, we just take the very lazy cliché thing possible to write.

I didn't mind Naegi when going into DR1 and 2, but it was in AE and 3 when it took a nosedive to me.

I still really like AE a hell of a lot but from chapter 3 and onwards we had Naegi which, again, was okay since there was a reason, but then let's just scream and put down everyone's throats everywhere and almost everytime how much of a hero Naegi is for defeating Junko and being the True Hero... when DR1 established it was mostly a group effort since it wasn't just Naegi who pushed the buttons of the voting, it was all the survivors, so it just feels disingenuous to me.

It ties down to the one big issue I have with Naegi that it seems like the writers are just putting him in the center of it all and just make him look good by just twisting every character around him to just his benefit. It's not an issue only he has (looking at you, certain V3 character) of course, but while making a character more of a focus isn't a bad idea in itself (though it's bad in general for Danganronpa if you want the story more focused on an ensemble of characters), but twisting every character around only one by making them look good is bad writing and a terrible way to handle things in a story for me.

And of course this has to continue in DR3 when some people of the new cast can just never shut up about how Naegi is just sooo great about DEFEATING THE GREAT JUNKO ENOSHIMA BLAHBLAHBL- oh wait, not everyone as Munakata and Sakakura were still going against him, thus losing the fandom's favors as it's a Golden Rule to Not Hurt the Hope Precious Boi if you don't want people to weirdly insult you or anything I am not kidding that was a thing back then like you HAD to love Naegi or that would just make you a hater. Now, the setup for a good conflict works here, as Munakata makes it clear that Naegi can be dangerous with his ideology of believing that just by not doing anything everything will sort out as long as you believe (which is dangerous)... and on the reverse Munakata's method isn't the solution to everything (as he's also naive with thinking that eradicating despair to see hope — like a distorted form of perfectionism). Yukizome even told the moral at the beginning of the story that he and Munakata must join forces, try and understand each other and compromise (which I'll get into later). What would make a very compelling story here would be that Naegi isn't completely in the right, neither is it completely in the wrong, and same goes for Munakata, but of course they had to fuck that up with the brainwashing angle.

Part Two
I'm not getting two ways about it, the brainwashing is shit, and not of that "it was stated before" nonsense, the issue isn't that there is brainwashing, it's how they use it that matters, and yeah if it was the only reason to explain it in 12 episodes then... don't waste those episodes for that and as writers they should try to be more in control of what they want to handle as a story. I won't even get into "But Junko might've been lying" bullshit because that then brings out the issue of why was it necessary to happen and by just saying that such individual might have been lying back then then you just don't care about what you set up games ago. And even without the lie excuse, it doesn't change anything : if you say it wasn't brainwashing then it's interesting because those fucked up kids we learned about had a dilemma and a conscious choice to follow Junko. With the brainwashing angle (along with how the anime was flanderizing them), they are just victims like the rest.

That of course automatically renders the conflict in Mirai-hen pointless, annoying, dumb, and boring, since now instead of seeing two flawed individuals sorting this out and such, we know just see Munakata as this one dumbass who is just an irredeemable jerk and Naegi was the one to Open His Eyes and such, as everyone expects that the Hero designated by the audience to win over everyone who Opposes him... but then what's even the point of offering a conflict in the story in the first place, or a possibility for the hero to be flawed and be re-examined or such... at this point I just wondered why was I even watching if the whole thing was just « Hey, you know that boy is just going to be this McGuffin for a good part of the story then when he does his thing all must bow down to him or instead stay as Bad People ».

It's also worse when it comes down to his portrayal in this anime but there are a lot of moments when Naegi just does really asshole things or was just self-centered in DR3 and it really made me despise him at those moments, mostly because it wasn't consistent at all. Examples :

There is the moment when he talks to Komaru and is glad that his sister is still alive and all while not thinking about Asahina being back there not being that lucky to have a sibling alive, and after he doesn't even do shit to her on that point.
Speaking of which, his thoughts about his sister isn't much about her doing great in Towa City, it's mostly "I must survive because she needs me to go save her ».
There is — of course — Kirigiri's entire death that just seems to revolve less about her and more about Naegi being sad, even her revival, which is quite fucked up considering it's her sacrifice, and — Come the heck on, Kodaka, your Manpain trope is overused already four times by now and you had to repeat it again in V3. So damn original.
During his showdown with Munakata (which is more like a « Crying Reunion For Dead Girlfriends ! Let's See who Has The Biggest Manpain »), he just comes off as patronizing to me to just try and reason Munakata and offer sympathy to him... by NOT genuinely offering sympathy and just going off on how Yukizome's situation was just the same as Kirigiri's with his big speech (YUKIZOME WAS A REMNANT AND KIRIGIRI WASN'T. WHAT THE HECK WOULD YOU KNOW ABOUT IT NAEGI) Why not mentioning Maizono instead ? She wasn't brainwashed but she also was a closest victim of being manipulated by Junko and such. Mentioning instead a character who just let herself die for him is more a dick move than some inspirational stuff.
There is the fact that Sakakura, who was still an ass to him, plays his Plot Device part and tries to save Naegi nonetheless but not only Naegi doesn't tries to help him when he's bleeding the shit out, he doesn't mention the fact that he saw Sakakura bleed out until a certain moment to Munakata. Nope, this guy's just a dick, let's just wait until it's SO OBVIOUS BUT TOO LATE that it would be him later.
And in the end, just because Naegi said it in the end of SDR2 that « miracles can be possible », the SDR2 cast just wakes up totally unharmed and healthy, thus proving how he was just always justified from the beginning and then the people who just lost it all are just poor losers because the story didn't portray them as some part of Right into them. Then he just comes off into the most profitable position of a headmaster for seemingly no reason (and it's not like we would repeat history again) as the universe just gives him his waifu back just because.
There is much more and I realize I can be quite vague at points, but the big issue of Naegi in this anime is that portraying one character as the Always Right person for no other reason than the Story needs to is not a good move for the series.

No Kodaka, I just don't give a lot of crap in the end that I had to sit through an entire anime of just making one character good to the expanse of good writing. People aren't noticing those issues since Naegi's viewpoint is just consistently viewed as the Only Correct one through the whole anime. Just the whole praising for something this meh (funnily though unlike someone else he doesn't get branded a Mary Sue — not saying he's one but that's quite amusing) when we just get him propped on a pedestal, not suffering any consequences for any wrongdoings, wrongdoings that are just negated by the whole show to make them Likeable and Right the whole time, as Naegi doesn't get any development during the whole thing, no big lesson learned, and no flavor added to his character overall. We're that close to a white sheet of paper.

hmm, I should go back into that bunker now even though Christmas might be over xD ...wait it already is

You been on TVTropes for a long while haven't you?

But aside from that, the whole killing game really ruined the idea for that conflict and just made it the most shallow killing game ever. I wish Makoto was a little more human on the situation and not just be a back warmer for Hina.

I wasn't on it at all actually, haha.

Yeah, and that can also be said for DR3 as a whole. Mostly because it was a foregone conclusion because of Kibou-hen being written first and then the whole story flowed from here, but still.

Makoto is pretty alright. In my view he falls to worst protagonist by default. It might be due to DR1 not having the most colorful characters around him like SDR2 and DRV3's whacky cast but I don't think so. If I put him in Hajime's spot or Kaede/Shuichi's spot I still feel like he would be pretty bland. I mean I like the optimism and he's actually smarter than people give him credit for but he literally has no original personality beyond "Oh hey I'm hopeboi! I want to help everyone I can with my generic protagonist role!".

If we look at his hopeboi status his most notable achievements are convincing the DR1 cast to venture outside in spite of the danger, him being adamant about helping out the remnants of despair, and breaking through Munakata's badly scripted personality to help end the killing game in DR3 (a little late though perhaps?). Is he really deserving of this title? Well I guess so considering no one else could of done these things or actually made the difference like he did. But really he kind of just acts on his own beliefs and has amazing friends like Kyoko and Byakuya to back him up through most these hardships. Saying this I guess his talent would be making really good friends and having them want to bail him out.

So yeah my view on him is he's good, with a nice appearance and no reasonably interesting traits. Add having little to no backstory and his protagonist role is complete. Ultimately I like him but I still think he falls short of all the other protagonists.

I think Makoto's "blandness" really made the first game good. At least when it came to class trials.

Because all the characters just seemed they were better than you in some way. Like Kirigiri and Togami. IT felt like you were the one taking the backseat when they ever discussed details over the trial that was very relevant and helped solve the case.

Compared to DR2 and even V3 it felt like you were carrying the whole class during the trial. That or someone was just being an dick by personally screwing with you (AKA Nagito and Kokichi)

To be honest, I didn't like Makoto all that much. I mean...he was fine, I suppose, but compared to the other protagonists in the series and the other characters in the game he premiered in, he's...alright.

I don't understand how dr3 ruins some characters for others. Even though the plot is a bit of a mess I don't think any of the main cast breaks character.

I know, I think DR3 affected many people who were hung up on their headcanons about how things should have been and that affects their ability to analyze something without bias.

At first I liked him, he was clumsy and even cute but was also intelligent. Then Chapter 6 arrived and he became Kirito #2 for the rest of the series.

Bleh before, still bleh now.
Makoto's type of character is one that i think never reaches its potential. A not very apt but still somewhat good comparison is Deku from Boku no Hero Academia. The hopeful, awe-inspiring underdog normal kid who pulls through. A talent like "Ultimate Hope" makes me think of someone who just radiates with powerful, unbreakable determination and optimism. V3, kinda
It's a superman kind of talent. It's a personality that allows the character to connect with the audience and make them feel what they feel very strongly. Makoto could be that, similarly to how every action Junko takes is just very impactful and villainous(besides how she acts in trials), every action Makoto takes post-DR1 should at least feel heroic and inspiring.
Instead, during most of DR3, Makoto is kinda just...dumb. He's optimistic, but it doesn't reach the level where it's helpful or inspiring. He's just a dude being carried by his friends, who's still easily shocked, his ultimate hope isn't ever present in his characterization, it's only there in select moments and for the rest of the time he's just the "poster boy for blind optimism". It makes him feel boring since he lacks any other fun character traits to compensate. Worst protag.

I'm actually kinda surprised at how much hate he's getting! I mean, I get it, he's kinda a bland character as far as personality goes. But I think it's less that Makoto is bland and more that everyone else around him is much more colorful.

Like, yeah, compared to Byakuya's callous arrogance, Kyoko's stoic-but-mysterious personality, Aoi's over abundance of energy at any point, and, of course, Toko's...Toko-ness, Makoto seems kinda tame. But I don't think that makes him bad at all!

I think he's actually a pretty good character in a lot of ways--he's relatable, he's kinda humorous, and watching his reactions to events and interactions with other people was genuinely enjoyable. That said, he is very much the stereotypical "just enough personality to be a character, not enough personality to break player immersion" protagonist, so I can see where when you compare him to people like Hajime and Shuichi/Kaede, he's less interesting. Still, I'd say it's more a matter of him just being less eccentric than his classmates than him being a bad character overall.

Design wise, I do really like him. He nails the protagonist look. Personality wise, he is pretty bland, but I really like the development he goes through in C1 of DR1.

In C1, the whole point of his development there is to show that people will betray you and that the killing game is for real. Up until that point, Makoto doesn't think that anyone will kill anyone else, and he believes that Monokuma was the reason Sayaka died. Of course, this isn't the case, and Makoto ends up finding out the reality of the killing game. This helps really set the tone of the game to the player, showing that there will be deception and lies from everyone. This means that later cases can be more complex, as the player knows to distrust people.

I sometimes feel like people are way too harsh on Naegi because he's "boring" but it is easy to call him that too. He was the template protagonist and his plainness was kind of the point for him. However, every now and again he does get his badass moments. For all of DR3's faults, his "final battle" with Munakata was a highlight for sure.

His biggest fault is that he's a little too perfect. The other protagonists in the series, including his own sister, have notable faults. But all of Makoto's faults can be seen as positives, so it's maybe a little difficult to get attached to him. Which I guess is why he's been slipping in popularity over the years by comparison because everyone else is building up on the foundations that Makoto laid out.

makoto, like junko, functions more in the story as a vessel of his particular theme/ideology than an actual character. much as junko is the unyielding force of despair, makoto represents empathy and fairness and all things good. it makes sense to me that that kind of character would be better suited as the protagonist of a video game, where the player's personality and opinions fill in the gaps, versus the protagonist of an anime, where that sort of flatness and shallowness is a real liability.

I never cared much for Makoto back in DR1 because of his lack of growth and depth, but DR3 took him in a terrible direction. He was treated as our lord and savior who could do no harm and some of the plots and characters were literally designed around making Makoto look good. It's made even worse since the anime sets up Makoto and Munakata with clashing ideologies, but it's rendered completely pointless since Makoto suffers no consequences and doesn't change his way of thinking while Munakata loses his best friends and is treated as an idiot by the anime. Just a terrible example of someone being a creators pet.

I also want to add that Makoto was honestly such an asshole in the anime and it bothers me that he never gets called out on some of the stuff he says.

Naegi was just the boring self insert in DR1. Boring, but not offensive. Then DR3 is where he just got a whole lot worse and made him become one of my most hated characters. I was actively cheering for Munakata and Sakakura to kill him but I know it wouldn't happen because of his ridiculous plot armor. He does virtually nothing 90% of the anime yet is treated as the big hero at the end and will be known as the guy who helped stopped another killing game when it was Sakakura who ended the game and the DR2 cast who stopped Mitarai. Then we have him reopen the school that started this mess in the first place and become headmaster. It was where I just really, really didn't want to see Naegi ever again. Was so sick of everyone kissing his ass over stuff he didn't really do on his own or at all.

Oh boy, i've been waiting for this one, Makoto in DR3 is by far the most annoying protagonist i've encountered in any sort of entertainment yet, the way the plot works in his favor beacuse it feels like it is the main reason i detest him Dr3, i had no problems with his DR1 portrayal, hell i even found him relatable in that game, but in DR3? The favoritism here is so apearant and insulting that it becomes a clear middle finger to the rest of the cast.

Not to mention that he does absolutely nothing in DR3, Dr1 he didn't really do much either but atleast he helped with the investigations and the trials, but in Dr3? He doesn't do jack shit in the times we see him other than being carried by Aoi, i would even dare to say he did less stuff than Ryota.

[+13]Most annoying protagonist in any entertainment

Counter point: Protags of Sonic Boom.

I SURE DO LOVE RINGS!!!

BOUNCE PAD!!!

THIS BUTTON MUST DO SOMETHING!!!

Steps in knee high water

WABLEGABLEGJGU

BOOST PAD!!!

CAN NEVER GRAB TO MANY RINGS!!! (have been at 100 for past hour)

We don't talk about this at all, that is why. XD

[+13]Even Sonic's voice actor acknowledged how stupid that got

i would even dare to say he did less stuff than Ryota.

C'mon now. Makoto stopped Munakata's rampage. What did Ryota do besides stalk Kyoko?

Hold of Juzo from attacking the others twice,Tried to help Kyoko with her investigations that will lead towards the attacker.

Don't get me wrong, Ryota barely did anything useful here, but when i see Makoto, the guy who literally helped with alot of things in the first game, do next to nothing here feels like he did even less than the others who didn't help much (with the exeption of Bandai of course).

Hold of Juzo from attacking the others twice

Ok, still less than fighting a crazy Munakata head on

Tried to help Kyoko with her investigations that will lead towards the attacker.

He didn't help at all, he was just following her and letting her do her thing.

Don't get me wrong, Ryota barely did anything useful here, but when i see Makoto, the guy who literally helped with alot of things in the first game, do next to nothing here feels like he did even less than the others who didn't help much (with the exeption of Bandai of course).

What did you want him to do? The DR3 killing game is not like the DR1 killing game. You had no down time, no proper investigation time and no class trial and Makoto had someone hot on his pursuit almost everytime alongside a NG code that essentially crippled him.

His usual gimmick of trying to mediate and make people compromise was also initially useless because Munakata was dead set on his view of what hope is meant to be.

I personally think he is kinda bland, but he must have done something right to charm Kyoko

Naegi was a Gary Stu for entire DR3

Character Discussion #59 - Aoi Asahina (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Hina's role in DR1 is acting as a foil to Byakuya, all playing on the angle of how to trust others in a killing game. Byakuya was clearly in it for himself, always considered the possibility of being betrayed, and would constantly exploit or at the very least any loophole in the class rules he could.

Hina takes a different approach. She sees this as a battle of us versus Monokuma. She doesn't accept the terms of the killing game. Even though she doesn't like all the other students, she realizes that Monokuma is the greater threat and casts that aside and focuses all of her hatred toward Monokuma. In that light, she's making a very mature response to this kind of situation. They establish this kind of personality in her FTEs, as one of the first things they let you know about her is that she participates in several team sports. Just like in her sports, even if she doesn't like you or if you rub her the wrong way, she will still respect any suggestions you have for the group and will lend a hand if needed.

She doesn't care for Fukawa, but she takes time to help when she passed out in chapter 2. She doesn't appreciate Celeste's condescension, but is still very respectful of Celeste's night time rule suggestion and feels incredibly guilty about it the one time she breaks it, going as far as wanting to keep the rule in effect even after Celeste's execution. She didn't find Yamada too reliable and found him a bit pervy, but still cries over his death, and so on.

A lot of people make out Byakuya's thinking as the clear smarter choice, but if applied, I don't see much point in actively pissing everyone off, going to a set location every day (he'd frequent the library, so anyone could make use of that and kill him), not traveling in groups, and so on. I understand being cautious and am not suggesting Hina's method is perfect—both have their set ups and downs—but Byakuya's frame of thinking is risky as well.

Hina is attentive to what others and usually wears her heart on her sleeve. She's one of the few characters that will constantly question and wonder how people think and feel. She asks what's going through the killer's head in chapter 1's investigation. She wonders what kind of regrets Chihiro may have had and is the one who caught on to some of her unusual behavior around being so uncomfortable around the women in chapter 2. She's the one questioning the most of "what the hell is up with you and how can you be so calm about the fact that you're gonna die" to Celeste in chapter 3 and even is curious about how Alter Ego may feel about losing its other half based on one of her lines in chapter 3.

She expects everyone to pitch in with group efforts…which is frustrating in a killing game where everyone is focused on themselves, not caring about each other, or being Byakuya. If there's one takeaway from her FTEs, it's that she has to go for gold at pretty much anything she does and she doesn't like setting the bar low.

There's her relationship with Sakura. Sakura is a foil to Asahina, but in a different respect to Byakuya. Both are top athlete women having to deal with sexist comments and feel that they have to cast aside their femininity in order to be strong. Asahina respects how direct and honest Sakura is (Sakura is one of the few people that will actually tell you what she saw in her video in ch. 1's motive, for example. It's pretty clear what they were implied to be, but Sakura elaborates in detail what she saw.)

Sakura spends the night with Asahina in her room the night of Sayaka's murder. This was mostly done so Asahina's testimony doesn't backfire and so that she can be ruled out, but it's much more powerful when chapter 4 comes and you discover that Sakura was a traitor ordered to kill and that Asahina could have easily been the first victim had Sakura just been a one dimensional traitor.

But Hina isn't aware of this. Hina respects honesty, someone who can stay true to themselves, and teamwork, right? So here comes chapter 3 when the liar queen is up on the gallows. Hina is the one questioning her, and the choice of Celeste being the killer makes for a good transition into the next chapter.

Asahina: How can human life mean so little to you!?... You sound so passionate, but...you were really able to kill your own friends for it?

Celeste: Isn't it terrifying how different our values are? There's simply no room for understanding.

Celeste sticks to lying, even as she's about to die, but imagine how much of a stab this is to Hina. Imagine hearing this if you're Sakura and you've been hiding from your best friend the whole time. We might as well have Hina say "oh well, at least Sakura isn't anything like that" followed by Sakura pulling her shirt collar.

Chapter 4 comes, Sakura is outed. Hina's first assumption? Sakura isn't the traitor. After she accepts that Sakura is, she then assumes she was forced into it or was blackmailed in some way. She at the very least still trusts Sakura and still considers her a friend. It bubbles over horribly and everything in this chapter is deliberately set up to force the dilemma of the entire series—the dilemma of trust—onto all the characters. The group starts fighting and Hina utters one of her coldest lines in the game to Byakuya.

Asahina: You disgust me! You're...you're a monster! To say something like that...it should have been you. You should have been the one to die!

Byakuya sees Sakura as a problem. Hagakure sees how she can benefit them thinking "oh, well if she kills the mastermind, that'd be cool for me." Toko/Genocider do nothing but dickride Byakuya and insult Sakura. You're worried about your friend, nobody around you seems to give a shit.

Sakura chose to trust in everyone and meets with everyone to see how she can earn their forgiveness. They might not trust her, but Sakura chooses to trust everyone. Hina sees that trusting in these monsters resulted in Sakura being assaulted twice and her being driven to suicide. Hina's had it. Fuck them. Fuck working together, they clearly aren't interested. They hurt my best friend.

Hina wants to go for gold, she wants to defeat the mastermind as a group. But that just isn't happening. She wasn't good enough to save Sakura and guilted Sakura more. Hina casts aside that and instead decides to take everyone down. Her attitude this whole time has been " focus on the bigger problem at hand here," but now she sees that nobody else cares about that. During the trial, she learned that the others didn't even care. Hagakure didn't care about Sakura and was just relieved that he wasn't the killer; Genocider was more upset that she broke one of the rules of her murder philosophy. Togami outright hoped Sakura would die.

Nobody but Hina was interested in helping Sakura. Makoto and Kyoko don't have any contribution to this, but they're more focused on Alter Ego affairs at this point in the game. Trial 4 was designed so that everyone was there to accept the terms of the game. I think this part could have been handled better, particularly her opinion of Kyoko and Makoto who didn't really do anything, but I can also understand it if your best friend committed suicide and you feel the others have pushed you. I'd probably do the same, honestly.

This results in Hina acting incredibly out of character the whole trial. She resorts to lying and deception to get through the trial. Makoto notices how strange she's acting during the trial and decides not to cast a vote yet purely on the basis that it's friggin' Hina and the evidence is too obvious. Sound familiar? Like how Hajime didn't want to vote in trial 5 purely on the basis that it's Nagito? Then they dug a little deeper to find more contradictions? Hina gave us the single satisfying moment in the game, she caught Byakuya contradicting his own preaching of "it's dangerous to assume everyone thinks the way they you do." Sakura and Hina don't act purely on cost/benefit analysis. Nobody does fully. We're human.

Isn't it twisted how they rewrote a trial based on a combination of Celeste's murder plan and the misdirecting plan from Asahina?

We are then given Sakura's true thoughts in her suicide note. Unfortunately, we'll never get to see the full contents of her note. Hina sees that in the end, her best friend would sooner die than take her friend's life. Hina is someone who had her beliefs nearly come crashing into the ground, and while Sakura's character goes from being an invincible god brought down and shown to have insecurities and humanity, Hina goes from a normal girl brought to the brink of despair and is shown to be elevated to a stronger status after this point. I will concede that she's kinda just there after chapter 4. I was hoping to see an incident kind of like Sonia getting pissed in Ch 5 of DR 2 because of the events of Ch 4, but oh well.

Last is those "she's so dumb!" comments. Hina starts pushing harder from chapter 3 onward. Chapter 3 would make sense for her to be incorrect in because this is the first trial she began guarding the crime scene in after she took Mondo's place. She doesn't have the luxury of going around everywhere and seeing all the evidence needed to put together that Hagakure couldn't have been the killer. It's obvious for someone like Makoto. But if you're limited to one space and get to go see a robot costume at the last minute, you're still not gonna be able to change your opinion, especially when one of the victims told you the killer is "Yasuhiro." Chapter 4 was her actively trying to misdirect the trial, so she had her own agenda here. Trial 5 is supposed to be an unfair trial, and she doesn't really have any dumb moments here anyway. When people bring up the "Hina's so dumb" thing, they're usually referring to chapter 3, and most of the points she brings up she's only asking about because she didn't get to do a full investigation.

After rewatching some parts of DR1 I've really come to appreciate how the story is told over V3 by far. The mysteries are complete shit--that's the game's biggest problem, but the way the ensemble cast develops is pretty nice. There's a real sense of group cohesion and them gradually coming to work together against their common enemy. Byakuya gets a lot of shit but he was actually my favorite of the rivals, even if his role in the story isn't as unique as Nagito's

DR2 follows some of the chapter by chapter elements but still has enough of its own stuff and a much stronger cast in general. Then V3 just copies DR2 instead of doing its own thing. DR1 subverts a lot of "series tropes" incredibly early (suicide/no murder in Chapter 5) and I feel that creative spark is really lacking nowadays

It's the main reason I consider Dr 1 the better game. I agree the mysteries aren't really that strong (Dr2 improved on that big time), but I could still appreciate the group dynamics when they came there.

Ace Attorney is a good example, since if you look purely at the logic of most of the mysteries (not counting the fifth case since that was written after they had two more games worth of experience) they are kinda shaky. They improved as the games went along.

With V3, I'm a lot harder on it because they have no excuse to show what they did three games in, as opposed to DR 1 which had to deal with being the first game, having to blindly test what works and what doesn't, etc.

I still don't think Byakuya is that great, but I can at least appreciate that they just make an antagonist instead of feeling like they need to make some moral wild card that's all over the place as an antagonistic force. Plenty of characters have had pretty straightforward values and beliefs but make really strong forces against the player, and I think they try a little too hard to try and recreate what they did with Nagito.

Agreed! My biggest problem with V3 after letting it sink a bit, is that I feel like there's no group dynamic? Or at least not one that catches my attention to care to see how more than 2 characters interact with each other at a time.

The protag trio equivalent of V3 I didn't like, while those were consistently my faves in the previous games.

I still really like V3 of course, but character dynamics are the driving force behind how much I like something, and it feels like there's something missing here.

Excellent analysis

Probably the only DR1 character who improved in DR3. I was a fan of her cheerful personality already, but I think the anime's grim tone and asshole characters worked well for Hina. Because Chisa and Gozu died at the beginning, Hina became the only source of positive energy in the Future Arc. This made me value all her cute moments in the anime and left me with a stronger impression here than she did in DR1.

Another thing that I appreciated from Hina's character was the subtle development she received. She was a positive and supportive person to begin with, but Hina has now grown into helping out her friends in the face of danger. One of my favorite moments in the entire anime upon rewatch was when she chose to help Makoto escape by fighting Juzo the ULTIMATE BOXER even though she would die if a single punch or kick hit her! This scene made me respect her character a lot more and is why I love her character so much now.

While I was satisfied with how Hina was handled in the anime, I can't say I was pleased with how Hina was reduced to a plot device to help Makoto(ugh...). All she did was carry Makoto around because his code prevents him from running. And when Makoto is finally able to run again, Hina is shot and left behind. Hina and Kirigiri both suffer from being reduced to plot devices in order to make Makoto look good which made me very disappointed. I was a fan of her character throughout the anime, but the way the writers finished her journey was just insulting.

All in all, Hina really impressed me in DR3 and I honestly prefer her here than in DR1. The writers made good use of Hina's likable qualities and gave her some moments to shine in the anime. Probably my favorite character in the entire anime.

She's just a nice person in general, and I don't think she was a waste of a survivor slot like Hagakure was.

Also, she wasn't even (completely) ruined by DR3. All hail the donut goddess

Possibly the only character to come out improved by DR3, actually. Her willingness to sacrifice and fight to stay strong in the face of despair was a great arc of growth for her, and made me like her a lot more compared to my initial impression of "donut ditz" coming out of DR1.

Also, she wasn't even (completely) ruined by DR3.

The most surprising aspect of her character.

Are you saying Hagakure deserved to die just because he wasn't very smart? This is a human being we're talking about here. Nobody is a waste of a survivor slot. It'd be better if everyone in the game survived. How could you? What if our precious K1-B0 gets word of this. He won't even know his own value anymore. This "waste" is a victim of hamburger theft. How would other hamburger theft victims feel if they heard what you think of them.

And Yasuhiro was really funny. So there's that.

Yasuhiro did try to murder someone.

True, but I haven't gotten to that part yet. So, in my game, he is in the clear (for now).

Asahina tried to kill everybody out of spite while Hagakure tried to survive.

Asahina tried to get everyone killed.

People who hate hagakure are just dumb as bricks.

Nice person

Trying to kill everybody

Pick one.

Everyone has a breaking point. Doesn't matter how nice you are.

There's also the fact that two people assaulted her friend and cared more about themselves than the fact that she died and a third person that was openly happy that she died. She also felt like she pushed someone into committing suicide, so it's not that she isn't a nice person.

Doesn't mean she didn't do it.

She was also manipulated by monokuma to do it.

You can say that about every single murderer in the series, so that statement doesn't carry a lot of weight.

Motives aren't the same thing as direct manipulation.

[+13]The better of the two fanservice dark skin characters. There was so many times I just wanted to hug her and tell her it would all be ok. Great character overall.

Remember when we all thought she died for a week LOL

so many sad fanarts, mostly things with Sakura, her brother.... and then, one week later.... !

One week later we understood DR3 was awful.

We weren't ready for what had to come.

I feel that Asahina was one of DR1's better characters. While she didn't stick out to me at first, her character really grew on me. Her winning personality and her steadfast belief in others stood out for me. Her relationship with Sakura was one of the greatest things about the first game for me. It's amazing how a character can undergo a complete 180 when one of her friends is killed. The revelation that Sakura was working with the mastermind led to one of her coldest lines to Byakuya: " You digust me! You're a monster! To say something like that... it should've been you! You should've been the one to die!" That said, her exclusion of Yasuhiro, Toko, and Byakuya from the investigation I felt was a bit too much. Overall, I felt that Asahina was a good character in DR1. Unfortunately, her character was downgraded to a walking plot device in DR3, with her apparent "murder" and her piggybacking Makoto around as he couldn't run (I still found it humorous). I will admit however that she was a much more positive and hopeful character than a lot of the remaining Future Foundation members, bringing some much needed balance to the cast. In summary, Asahina was a great character in Danganronpa's story and certainly not a waste of a survivor.

I LOVE Hina and think she has maybe the best personality of DR1. Shes a lovable, bright, bouncy, energetic ball of awesome. She is kinda ditzy and slow sometimes but she's the only one who's truly open with her emotions in DR1. She's the only character who would have me shouting at my computer saying "You better not fucking kill her game, I swear to god!" (DR3 had me say much worse with that fake out death). I also love her interactions with the other characters as well. I love that she has a bromance with Sakura and them both being exercise junkies together. I honestly think she did just as much if not more to help keep everyone together as Makoto did. That being said I think she could have fit the protagonist role well if the story was written a little differently, but then people couldn't watch her free time events so mixed feelings there. We never get to see her talent on display either which kinda bugs me too. One more gripe is DR3 didn't know what to do with her so they just reduced her role to being Makoto's Yoshi.

I imagine a lot of flak will come her way because of the fourth trial. I can't completely say she's not at fault but she just lost her best friend and read some faked bullshit suicide note that Monokuma wrote. The trial would've ended quickly much to the delight of two people who whacked Sakura over the head with a Monokuma bottle and Byakuya who might be the main reason why Sakura was outcasted and decided to kill herself in the first place. Everyone was kind of an asshole in that chapter except of course Makoto and Kyoko so everyone else deserves some of the blame as well not just Hina.

So yeah Hina is one of my favorites of the series. Her casual appearance, personality, obsession with donuts and cuteness are all great. She's one of the most likable, well written characters in Danganronpa. If Makoto and Nagito are my hopeboi's then Chiaki and Hina would be my hopegals.

Hina is the best DR1 girl for me, but I actually prefer her DR3 design.

That tank top tho.

Denim mini shorts.

I appreciate how "real" Hina is as a character. I think many of us here knew, or at least knew of, that one girl in high school who was pretty, athletic, and popular, yet friendly even to those who were lower on the social hierarchy. You wouldn't be her prom date, but she'd be willing to have a dance with you if you asked.

Favorite DR1 character, along with one of my favorite chapter of the series (1-4). I love how that chapter shows the darker side to Hina's fierce belief in friendship and loyalty, while also completely subverting the expectations of even Byakuya and Kyoko. Hina didn't have any sort of selfish ulterior motives for trying to fuck up the investigation; she simply wanted everyone dead for betraying her best friend. If this kind of lifestyle is what they need to all adopt in order to live another day, she'd rather they all died then and there.

Kind of a shame how her development is all stuffed into chapter 4, as outside of this chapter she didn't really do too much, but her development in this chapter was phenomenal.

While I personally felt that DR3 worsened a lot of the returning characters, Hina is one of the only few where I liked just as much as I did from playing DR1.

Hina has always been one of my favourites from the original cast. While she might be far from the brightest or most helpful cast member, she has definitely been the bundle of joy from the Danganronpa game with the darkest setting. She's also a very emotionally-driven character, which I tend to have a soft spot for.

In DR3, not only have I seen her mature personality wise, but she's definitely the one character who's been by Naegi's side the entire time, helping him out when he needed assistance the most. To watch her blossom into this very caring and kind adult in DR3 was definitely a nice surprise. I admit that I was crushed with hr fake death, and while I felt it was kind of a cheap move to make (not as much as Kirigiri's of course), I'm so glad it came to that conclusion.

Overall, she's one of the few characters from the Future Arc that I liked and it made me want to see more of Asahina.

I'm actually pretty disappointed that Hina wasn't the Mastermind behind DR3 and no I didn't think that's because Chisa was wearing a Hina hat. Out of DR1 characters she's actually one of the most ruthless characters as she didn't hesitate killing everyone when she decided Sakura was wronged. DR conveniently ignores the fact that Hina was absolutely unrepentant if it turned out Sakura was indeed just a wimp who couldn't handle the peer pressure and committed suicide. She's a nice person and full of positive energy but there's a red line if you cross it, she wouldn't hesitate to kill you. This is quite similar to Munakata who is probably a good guy normally but if you're remotely related to Despair then you die. In a post-Apocalylpse world like DR, it should be common for survivors to have very strong conviction similar to Hina or Munakata. You're just not going to survive very long if you're always wishy-washy. Hope and ruthlessness is not mutually exclusive. DR3 should've been a confrontation between parties with uncompromising beliefs and Makoto realizing that it's not always possible to come to a mutual understanding. Nobody would ever be able to come to a mutual understanding with Hina over Sakura's death, and that's okay because nobody else is as close to Sakura as Hina.

Of course I'm sure DR3 never even thought about these things so Hina has her role reduced to Makoto's personal carrier and random shock value.

Pretty great character

She's the most okay girl of the entire group. It's really hard to hate her but I can't find myself to liking her that much. She has a bunch of cute and energetic moments I appreciate and I can relate a lot to her FTEs.

And she didn't even deteriorate that hard on DR3!

Can't wait for next thread so I can shit on DR3 Mukuro. Never forgive DR3 for fucking up best girl.

How does she keep that killer body with all the donuts she eats? 🤔

Ultimate swimmer gets a lot of exercise

in bed

While Junko uses the power of despair so that she doesn't need to sleep, I always figured Hina uses the power of despair to keep herself in shape despite having a terrible diet.

Best girl IMO. Not just of DR1/3, but of the whole danganronpa franchise if not the entirety of gaming and anime.

Not much about hina really changed from Dr 3. I feel it was kind of a waste to have the underwater setting and go absolutely nowhere with it, especially since you had a pretty good opportunity to take advantage of Hina's talent If it connected to anything.

Fuck using Hina in a cheap fakeout early on though. It didn't add anything to the story and was just a really cheap way to get a reaction out of people. You could perhaps do something with her that isn't making her a glorified Yoshi for Makoto. Having her fight Juzo was…alright I guess, but I'd rather they actually do something other than have her there if you're going to bring her back. She was one of my favorites in DR 1, but like Kyoko, the game balance is thrown off when you bring in preexisting characters because they'll either feel like plot armor if they live or shock value if they die.

I also hate that she just gets shot, is treated at the end and that's the end of her character journey. She's a Yoshi that got shot, and I miss her portrayal in DR1. She's also pretty much the precursor to a lot of Kaito's traits in V3, particularly in case 4 since that case is very much an inversion of the themes of DR1-4 with Byakuya and Asahina now played out with Kaito and Kokichi. In DR 1, I wish they dug a little deeper, like show more of her friendship with Sakura before case 4, do a little more with her in case 5 since she just kinda "stops" after that case, and it just feels kind of weird to me.

Playing Danganronpa blind, i was absolutely sure she'd end up being a peppy upbeat character who'd end up murdering, like Sayaka. I was happy to see she was more than fanservice, even if her chest was out of this world (and her shirt). She is definitely in my top 10 characters, though she does seem to be a bit too trusting, she wanted to unite everyone in both of her killing games, and it was incredibly sad when she was seemingly dead in DR3, though it was thankfully a joke. Hopefully she might get more development in future games, along with Hagakure.

Character rating: 8/10 Doughnuts (with sprinkles).

Character Discussion #60 - Mukuro Ikusaba (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


I've been waiting for this one. Nearly every second of DR3 Mukuro was painful to sit through, and she was one of my favorite characters to come from DR1.

From what I saw, a number of people sorta wrote off Mukuro fans as just liking her because of DR:IF and saying DR 3 was fine because she never sympathetic and it's not canon. I can't speak for everyone of course, but I really dislike this portrayal of Mukuro, but for a different reason. I don't think I've actually read DR:IF all the way through. I really like Mukuro because her Free Time Events in DR 1, and they have the same style to them that would later be used with the ultimate Impostor in DR 2. His are written in a way that comes off as a continuation of Byakuya's and showing his development if you didn't know he was an impostor, and then when you see the big twist later, you see how differently all the comments read.

Ikusaba pulls the same sort of trick here, since her FTEs read pretty much the same after her death, but entirely different when you learn her true identity.

In her FTEs she is talking about her life, but has to make slight alterations to fit the fact that she's impersonating a bubbly fashionista.

In her first event, she tells you to back off and not get the wrong idea or get close to her. She then explains that she constantly has to deal with guys trying to get close to her in the wrong way. Because of the ultimate fashionista title and just her general appearance, we get this:

Makoto: probably because she's so, um...flashy

Makoto ends up a bit confused about her reaction, but she's quite happy, and we also get the nice line about her wanting to set Makoto up with "an aggressive girl" she knows and it's clearly supposed to be her. The line carries its own meaning coming from a fashionista, but when you apply the "ultimate soldier" filter and have this situation play out in Mukuro's environment, then Mukuro is likely one of the few if not the only woman in her unit, so she has to live around the constant fear of potentially being raped, and this isn't even getting into the fact that she's likely much younger than the other guys. Her comments about having to be on guard all the time makes sense with that context in mind.

As you progress through her FTEs and see her get closer to Makoto, she has a harder time about not revealing things about herself, and she ends up being less and less subtle about her backstory, leading to situations where she mentions that she was homeless…then became a model. Yeah…In school mode, you can talk to her and she'll drop the fun tidbit that she's also an expert knife thrower.

The other thing is that because of the disguise gap, Makoto doesn't realize how much she appreciates the things that wouldn't really be much of a big deal to say otherwise. For example:

Mukuro: I could never kill someone! What, do I look like would? Do I seriously look like a killer!?

Makoto: N-No, that's not what I meant. Really, you don't....

Mukuro: There's something about you. I don't get sick of talking to you, like I do most people. let's hang out again, some time, 'kay?

To Makoto, it's just a pretty obvious line because he didn't want anyone to kill each other. He didn't realize he was talking to a member of ultimate despair and the ultimate soldier who has no doubt killed countless people, more than anyone in the game aside from maybe Genocider whateverthehellyouwannacallher orKorekiyo "waifu hunter" Shinguji, so saying that she doesn't "look like" a killer would mean a lot to what is likely a really coldhearted persona. He didn't realize what he was hitting at when he said nor did he realize how much a few simple words would mean to someone who'd have no real social ties.

We get her confiding in Makoto in her last event:

Mukuro: "To be honest, I'm kinda fed up with all this...we get carried away and rush face-first into stuff. Even I have to wonder if it's okay to live like that...dreams are meant to change as you grow up...but I've had the same dream since I was a little kid, and I've rushing toward it ever since...I put everything I had into that one narrow world. I feel like there's so much more I could be doing that I'm not, and I don't like that feeling..."

In the last event, Makoto can't quite connect what she's thinking about leaving, and can only assume modeling. From her last event, we could see that she isn't fully on board with the destruction of hope plan and isn't crazy like her sister. This part was suggesting that she's conflicted about going through with that and was considering renouncing her ultimate despair status, and it the main ignition was someone to confide in.

Keep in mind she still genuinely loves her sister, even if she's crazy. It's a difficult reality of abusive situations, but even though Mukuro was being manipulated to a great degree, she still loved her sister. Her shocked "why me" reaction after being impaled is a testament to the fact that she'd likely hesitate herself if not refuse to do so if she had to kill a loved one. She seemed confounded that her sister would do it, so the idea of her doing the same has likely not crossed her mind. Mukuro is the framework for the entire DR 2 cast's ultimate despair dynamic. In all of their free time events, you can get an idea of the difficulties they faced that likely broke them and compelled them to join ultimate despair even though it's never explicitly mentioned.

With Mukuro, she mentions that she never feels the need to be "on" that she can't fully understand why she's feeling so much more conflict and hesitation, and unsure of her very motives now that she's been exposed to a healthier relationship likely for the first time. Of course, that conflict gets expanded because she now has two people she cares about standing at opposite extremes and wants to find a way to still show her care for both of them. Some might be put off by her crushing on Makoto, but I take it as her being starved for affection the way someone like Mikan is, so it makes a nice contrast with the "strong, cold" image she carries.

It also helps that Mukuro's murder with case 5 I think is easily DR1's best case. The big takeaway from Mukuro and ultimate despair in general is just how they're mostly people from broken, unhealthy environments of various types and starved for validation or affection. It acts as the main springboard in IF, where you can see how Junko is obviously being terrible to Mukuro, but in Mukuro's mind, she's still caring and understanding to her sister. The IF ending has her deciding to show her sister love by filling her with despair, so while it does have odd parts, I think IF's biggest goal in showing us insight toward Mukuro was welcomed.

"This wasn't supposed to…why me?"

The appeal behind Mukuro isn't that she's an innocent, sympathetic person. She's not. She's still an aide to the villain of the series. I think it sorta misses the point if Mukuro is suddenly hated for doing something evil and unsympathetic, because the draw to what made her character more interesting was the question of a sort of nature vs nurture. She still had a hand in things, but you have to wonder what her life would be like if she didn't spend a lifetime on the defensive, if she didn't sink into becoming that cynical girl who gets tired of everyone, and if she didn't have Junko for her main connection to any kind of belonging.

That's the reason I find her DR3 portrayal so awful—not because she brainwashed/tortured Chisa or because she was helping Junko, but because they completely eliminate this facet of her character that did indeed side with Junko, but clearly still a mind of her own and was hesitant and conflicted. I realize that Despair arc is set before DR1 and you'd have to preserve continuity, but you can still get this point about her character across.

They start to have pieces of it come through like having Junko regularly insult her and make her do all the hard work while Mukuro just takes it, but rather than delving into why and exploring the side that made Mukuro so interesting, it's just bastardized to "she just loves/crushes on Junko." Having her attracted to her sister not only oversimplifies the character (If you read my discussion post on Kyoko, you'll remember I said that I don't hate romance, but I feel that it shouldn't be used to eliminate any kind of nuance in a character), but it's falling back on a harmful stereotype that people in abusive relationships do so because they're just blindly in love with the person. There's so much more you could explore with it that they just don't.

Mikan has this issue as well, and it's really disgusting of DR3 to go in this direction, especially with how they oversexualize her. It also diminishes Junko's character. If you dive into Mukuro's character, it in turn improves Junko's character and would help to show her as someone able to prey on and exploit others for own gain, and showing how she's able to do that by exploring the targets of her abuse would help to make her character work better too.

DR1 had a good starting point with a great foundation, but unexplored character. What were they like as sisters? Could you go off into what her life was like to have her leave her family and then randomly show up again? That alone could get plenty of material, but nope! They had a good foundation, but even that got eliminated come DR3, and it's unfortunate. There's more to play with than X Just loves her, and this series has a huge issue of ruining potentially great characters by oversimplifying their motives for doing anything down to just that.

Danganronpa has a consistent issue of leaving us with conceptually interesting characters that are largely left unexplored with more questions than answers.

I can't agree with you more than I do. There are so many, if not all, characters in Danganronpa that are interesting but unexplored, and Mukuro is one of them. Also, the biggest problem is with DR3 turning all characters into one-dimensional ones, removing all things that made them highlight above the typical cliches and making them those cliches.

Uh, wow.

Really really good post. Nothing on here has ever changed my perception of a character, but this has raised Mukuro's stock in my eyes just a little bit.

I don't think I really need to write anything more than you have here - she was an interesting character idea, built up in game 1 and then murdered by the prequels.

"fear to be raped"

wow, I've never thought of this implication, but it... makes sense, damn

I don't buy it, if there's one thing in TsundereKermit's write-up I can't agree with it is that. One of the only clear parts of Mukuro's character is that besides being abandoned by her sister there isn't a single thing on the planet she is afraid of. We're talking about a girl who spent her entire time in Fenrir without so much as a scratch. The rest of Fenrir probably viewed her as an unstoppable monster.

There's definitely plenty of unexplored complexity to Mukuro's character, but a fear of rape is so far from what her character is set-up to be.

I don't see how it's really unrealistic considering how common that is in a military context and why they'd be on the defensive. We know nothing about the skill or strength levels of any of the other members of fenrir, so while Mukuro is indeed powerful, it doesn't mean she's not cautious.

I don't mean fear in the sense that it shakes her to her core, but more the fact that she's on the defensive all the time and assumes the worst of people, and her cynicism is very clear when she talks to Makoto. I don't think she's scared, but more just overly cautious, and you don't get through countless Fenrir battles unscathed without being cautious.

I could definitely see the argument that it's giving DR too much credit, and it's the main reason I'd say it doesn't hold, but that scene with "Junko" and her constantly on the defensive in a completely different context still fits and is in line with her being cynical to the point where she sees nothing in others.

I didn't mean to suggest that it was unrealistic, had Danganronpa gone down the route of realistic characterization for Mukuro I'm damn sure that she would, and should, be afraid.

While I have no proof, I always pictured Mukuro having a more passive caution with her time in Fenrir. At least in her later years. I don't think we have any way of telling what Mukuro was like early, just that even then she didn't pick up a scar. Listening to her descriptions in IF(because it is the best source of Mukuro characterization, damn it) is what makes me think it's been a long time since Mukuro has felt any real fear on and near the battlefield. If the Fenrir were anything they were cracked up to be, they would know (and she would know they knew) that trying anything like that was a death wish.

I don't know if I would say that a fear of rape is giving DR too much credit. It just seems to be a different angle. It's really hard to talk about Mukuro since everything we're saying is mostly assumptions. I want more then what they gave me. I certainly didn't want what the gave me in DR3.

Perhaps fear isn't a fitting word then. When I say she has the fear of rape, I don't mean like she's frightened, more that she's cautious and cynical (for good reason) and it's a valid concern for her.

Imagine an overly pessimistic person who has been bullied or kicked around a lot--they're not necessarily wrong for being pessimistic if they've had things in their life affirm their reasons for thinking that way.

I just can't imagine the game would skip out on having you apply Mukuro's modeling stories to her soldier life instead after doing it every other time, so if she just assumes any guys who are approaching her are just horndogs, the natural thing is to apply that thinking to her life as a soldier rather than a model.

Oh, that's the moment you were thinking of. I honestly totally forgot about that. That's a damn good point but It's no guarantee. It could be what you said, but it could also be that everyone who talks to her only cares for her skill as a soldier rather than her as a person. I just went and took a look at it and it's really up for interpretation. I don't think it is safe to assume everything she said in her FTE's can be related to military life. It seemed more like a sign of how out of touch she was with sexuality. no man has ever come near her, so she needs to prepare Junko's response to sexual harassment the moment Makoto, one of the least intimidating characters in the game, says "hello". I'm genuinely unsure what it is at this point.

Damn it, I want to know more about this character...

Excellent post, really encapsulates my thoughts on the character. DR3's rendition of Mukuro was just plain awful.

Really great post! One of the biggest problems I have with the cast is just how simplistic everyone is written.

I would upvote you 100 times if I could. If I had a payment method that reddit actually accepted with me right now, I would give you gold. Said everything I wanted to say and more. #fuckDR3

FINALLY someone else says it. Thank you good sir, take my upvote.

Idk I think the dr3 portrayed her fine as she hesitates and is sick of doing all this despair dream and all that AFTER she had plunged the world into chaos. It shows how she was before she was sick of her "dream".

Given DR3's track record of flanderizing returning characters, I'd say she got the worst treatment of it all. Yes, even more so than Kyouko the trophy waifu and Junko the mindhaccer.

The blatant incestous feelings turned up to 11, and calling Naegi a loser and even suggesting to kill him? The torture of Chisa is really not OOC for her, really (she's not a U.S. Marine, she's a Blackwater operator guys; stop making her out to be this innocent waifu waiting for Naegi to rescue her), but I'd take the version of IF, non-canon it may be, over this.

Looking at the comments I'm guessing people aren't familiar with the concept of honor in Japanese or similar Asian countries. Look at pretty much anything from the Sengoku era in Japan or Three Kingdoms era in China and you'll see that honor is an obligation that isn't based on right or wrong. You commit seppuku when your side loses because it's the honorable thing to do, not because your lord was a moron. A famous Chinese saying from ancient era is 'a loyal subject does not server two masters'. Note that this statement makes absolutely no assumption on the quality of master.

Mukuro's bond with Junko is, of course, far closer than just between a master and a subject. The time they were homeless is likely where they bonded strongly since they had no one else to depend on. Until DR3 went with the whole incest thing I don't think there was anything to infer that their relationship was abusive, though again honor takes precedence even if it was. Yes Junko is generally nasty to her, but Junko's nastiness is her way of showing affection. Just like how she repeatedly call out Makoto being ordinary implies she doesn't actually think of him as ordinary (otherwise she'd be doing that to every guy that's as ordinary as Makoto, and there sure are a lot of ordinary guys in the world), her distaste for Mukuro implies she cares for Mukuro. Junko is someone who gets bored with everything easily to the point where she fears boredom. There's no way she'd bother wasting her attention on something she truly hates.

I guess the common basis for abuse is that Junko is seen trying to kill Mukuro in various sources. However, I think this misses the point that Junko, despite all the hype, is not an accomplished physical combatant. Even with her 'calculate everything' super power there's no credible way to believe she'd be able to kill someone like Mondo without a gun, let alone the Ultimate Soldier. This is probably one of the few thing DR3 gets right where Mukuro can easily evade an attempt to kill her even while she's busy drooling all over Junko. So I imagine Mukuro viewed every attack on her as just a cute thing that Junko does since she'd figure there's no way Junko could succeed regardless of her intentions.

Mukuro is likely the biggest victim of DR's philosophy of 'no one is ever on the bad guy's side without being brainwashed/crazy/insane'. It's especially ironic since she is a soldier, which is probably the best example of someone who joins a side without completely sold on the ideal. From the way she is portrayed, I'm guessing she simply doesn't even know what alternatives may exist. That is, she's not someone who enjoys killing people but she sure doesn't know how to resolve the conflict without killing, so she will always wonder 'maybe there's a better way' but this doesn't mean she's going to abandon Junko's cause or that she actually feels bad over her killings. DR seems to be just very bad at handling the morally grey character, which is weird given the setting. You'd think in the post-Apocalypse world there would be a lot of time you just got to survive and not worry about the guy you shot was a good or a bad guy, so it's a very easy environment for such characters to thrive.

Junko is generally nasty to her, but Junko's nastiness is her way of showing affection. Just like how she repeatedly call out Makoto being ordinary implies she doesn't actually think of him as ordinary (otherwise she'd be doing that to every guy that's as ordinary as Makoto, and there sure are a lot of ordinary guys in the world), her distaste for Mukuro implies she cares for Mukuro. Junko is someone who gets bored with everything easily to the point where she fears boredom. There's no way she'd bother wasting her attention on something she truly hates.

I can agree that Junko indeed genuinely cares and expresses it in her way because she hates boredom. Having said that, I don't think it's appropriate to say it's not abusive. You can genuinely love someone and still have an unhealthy relationship with them or still abuse them.

Until DR3 making it look like Mukuro is a masochist, I don't think their relationship is any abusive than what you can expect from normal friends. For example some guy can be a total leech and people usually don't think of that as an abusive relationship. For all we know, some of Junko's criticism may very well be true. Mukuro does appear to be pretty lacking in common sense, and if she really does stink we know Junko is definitely not afraid to call that out on anybody. At worst Junko would be like the friend that always say dumb things that embarrass you, but people put up with such guys in real life too without having mental issues. Their relationship is clearly unbalanced, but that doesn't mean Mukuro is some kind of victim or mentally ill. If a guy never pays for anything because he's cheap/poor, that doesn't mean you're a victim or a fool to be paying for meals.

I dunno, if DR 2 goes the route by showing that Junko is the kind of person who would clearly manipulate and abuse whoever she'd need to to get what she wants (until DR 3 goes way overboard and destroys that), I don't think it's really a stretch to think that the person the game explicitly tells you is insane, has no qualms with killing her family, and was implied to have manipulated nearly all of the DR 2 cast is emotionally abusive toward her sister.

Again, I agree that her love is genuine, but I can't at all see it as not being abusive or at the very least an incredibly unhealthy relationship, while Mukuro was never exposed to anything different and had the threat of homelessness among other things.

In the Asian culture there's a theme of the oldest sibling, especially when parents aren't around, are supposed to protect the younger ones. I think it's pretty clear Mukuro always embraced the protector role. Mukuro is the kind of person who needs no reason whatsoever to take a bullet for her sister. And if she's willing to do that, why would she even care about Junko's nasty temper which is not all that different from a child throwing tantrums?

I think the issue here is that the two sees their relationship in totally different ways. Junko is most certainly not going to take a bullet for Mukuro, but Mukuro willing to do that doesn't mean she's easily manipulated or emotionally fragile. She simply starts out believing any sacrifices for her younger sister is worth it (likely reinforced by the fact that it's hard to see Junko doing anything useful back when both are homeless), while Junko in no ways believe in that.

Now of course Junko can and does take advantage of her sister, but Mukuro is going to be loyal to her sister no matter what. If anything, I'd say Junko's antics are completely wasted. She cannot manipulate someone who already starts out unconditionally loyal to her.

I hate to use this argument because I know it's technically not canon, but it was written by the series creator published by Spike Chunsoft so Danganronpa IF can shine a light on this. Mukuro is capable of defying Junko, but only under extreme circumstances. She had to have Makoto (the only other character in the franchise shes implied to have any positive emotion towards) to nearly sacrifice his life to save her from Junko. Even though she does end up pledging to bring Junko the despair she always wanted, it doesn't mean she only acted with her sister in mind. She admits in the nurses' room to be depressed that Junko does ultimately want her dead. The most interesting part is, I don't even think Junko knows shes manipulating Mukuro. Junko seems to think that Mukuro is just like her, and enjoyed the despair of betrayal. While Mukuro considers herself to be an exception to her the twisted 'version' of her love.

I don't think relating common Asian culture is a good defence for your arguments. Just because something follows a theme it doesn't mean they'd do it to a tee. In fact, Danganronpa LOVES to take common themes and tropes and dig at them a little harder (Sayaka briefly hinting at the "darker" side of Idol culture is a fantastic example of something few other Japanese pieces of media would dare to try). They don't always succeed, but they frequently give an attempt.

Counting DR3, yeah, it was pretty abusive. But fuck DR3. If we count DR3 might as well throw the entire franchise in the trash.

Not counting DR3, I don't think there's ever an example where she physically abuses Mukuro (might be forgetting something), though I would definitely argue it was a very toxic relationship.

I'm not talking about physical abuse though. Emotional abuse is more what I'm referring to with Junko, and it's not only the far more common form of abuse in general, but the kind more in line with Junko's character.

Abuse can be physical, emotional, financial, and several other ways.

Junko definitely cares for Mukuro. At one point in DR1 she says that she felt terrible for killing Mukuro, and cried for days iirc. Might be a lie but I doubt it when she was being truthful pretty much the entire trial after her identity was revealed, and it has also happened before (in DR0, there are two examples of her doing the same thing: the flashback with the sand castle, and the ending when she kills Yosuke).

Watch out for her.

DR3 ruined this character for a lot of people. But enough about [insert returning character of choice here], let's talk about Mukuro.

I would argue that the core issue with Mukuro's characterisation in DR3 is how her subservient relationship to Junko is portrayed. They are billed as a partnership in the first game but it's beyond apparent at this point in the series that it's 100% the Junko show, especially as future game instalments barely even mention Mukuro at all. Junko is quite bluntly awful (both as a person and a character), and because Mukuro sticks by her despite the bullying and the attempts on her life, it just makes Mukuro look kind of pathetic despite her occasional badass moments.

Another core issue is that the most characterisation many people really had for "True" Mukuro before this was reading between the lines of her FTEs and DR:IF, where she pulled a face turn and can be seen as the catalyst of the MukuroXMakoto ship (which may have sunk a little from DR3 and her willingness to kill him, with Junko being the one who is all like "Nah, let's let him live for now lol"). It made people believe that unlike Junko, Mukuro still had a chance to do some good in her life and earn a second chance; she just needed to cut her toxic sister out of her life.

In DR3, Mukuro is essentially just Junko's mindless muscle and her attachment is dialed up to a creepy fetishy level with arguably some one-sided incestuous undertones. We finally see Mukuro doing the evil things to earn her series villain title, but it's done by her in such a ho-hum way that all of her internal conflict that was shown in DR1 and IF is simply not there. She was flanderized into a Yes-Man henchman with no depth who played second fiddle in every scene she was in.

Basically, the only positive thing that DR3 added to Mukuro's character is that she's got a lovely singing voice.

Mukuro Ikusaba: Writer, singer, actress, soldier. Best girl.

Upon a second viewing of DR3, I'm solidly in the camp that her character was wrecked. What really stuck out to me was the contradiction between her reactions to Junko attempting to kill her in DR3 (Paraphrasing in that creepy lustful voice: "Wow, Junko is trying to stab me with an ice pick. Imagine the despair she'll experience if she kills me.") and her actually dying in DR1 ("This...wasn't supposed to...why...me?").

The only good thing good about her in DR3 is her character design. I prefer her eyes and slightly longer hair to her look in DR1.

DR3 nearly ruined her character for me. They threw all her likable traits from DR IF out the window in favor of her being and incest slut. She was such an inconsistent mess of a character and it feels that the writers never even knew who Mukuro Ikusaba was. How tragic.

-4 points 4 months ago 
IF was fanfiction. What got in DR0 and DR3 was the real Mukuro. If you didn't like that then you never liked the real Mukuro to begin with

Well no duh that IF is just a fan fiction AU. But it was still canonically written by the DR writers. And besides, these are some contradictory moments to Mukuro's character between DR1 and DR3. One of these instances being how she reacted with shock and horror to when Junko killed her in DR1, but got off on it when Junko was trying to do the exact same thing in DR3.

-3 points 4 months ago 
Canonically written by a fanfic writer. Not Kodaka. Hence why it's fanfiction. And Mukuro was shocked because she was following a script and didn't think she'd be killed so soon out of the blue versus in DR3 they had just arrived to Tokyo and had no set plan so it was all in good fun.

> Calling Ryogo Narita a fanfic writer.

Also you know DR3 wasn't written by Kodaka right? He just wrote original plan so I doubt he was responsible for basically all the characters being ruined.

-1 points 4 months ago 
He wrote the plot outline lol. Everything was written according to his plan with writers from Lerche writing out said ideas. The delusion of Mukuro fanboys can't be anymore obvious.

It's canon no matter how much you hate it.

He wrote the plot outline lol

When did I talk about the plot? I'm talking about characters. I doubt Kodaka outlined "Komaeda completely changes for no conceivable reason", "Chiaki becomes moe Jesus", "Mukuro becomes boring", "Naegi loses any development he somehow managed to squeeze out of DR1", "Hajime becomes Chiaki's fuckbuddy", I could go on and on.

Clearly whoever was writing THE ACTUAL SCRIPT and THE ACTUAL SERIES COMPOSITION didn't know what he was doing lmao.

The characters are part of the plot lmao wtf

You literally have no idea what you're talking about.

:| this is so basic i cant believe you dont get this

CHARACTERS are defined by their ACTIONS, REACTIONS, LINES OF DIALOGUE, all that good stuff.

If Kodaka had actually written those things, then he would've just written the scenario himself, but he didn't. He wrote "Original Plan", not even script, and we'll never even know how much was changed because the keyword here is "Original".

It's clear that there was an original character plan (either briefed by Kodaka, or taken from the FUCKING GAMES AND NOVELS HE WROTE) and whoever wrote scenario greatly misinterpreted it.

I refuse to believe that Kodaka, after writing these characters consistently for 6 years, managed to flanderize the entirety of the cast in one go, and did so while not even writing the scenario itself, lmao.

-2 points 4 months ago 
This is peak delusion at this point. How sad. Mukuro fanboys have it rough...

continue this thread

Ryogo Narita is a just fanfic writer now

Wow.

-1 points 4 months ago 
Do you even know what a fanfic is? Lol

A fictional work created by fans who is not official in any shape or form. IF is an official work even if it's a non canon AU.

-1 points 4 months ago 
IF is not official work. It's created by a writer who's a fan of DR. It's no different just that it got added in as an extra.

It got approved by Kodaka and added to a original DR work called SDR2 therefore IF is official. It's beyond the fanfics in a fan site who aren't ever recognized by the original author.

IF is as official as the Shuichi hat that got added in the V3 special edition.

But yeah a fanfiction with a gold stamp is still a fanfiction.

continue this thread

I thought Mukuro was a decent character. We didn't see much of her in DR1 as she was posing as Junko for most of the game. However, she did play her part well as a nice, charming, young fashionista that she was supposed to play. Scroll forward to DR3 and we see her as Junko's right hand, assisting in her machinations to take over Hope's Peak. I think her actions were not necessarily right, but clearly she just wanted to help her sister achieve her dream. I can respect her intentions, even though her actions were not necessarily good. Also, her duel versus Peko was pretty engaging and had me on the edge of my seat. Then we look at novels. Her role in DR0 further shows her attachment to her sister, going through with Junko's plan, pretending to be Junko, and eventually, helping her regain her memories. I noticed a similarity between her and Yasuke, in that they simply wanted to help Junko, albeit in decidedly different ways. Then we have Danganronpa IF, where the only info we receive is her relationship with Makoto and that she had feelings for him. That added a depth to her character that we wouldn't have had otherwise. In conclusion, Mukuro was a good character, and whatever wrongs she may have done, it is clear that she did it to help her sister

Hahahahah DR3 Mukuro doesn't exist and you can't convince me otherwise.

crys in the corner

I find it's easier to just pretend that the entirety of DR3 doesn't exist.

Eh, Seiko and the music can stay.

I liked her in DR1 but her actions in DR3 destroyed her for me. I'm not saying she acted "out of character" or something, but I expected her to be nicer like in DR1.

DID YOU FORGET SHE WAS STILL ULTIMATE DESPAIR!?

That's the reason why I said she didn't acted out of character, but just I didn't like her in DR3.

Basically, it means she faked all her personality during DR1. It makes sense but... It's a bit dissapointing.

I mean, she was a member of Ultimate Despair, it's obvious she was gonna be a "bad guy", but her portrayal in DR1 made me think she wasn't as bad as Junko and she still had a chance. DR3 proved me wrong though.

How? Mukuro always acts pretty emotionless. I always figured that is how she acted. It was the events in drif that caused her to change.

Yeah, I know. But I saw her different because of show she acted in DR1, but since it was all fake and her real personality is just Junko's slave... It's not a bad thing, I recognize it but I don't like it. Just that.

Read Danganronpa IF, it was published by spike chunsoft and will probably satisfy your want for a more sympathetic Mukuro.

I'm about to finish DR2 so, if I remember well, I'm also about to unlock DRIF.

However, I read a bit of it and I remember I didn't like it. But I'm still gonna give it a try, basically because of Mukuro.

I actually disagree with the majority of the comments here. I don't think DR3 flanderizes her character. If anything, I think it more deeply characterizes her than any other installment. Sure, if you take literally everything from DR3 at face value (which this sub and DR fans in general have a habit of doing) then it can seem like she's spineless and doesn't care about anything other than aiding Junko. But I think when you watch her expressions and some of her dialogue (especially with Izuru and during the student council scene) it's obvious she's hesitant about what she's doing. DR3 is the only installment that ever gave her conflict as a character. She's caught between genuinely loving her family and her own moral compass sometimes being like wtf no and not knowing which side to pick, and sometimes leaning towards defiance yet knowing that she would be in danger if she were to rebel. Mukuro's character has only ever been that conflict and her ultimate despair-ness, and I think to say there was ever anything more to it is to miscredit certain aspects of her character in other installments.

Sorry, but I just don't count anything from DR1. In the early game, I spent my free times with her and I really liked her. At the same time, though she shows moments of vulnerability, it's very difficult to attribute any traits to her actual character between her ongoing ultimate despair and the fact that she's intentionally trying to act like another person. In any case, she's decently good at playing the diva role, and we never get any other indication of her acting skills, so I can't say how much I do/don't believe anything from her freetimes.

As for DR:IF, I feel a little differently. First of all, it's hard to use anything from DR:IF to argue characterization when the events are explicitly non-canonical both in the sense that they deliberately state that it is merely a hypothetical, as well as having been authored differently from both DR1 and DR3. That said, I think, even if we do include DR:IF in her canon characterization, it isn't contradicted or changed in any way by DR3. The big difference between DR3 and DR:IF is that Mukuro is able to overcome her ultimate despair because she developed a bond with someone other than Junko. She is always depicted as someone cold and guarded, with Junko being her only companion since childhood, therefore making it much more difficult to leave the abusive cycle she is stuck in with Junko. I think, when you account for Makoto, there's a big difference between the circumstances of her reactions in DR3 and DR:IF. Also account for Makoto's characterization as the ultimate hope who can essentially sway just about anyone to his side through platitudes. I think this trait of Mukuro's, her desire to reach out for anyone but Junko is even hinted at in DR3 with her vague interest in Izuru and in the scene where they're boarding up HPA and discussing Makoto. In that sense, I think her DR:IF and DR3 characterization are very compliant with each other and are both very true-to-life applications of that sort of development.

In conclusion, Mukuro is, IMO, not a super deep or intriguing character but she's pretty good by early DR standards and her development only gets better and better as the series goes on. Also, she was one of the only characters to get anything out of DR3, so there's that.

Why discount her DR1 FTEs though? We can still learn a lot about The ultimate imposter through his even though he's impersonating a different person and we can't 100% know exactly what he's like. They have moments where he lets the real person come through, and Mukuro's do the same thing. I can see where you're coming from seeing taking them as a grain of salt, but I don't think they should be ignored entirely.

Yeah, I think my original take on that was... unfortunate. It's a lot more reasonable to just weigh them appropriately, rather than to discount them entirely. IMO, though, it's still very compliant with her other developments, though I should probably redo them at some point, to double check that I'm not missing anything big.

I really like Mukuro, what her character is supposed to be and the potential for development she has. It's unfortunate that DR3 didn't expand on her at all, although it was in the wish of one of the anime producers, unfortunately time constraints made it impossible and we only got to see the Mukuro the 77th class got to know.

-1 points 4 months ago 
Mukuro has no character but being Junko's bitch.

Her FTE in DR1 disagrees with you.

Inb4 F-FTE is not canon

To make this shorter, I'm going to link this, a comment I made back when the anime was still coming out that summarizes my thoughts on most of her actions during the anime. Most of this is going to be about her relationship with Junko, since that's where I've got a bone to pick, and since it involves Junko this whole thing's going to be a mess, so there's your disclaimer.

I think the best part of Mukuro's portrayal in DR3 is a single line, just before the reserve course is made to commit suicide. She actually tries to tell Junko that she shouldn't do that, and I think her portrayal overall would've been better if that had been their relationship from the outset: Junko pushing forward nigh suicidal schemes and Mukuro trying to reign her in unsuccessfully. It might clash a little with her previous character, but nothing that couldn't be handwaved as unreliable narration, which was leaned on pretty heavily for despair arc's entire existence in the first place.

Instead, they play her up as a masochistic girl with a crush on her sister. If there was any point in Danganronpa at which the distinction of familial love and romantic love was important, it was with this pair, and they flubbed it. It's strange too, DR:IF gave the impression of a girl who was being an actor in Junko's play for the sake of helping her little sister get what she wants, even if it's not what's best for either of them and Mukuro never really subscribed to her beliefs.

DR3 makes it look more like her sister openly abuses her and treats her like dirt while Mukuro takes it with a smile. Granted, IF implied that might be how Junko would show affection for her sister, but given how Junko treated everyone like dirt in DR3 (except maybe Izuru) it seems like they just wanted to make Junko look like a bitch.

Given how much screen time the two get, the fact that their relationship is portrayed as nothing more than a "bodyguard crush" with a sadomasochistic tinge is abysmal, especially since we have two other bodyguard crushes (Peko x Fuyuhiko, Juzo x Munakata) not even spread through the franchise, but within the same anime. Even if you didn't care much about these two, surely more variety overall would have been an improvement and it just feels like they got lazy with writing the interactions that might've made retreading the same plotline we were already told more interesting.

Oh yeah, and Junko attacking her also makes her look like an idiot for getting caught off guard in DR1, but I don't think that requires elaboration.

Mukuro's relatjonships always interest me.

It is clear that her love and dedication to Junko is strong as it was shown in DR Zero, DR IF, and DR3. She was willing to do all of those atrocities just for her sister's plan to spread despair. ☆

DR IF showed another side of her and is the reason why one of my favorite pairings is Makoto and Mukuro. Mukuro is not as keen to spreading despair as her sister and her love for Naegi enabled all of class 78 to survive the Killing School Life. ♡

Though I always find it odd that she doesn't show a hint of care or attraction to Naegi during DR3's Despair Arc.

Odd. :(

-3 points 4 months ago 
IF is non canon fan fiction

She is also boning for Naegi in the DR1 FTEs and in DR0 so fuck off boi.

At risk of copy pasting my last few posts. I will keep this as fresh and brief as possible

Mukuro I felt was an underdeveloped character that had glimpses in IF and 1, but was butchered in 3. A misguided solider who is not entirely on the side of good or evil, just simply trying to please her little sister by any means.

I personally enjoy her design, and had only wished she was more properly realized as either a defector after realizing her mistake, or a straight up fellow tactitioner to her sisters despair inducing sister.

There is so much mystique behind her, and her free time and DRV3 bonus game interactions show what could have been perhaps, but not so.

To die off so early was such a shame for such a hyped up title as "ultimate solider". But of course, not all can be as we desire, and what we got from her is fuel for speculation for years to come.

Okay, so I'm an IF, Zero and DR1 fanboy and thought that she never really had a chance to shine in something considered canon. She had the potential to get the most out of anybody in the DR series in the DR3 anime. However she got such little spotlight and the spotlight she did receive did not coincide with the novel's or games at all. It felt like there was a tale of two Mukuro's and both got no attention whatsoever. She is the most disappointingly used character in all the series with only V3 to rival her.

Funnily enough they're my favourite characters from both those games. They're designs are killer but Christ the amount of wasted potential is unreal.

Exactly, just imagine how much better the games would be if they weren't killed off like that.

I'm certain this isn't true, but I like to believe the way Maki plays out in V3 is a sort of mea culpa from the creators for how Mukuro was handled. They share a few parallels, and when I was playing the game, I couldn't help but think of Mukuro when interacting with Maki.

Honestly I don't consider/refuse to believe DR3's portrayal of Mukuro is canon. It was handled so horribly (not gonna explain why, read other comments they explain it better than me) that I honestly consider DR0/1/IF's Mukuro a different character to DR3's Mukuro. Similar to how I think AI Chiaki is a different character to DR3's Chiaki.

Edit: Fuck DR3 for messing with my fav character in such a disgusting way

to be fair i think it's best to imagine DR3 doesn't exist overall, it's much better that way.

Truer words have not been said

Mukuro, Twogami and Maki are all characters who have one thing in common. They lead lives that basically no human on earth can relate to fully. Despite most Danganronpa characters coming from absurdly different backgrounds, they all normally have a few character traits that somewhat ground them to reality (or at least a possible reality). However, one of Danganronpa's biggest strengths is the absurd characters, so its no surprise there are a few examples of characters that break our understanding of a human life. Their past and current circumstances defy all possible lifestyles a normal person could ever have. Nagito might as well be the poster child for how to do this perfectly in a fairly different way, but that's a post for a different time. Twogami stays interesting by not giving us answers and letting our imaginations run wild with the possibilities. Maki, from a characterization standpoint, heavily benefits from Rantaro 'pretending' to be the one following this model (and in a way he does follow it too). Mukuro on the other hand, she's the one who defined it...

Mukuro is first introduced to the player days after she has already died. Although, the player should have no idea at the time. The player has already been denied a chance to get to know them for real. This is the first thing that Danganronpa loves to do with this type of character; starve the player of information on them. Any potential interest a player could have for these characters would be ruined had Dangaronpa been upfront about the life they have. Both Twogami and Mukuro don't have any real development until the late game, long after they've died. Where the player then learns just how different a life these characters have had. All three characters I've been using as a model for this straight up deceives the player for their introduction. Now past this litteraly first point, Maki will already start to break away from this model, but I'm sure I'll get the chance to explain why I included her another time...

Once the player does learn the truth about these characters they'll probably make a subconscious decision about the character in question. Either "this character is still a person, so their circumstances are pretty tragic" or "I can't believe I let them trick me into believing they were a normal person". The important part is that Danganronpa does not try to influence your interpretation of the character, at least for the time being. The rest is all subtleties, replaying the game knowing the character's true identity (including FTEs) should be engaging in a whole new way. With careful writing, they can have a lot of fun making the player think "How did I let that comment go over my head!"

I think Mukuro is a great example of just how clever and unique the first Danganronpa was. It was a huge mash of wild characters in a wilder scenario. I hope other writers have taken note of this model, (even if Dananronpa didn't start it, and if they didn't could somebody give me some earlier examples?) as it's one of the best ways to introduce a truly unique character into a world.

Why is there no character discussion for Hagakure in DR3?

You have brought this to my attention, and I am now sad.

I think Mukuro looks prettier than Junko becausr i prefer her hairstyle

Disagree on the DR3 opinions of Mukuro, since IF shows that her worldview began to change as soon as she attended classes at Hope's Peak.

(People complaining that Mukuro acts differently in DR3 Despair Arc than DR IF) I wonder if it has to do with the two year gap in between the two? In addition, Mukuro grew close to Makoto as he was the first person to smile at her, and all that.

Now, I'm a HUGE Mukuro fan. I just love how she's truly loyal to her sister, and how she isn't sure if blindly following her is what's truly best for Junko. I love how she's always so on edge, even in her Junko disguise. And, even though this is peering into the headcanon area, but tbh with the Despair Sisters, having headcanons is kind of a given since we know basically nothing about them, I think that she feels extremely guilty about leaving Junko during the family vacation, and joining Fenrir. I mean, Junko does talk quite negatively about it, and she seems to really dislike talking about Mukuro's surname.

Speaking of, I'm 100% sure Mukuro made her name up. It literally means "corpse warblade". It's so ridiculous that she probably created it so she could strike fear into the hearts of the other mercenaries, proving that she isn't just a little girl with guns.

And even though most people like her because of DRIF...I actually really dislike that fanfic. I hate how Mukuro is being portrayed as this cinnamon roll who's forced into being evil by the big meanie Junko, and brave prince Naegi is here to save her and show her the meaning of hope and love, or whatever. And DR3....I dunno. At times they got her right, but at times they got her horribly wrong. I came buckets while watching her fight with Peko (which should've been longer tbh), I loved her singing during the Council massacre, and how she just shot that red-haired girl, all while looking absolutely badass...and a few other moments. But as people before me have said, they also made her into an unwavering slave of Junko's with a hyped up incest kink.

One day, Mukuro will get the treatment she deserves. One day.

I hate how Mukuro is being portrayed as this cinnamon roll who's forced into being evil by the big meanie Junko, and brave prince Naegi is here to save her and show her the meaning of hope and love, or whatever.

That isn't really how IF portrayed her. In the end, she decided to betray Junko not because of "hope and love lol" but because she was able to understand that Junko wanted to despair and what better despair than to have her own sister betray her and ruin her plan? Mukuro was only able to reach that conclusion because her interactions with Naegi and the others opened her up to the world, so while she still loves Junko she doesn't deludes herself into thinking she is only one who actually understands her and needs to be by her side as she did before

But (at least for me), one of the main Mukuro's charms is that she doesn't get the whole despair thing like...at all. Which is also why I was kinda iffy on the DR3 scene where she came while Junko tried to stab her. (at least she looked hella cute while blushing)

Mukuro doesn't really care about the whole despair philosophy. She wants to protect her sister because she knows that Junko is just a broken human being who's really unstable. So I don't really see why'd she go for that. It would be more interesting to see her turn away from Junko because she'd open up to the class as a whole, not just Naegi.

It's clear from DR0 alone that she is deluded and thinks that she understands Junko when she clearly does not. Mukuro herself isn't stable at all, and if she wanted to protect Junko then she'd subdue her and put her in a padded cell. What Mukuro wants is to make Junko happy, she feels indebted due to the fact that she left her to join Fenrir so she began doing everything Junko asked her ignoring the fact that what she was doing didn't fill Junko with despair at all.

She does open up to Naegi and her class as a whole, supposedly due to the time they spent locked in the school, her world expanded to include more than just Junko and thanks to that she was able to undestand that she actually didn't understand her sister at all which allows her to be put in a mindset where she could justify betraying Junko.

In Japanese fiction, the characters pretty much never call out names that are obviously fake probably because there are way too many of them. Even when a character has a name that reads like "Destroyer of Worlds, Betrayer of Hope", everyone else is surprisingly oblivious to what it means. While nobody would legitimately have a name like Mukuro Ikusaba, it doesn't mean much in a world where names are about as real as MMORPG handles.

-2 points 4 months ago 
Glad DR3 woke up fanboys/girls into what Mukuro is really like desu. Now I like her.

Character Discussion #61 - Koichi Kizakura (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Man, Uncle ray is the best character! When you first see him, he's pretty much established as the partner character, but he's not like other introductions. Ray is a lot of firsts. He's really the first partner with more experience than the main character, and they make it clear that he and Edgeworth have some hist—what? Koichi? Oh,shit…

Yeah, Koichi is basically a poor man's Ray Shields from Ace Attorney, and I'm more convinced that DR3's writers loosely based the cast off of Ace Attorney Investigations 2. That said, Koichi is still one of the few characters I can praise in DR3. He gets five whole minutes of screentime, was fairly predictable (I kinda guessed the entirety of his arc the moment he said he was looking for "her" or whatever he said and paired that with the fact that he was always with Jin so much in despair arc even before they even bring up the not at all subtle death flags) is a pretty simple and didn't have much time to have his character ruined, but I still appreciated him.

The fact that people call Juzo the bro of the year when this guy is around is pretty sad.

For starters, it's a nice breath of fresh air having someone like Koichi being more chill and trying to gain an understanding of the situation, Juzo or Kyosuke run around like idiots and just immediately jumping to fighting and trying to kill everyone. His entire character exists to foreshadow that he cares about Edgeworth Kyoko, and it's nice that he's not just doing it because he's friends with Gregory Jin, but because he cares about Kyoko herself too. He comes off as a sort of family friend in the brief scene they show in the moment Koichi flashes back to.

He has a few moments that are easy to overlook but are nice and fairly subtle at times too. After taking cover the first round or so, he waits near the dead bodies instead of blindly searching around for Kyoko because he knows that she'll want to investigate and he'll eventually run into her by waiting.

His forbidden action is hinted at well before it's shown, since there are a number of scenes with them running or moving where he goes out of his way to avoid using his hand, and it's there and fair game, but unnatural enough to hint at it being related. Of course, it's the usual "danganronpa leaves you with more questions than answers" thing since they just kind of "end" it when they show his cut hand in the background scene and that's apparently enough.

After trainwreck after trainwreck of retcons and horrible character portrayals, having Koichi go out of his way to deal his way around several of the traps set by izayoi was pretty cool, and the scene we have of him against Juzo was one of the best in all of DR3.

He doesn't have an overly complex plan and just relies on what happens to be around. I like that he doesn't feel invincible either, as he just tosses a book and isn't particularly physically imposing. I feel like Future arc focused way too much on action and shock value without any kind of coherent writing or character dynamic, but we see Koichi relying entirely on that to get Juzo in position. He baits him by outing his forbidden action and lures him even more by hinting at a later scene which helps build more suspense in a natural feeling way (since now we get to wonder what Juzo's failure is—the payoff of course was terrible, but this scene is still well constructed even if what it was hinting at wasn't).

My absolute favorite scene with Koichi has to be showing that he's the one that took the photo of Jin and Kyoko shown in DR 1. When you see how many things were outright retconned by DR3 and how many of the characters were so horribly botched when the whole thing was basically a huge grab in preparation for Ndrv3 and preventing people from feeling locked out and not buying the game, I really appreciated this simple scene for adding more to pre-existing content in a small, but meaningful way. It's one of the few moments it felt like they added to the series lore in a meaningful way that didn't just exist as a rewrite.

I do think that Koichi is by far the best character to come out of DR3, and it's mostly because he feels like one of the few respectful contributions and additions to the series that isn't just trying to bastardize characters to make them fit what they need it to fit, or retconning things to force in more screentime for more popular characters. I realize he doesn't get much screentime, but I never feel a lot is necessarily needed, especially with how DR3 bit off way more than it could chew. That whole showdown against Juzo served to focus mostly on character and suspense with just a dash of action and blood felt like one of DR3's best moments.

His sacrifice scene was heartfelt, but it's not what I appreciate most about his character. I like that, unlike almost everything and everyone else about DR3, there's this air of respect to him and it feels like he's there building on an already existing foundation rather than the series going "yeah, that thing we very heavily said to be one thing is actually another."

After taking cover the first round or so, he waits near the dead bodies instead of blindly searching around for Kyoko because he knows that she'll want to investigate and he'll eventually run into her by waiting

Don't really have much to add but this is a really cool detail

There's also his singular flashback of Koichi trying to break into Hope's Peak during the Student Killing Life, laughing and chatting with a fellow teacher-turned-military... and then she gets killed right in front of him. And the ways he doesn't react shows a subtlety that most DR3 characters never approach; that man has seen so much shit in his time. He was the scout; he knew bits about every Hope's Peak student, so every death across every grade would have had meaning to him. He was on the ground during the Tragedy, not as an Ultimate trying to change the world's fate, but as a man who felt like he shared responsibility for what happened.

And yet he still keeps his easygoing nature. He's not flippant, unless he's actively trying to be, but it's that he just swallows all the despair and horror he's seen, because it'd just get in his way otherwise. Ironically, the only other character with that level of emotional strength is Kyoko, and even then she only manages it by deadening all her emotions.

Koichi feels like one of the most mature characters in the series. Not just an adult by age, but by manner and actions.

and unlike a lot of characters who are unfazed by dead bodies, he does still noticeably react to them. I recall at least one scene of him removing his hat and never being pleased or thinking "ha, he deserved it."

It hits harder when he sees every student he reached out to and learned about and sees each and every one of them dying.

He'd be a good candidate for a prequel manga, Danganronpa Kizakura. There's a lot that was implied by his actions but left unexplored, that would actually be interesting to get into.

I personally wish that he shows up in the Kirigiri light-novel series, due to his connection to the family, it can happen, and I wish everyday for that to happen (even if it's gonna be in Japanese and I won't understand any of it, but it's my last hope to get him a better treatment for an already great character).

Planned to actually make a post out of Kizakura but from the looks of it, everyone here said everything that was needed to be said for best druncle, so xD

I absolutely love the idea. Part of what I really liked about his smarts is that it implies he's close enough to the family to catch on or tag along back in Jin's early days or maybe he learned a few tricks through them. He had that rare feeling intelligence that didn't feel like a contrived gimmick.

Wasn't there a drama CD of him interviewing Toko to scout her for Hope's Peak? Or something like that I'm pretty sure. More of that sort of thing would be nice.

the exact moment i saw Koichi he reminded me of Ray, also do you know "kirigiri" means "fog cutter"? (that comparison with edgeworth, damn)

also soon there will be Junko's discussion!, and since the discussions have resumed that I'm waiting for it, I can not wait for the storm that will be

Got nothing much to add because I agree so much, but this especially summarizes why he's a meaningful character:

My absolute favorite scene with Koichi has to be showing that he's the one that took the photo of Jin and Kyoko shown in DR 1. When you see how many things were outright retconned by DR3 and how many of the characters were so horribly botched when the whole thing was basically a huge grab in preparation for Ndrv3 and preventing people from feeling locked out and not buying the game, I really appreciated this simple scene for adding more to pre-existing content in a small, but meaningful way.

Characters like Juzo may be a hilarious trainwreck but then they die and there's no real impact, Ruruka is interesting but her paranoia prior to the killing game makes no fucking sense. Koichi avoids the pitfall of existing because the plot has to have someone and comes off as being more real to the rest due to how DR3 shows that he had a part to play in the Tragedy that doesn't come off as 'actions as the plot demands' and if I had to add something Koichi was kind of a mystery that feels great to see resolved in contrast to how the plotline between Seiko and Ruruka amounted to fucking nothing, the 'mystery' of the murders ended up being stupid but here when you find out that he actually was trying to help save the students it becomes awesome since it meaningfully calls back to what was said in DR1.

Ruruka is interesting but her paranoia prior to the killing game makes no fucking sense.

This is funny coming from someone who loves Kokichi, factoring in the part of fandom that try to excuse his behavior with "he's paranoid".

Well, for starters anyone who says he's paranoid when he can risk death by cooperating with Gonta right off the bat in chapter 2 to stop further deaths are idiots.

If he's as paranoid as some fans claim then he never would have been able to get those 10 DICE followers. Though I personally don't believe they are real (same with all kubs pads) it's still part of Kokichi's supposed backstory.

Exactly, furthermore he strikes me more as someone properly cautious given what he said about 'the mastermind among us'- As in being discreet and selective about who he trusts to carry out his plan since he needs trustworthy and highly capable people.

Yeah, Koichi is basically a poor man's Ray Shields from Ace Attorney, and I'm more convinced that DR3's writers loosely based the cast off of Ace Attorney Investigations 2.

Haha, yeah pretty much. I remember when I first saw him I thought if this guy is anything like Ray I'm gonna love him. And I did, so props to classy fedora men.

You know, as much as DR3 is pretty bad all over, Koichi was one of the actual few good characters to come out of it. He's clearly a broken man after seeing so many of his friends die in front of him, but he still holds on to that one promise of keeping Kyoko safe until the end. He doesn't really do anything to ruin himself like so many others but does just enough to be notable (unlike the likes of Bandai). He was basically just Kyoko's drunk uncle who she barely sees but at the end realises how important they are to each other. When she was forced to let go, it was almost like she was finally letting go of the last living remnant of her father in a way.

I think the only thing I didn't like about Koichi is that of all the deaths his almost feels the most brushed over. Kyoko uses his sacrifice to power herself up to super detective mode for a sudden mood shift, but the other three people barely even react to what happened to him. Then again, the other three people in the room were 3/4's of the biggest assholes in DR3 so eh, I'm expecting too much from them.

If there was anyone who deserved to survive that mess over animator brat, it's a contest between him and Seiko. Though... I guess we never did find his body after the fall...

He's chilling with Mace Windu

By process of elimination, he is the least egregious and obnoxious of the DR3 cast. Virtually all of the others introduced were frustrating, stupid or poorly written, and often all three at once. Koichi had the benefit of being the 'one sane man' among the Future Foundation heads who were otherwise almost all complete idiots: he had understandable goals, a moderate personality, and no ridiculous grudges, which contrasts sharply with almost all of his colleagues.

However, before I fall off into a rant about how the rest of the Future arc's cast are completely stupid, Koichi does have some weaknesses to his character. The first of these is obviously screentime, as he doesn't really contribute much other than flippant remarks until later in the series. The second is how understated he is - yes it is one of his strengths that he isn't a flaming nutcase like the others, but it also means that a lot of his laidback personality and contributions are just buried by the guys running around waving swords and shouting.

Basically, aside from Seiko (who did nothing wrong and Ruruka is 100% to blame for almost everything between them), Koichi is possibly my favourite DR3 character, and shines by being one of the few moderating influences in the show, with a short arc that dovetails nicely with DR1 for a good emotional payoff.

If the entirety of Mirai-hen's cast was as interesting as Ruruka Ando and Koichi Kizakura DR3 would be so much stronger of a show.

Every scene with him was a breath of fresh air because he wasn't smashing walls and brandishing bargain bin animuu fire-katanas and actually acted like a human being. He was set up as a pretty weak person in Zetsubou-hen, and completed his arc by sacrificing himself to save his friend's daughter in Mirai-hen. Such a simple two-part character but everyone else in DR3 fucks it up

I am actually impressed as to how quick /u/TsundereKermit
 posts his thoughts on these discussions. Makes me sound like a broken record at this point, but his points are the same as mine. A big problem with most of the cast is how much the writers hyped up their potential with backstories and conflicts. They end up biting more than they could chew and end up with just a bunch of inconsistent poorly done characters with a bunch of screen time. That issue is not present with Koichi where his lack of screen time makes him a better character than most of the cast. There is some mystery built around him, and some people were thinking he might be the mastermind based on how suspicious he was acting. However, that's not the case. The twist is simply that he made a promise with Jin to look after her daughter. It's not that grandiose, and his sacrifice is pretty glossed over by the rest of the cast(which was annoying), but it's simple. His twist doesn't retcon previously told information and/or taint past characters and their motivations. The only question that gets answered is that he was the one to take the picture of Kyoko with her dad. It works because it's simple and touching! I can walk away appreciating Koichi's subtle role in the anime, because in this case: the more stuff you do with your character the weaker they become.

If you want to know how I got them up, I usually have them written in advance some time when I'm free, so I'm just copy/pasting stuff by the time the character discussion comes.

and totally with you. Koichi's story is simple, but effective.

Ha! I had a feeling that was how you do it so fast! I normally just start thinking about what to write the moment I see the discussion is open!

Absolutely! Koichi is probably my favorite character from DR3 besides Hina and Imposter.

All I got to say about him is my man's real talent is definitely "Ultimate Godfather".

[S]A flask out for one of the good ones!

Also a reminder that differing opinions and debates are allowed, but please keep in mind to always be civil and respectful to your peers as per our 2nd rule on this sub!

Fedora man, take me by the hand, lead me to a land that you understand...well, actually-

Okay, that was a stupid joke, but anyway, I actually liked this guy. Like, he was just cool. Don't have much to say about him otherwise.

He's my second favorite character in DR3, and one of the few with an interesting and pretty realistic personality. I like how he isn't sociopathic but doesn't have extremely strong reactions to deaths. You can tell that he does care but has seen so much death that he's become somewhat numb to it. Most characters in the series are either completely uncaring or have super extreme reactions to death, so it's nice to see a moderate character like Koichi.

Best Drunkle

One of the better characters to come out of DR3. RIP Fedora Man

solid lad

Kizakura was entertaining. While I understand the importance of his endgame actions and fate, I still don't like how he was used to help Kirigiri survive then promptly forgotten.

Underappreciated character. He's like that one cool uncle who doesn't give any shits and is drunk 90% of the time

So it looks like I'm in small minority who doesn't appreciate Koichi. He is overrated. He worked for corrupted HPA. He never did anything to stop school executives. He even let Jin to expell innocent 76 class trio which makes him partially guilty of Seiko and Ruruka insanity. He never seemed to care about his own class. He was also best friend of asshole Jin. Even his obvious character flaw - his alcoholism is treated as something fun. I mean there is nothing fun about alcoholism. It's also worth to notice that he had this problem long before the Tragedy.

However I must admit it's a bit sad that he ended as Kyoko plot armor along with Seiko. Even if I like Kyoko much more.

rip fedora man

Koichi is probably the best thing to come out of the anime.

The greatest aspect of him is that he genuinely feels connected to the story. Like I know everyone is canon, but they just feel like extras, like sprinkles on top of a cake. If you removed them from the franchise it wouldn't change how I feel about it. Koichi on the other hand was the only character in the entire anime that impacted how I viewed previous installments. Seeing him trying to free the trapped students, his friendship with Jin, and how through all this madness and crazy killing he followed his promise to protect Kirigiri... Especially that scene when he took the photo, that hit me right in the heart. It was such a powerful scene in the original game too. Watching Koichi didn't feel like learning about some extra anime character, it was like getting to know a long lost friend. Someone who was part of Danganronpa since the very beginning.

Aside from that, he's just a likable character. DR3 has a problem with characters being a little too crazy. Koichi was the resident normal dude, and the only one of the sane characters who lived long enough for us to actually get to know him. It was so satisfying seeing him act logically while everyone else started chasing each other for idiotic reasons. Even his death felt (mostly) satisfying. A little too sudden for my taste, but at least the way he broke his code made sense.

The only thing I don't like is that his sacrifice was made useless by Kirigiri dying anyway. Granted she comes back (and I'm glad for that), but it really sours the experience knowing if it wasn't for a deus ex Machima his sacrifice would've been in vain. And to be honest I much rather him survive, it would've added something to Kirigiri. Also, and this is something that goes for most deaths, why didn't anyone react to him dying. It's just like, "oh whoops-de-doodle-do, that guy died. Now what's behind that book case?".

Character Discussion #62 - Junko Enoshima (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Leaving it up to the audiences imagination as to how she started the apocalypse was a better Idea than actually showing us, It somehow becomes even less believable when we see it

I don't think brainwashing is less believable than mass manipulation of normal people into terrorists who have fetishes for despair because of an inexistent charm.

[+13]"Why did you start the apocalypse?"

"I got bored. Despair isn't boring."

"Ok why did you murder your sister?"

"Despair"

"... Why-"

"Despair"

"We're done here"

Unpopular opinion: English Dub!Junko is increadible and everything the character should be. She's such a fundamentally ridiculous character and playing up that aspect of her is the right move.

[+13]"Kamakura Kamakura Kamakura yas queen" actually made me laugh.

i totally agree. for such a highly stylized series, i love a sassy, campy lady supervillain. the scene in the limo where she's trying to stab her sister in the face with an icepick while mukuro sighs about how dreamy it all is is exactly as over-the-top and ridiculous as i want the chief antagonist of danganronpa to be. junko's greatest asset as a character is that she's often very funny and dr3 played that to the hilt.

Just that opening bit when Mukuro comes back and Junko is monologuing:

"The return of the other Despair sister: the smelly one."

That was the start of some ridiculous shenanigans and it was great (sans ruining Muky).

I know, I enjoyed dubbed Junko.

As much as that scene was the beginning of Mukuro's character assassination, I also still love it. It's a very complicated feeling.

One thing I don't think get's appreciated about Junko enough is how Monokuma's personality was 100% derived from her. Play through the first game again and imagine Junko at the controls making Monokuma say these things and it always works. I remember thinking "what will the person who controls monokuma be like" and I was so thrilled with the way she acted once we saw her, she really was monokuma.

I beat danganronpa 1 and Junko was my favourite character in that game. The extent to which she was deified in 2 and UDG really soured a lot of the character for me, and everything I've heard about the anime sounds awful. But man when I put myself back in the headspace of playing danganronpa 1 unburdened by the sequels, she was awesome.

I just finished playing through DR1 for a second time with my sister a week ago, and Junko in DR1 was still as good as I remembered.

I loved all her voices/personalities she would try on, and the idea that her primary defining characteristic was 'boredom' I think made for a great villain. When they first introduce her and she's doing this terrible overthetop 'queen' voice or whatever, and then she switches into that cheesy rocker voice. She goes through a few more voices before eventually falling into her real voice, this completely empty dead monotone. In that voice she explains: "it's been so long since I've had an audience, even I can't remember what kind of role I'm supposed to play." No personality or voices were ever genuine from her, it was always a performance except the flat bored monotone, all through her life.

Every attempt they made in subsequent materials to further explain/retcon The Tragedy (or anything about Junko really) made it and Junko worse. The first game was really smart about knowing when it was a bad idea to explain things. I think one of the biggest faults of fiction in general, but especially science fiction, is feeling it is necessary to explain away plot points in detail when the explanation does not actually affect the story, and will ultimately be unsatisfying. In DR1 really understood this, and so we never explained how she caused us to lose our memories, and we got exchanges like these:

Mukuro and Junko's last names:

Toko: "but if you're twins, why do you have different last names?"

Junko: "Ugh, that again? You have any idea how many times people ask me that shit? Maybe it's new to your dumb ass, but it bores me to tears! Answering the same questions over and over! Just make up any answer you want, I don't give a shit! The truth's fuckin' lame, anyway."

And the all important Tragedy and how it occurred, an exchange Kyoko and Junko have in DR1 was the only explanation that I ever needed:

Kyoko: "I can't believe it was all just you and Mukuro. Was it some kind of organization? An angry Mob? An incredibly motivated family?"

Junko: "You have a point. If I had to describe it I'd say... It was none of those. How can I put it? It was more of an ideological thing. Despair is contagious you know. It's almost like... a natural phenomenon. Everyone is capable of it. And now, the entire world has fallen into despair."

You compare that to shit we got in the anime and nope.. I'd much rather just have it DR1's way.

One thing I don't think get's appreciated about Junko enough is how Monokuma's personality was 100% derived from her. Play through the first game again and imagine Junko at the controls making Monokuma say these things and it always works. I remember thinking "what will the person who controls monokuma be like" and I was so thrilled with the way she acted once we saw her, she really was monokuma.

Yes, thank you! People always look at me weird when I tell them Junko is one of my favorite characters... Well, because to me Junko and Monokuma are one and the same, and you can't deny Monokuma is a very fun villain. I also ignore DR3.

She's literally one of my favorite antagonists

i really like your point at the end. sometimes an abundance of information is bad. how did the dr1 students get amnesia? who cares. is there any explanation that would really make sense? they have amnesia, it's done, let's see how they figure their way out of it. brisk storytelling that prioritizes what's important.

Play through the first game again and imagine Junko at the controls making Monokuma say these things and it always works.

Imagine Junko encouraging the guys to go peek at the girls in the bath.

[+13]"If they live they'll look back and regret it for the rest of their lives! So despair inducing..."

Would you rather despair be some kind of sickness?

It was in DR2 lol

Words said by Junko, who also said Izuru was the one who murdered the entirety of the Student Council, something anyone who read DR0 knows as a lie.

Nah I'm talking about the motive "despair disease" in one of the chapters lol.

The motive didn't spread despair though, just some random effects

I don't really care enough about Junko to really go over for 10 paragraphs what I like and don't like about her. In the first game she's well-established as this completely enigmatic and indecipherable force of chaos. She's not really meant to be understood or even have this complex character in the context of the first game. Just someone who gets off on the despair of others and especially herself, and will gladly go to extremes to see it, whether deliberately allowing the characters to think they have a chance of success before crushing it outright, or leaving a chance of failure in her own plans. It's a really weird aspect for a villain to have, that she sees crushing defeat as more pleasurable than overwhelming victory, but it works. Definitely more of an entertaining representation of an idea than an actually complex character.

DR2 and Danganronpa Zero actually go out of their way to characterize further, better defining her analytical abilities and relationships with others. What I think is interesting about Junko is that, in spite of all that she is, I'm not quite sure she can be regarded as a sociopath. She's fully capable of feeling a full range of emotions, can form meaningful relationships with others, and can even love people. Like, actually love them, but her despair addiction basically gives her this intense, incredibly self-destructive urge to sabotage all of that. I think that's a genuinely fascinating facet of her character that I wish was explored a little more.

We do get implications that her nihilistic apathy was brought about by her Ultimate Analyst abilities. Knowing too much can be very boring, and that lead to Junko wanting to explore this concept that can twist and corrupt people into acting in unexpected ways they normally never would, turning it into an outright ideology. As much as she's Despair's #1 Fangirl, it's not really something she has a complete understanding of or have any real control over. It's just something she wants to bring about in others and herself and watch the chaos that results.

But yeah, despite what we learn about her, we never really get concrete information about Junko's background. And I think that is fine, to the end she's never meant to be someone to relate to or understand in any way. She's despair incarnate.

What isn't okay is DR3 completely undermining her credibility as a villain.

And, no, I don't mean the brainwashing thing. Yeah, it's a stupid retcon, but when you think about it, it's pretty in-character for Junko to go the easy route for a bunch of chucklefucks she doesn't even know or care about. If it was her own class, people she does actually know well and care about then yeah, she would definitely want to go to a lot more effort to break them down, but with these guys, she doesn't really give a shit about them.

What I mean is that her plan not only relies way too much on a bunch of really dumb contrivances, like just happening to run into Ryota who just so happens to have a connection to the 77th class who just so happens to have the ability to provide this really, really easy means of taking over the school and ending the world, or somehow having material to blackmail Juzo with (and it's not like it's very damning evidence either!) but also relies on no one stopping her. Ryota can simply just refuse, and it's not like she could easily kill him when he's a critical part of her plan. Juzo could've easily just snatched the phone away and smashed it, and again, it's not like one inconsequential picture really means anything.

Having her built up as this almost Satanic figure with nearly supernatural levels of manpulation in 2 only to have the end result be she just got really, stupidly lucky was one of DR3's biggest slights, but in hindsight, DR2 probably set our expectations way too high. They could never conceivably follow up on that in a 100% satisfying way, so it really shouldn't have happened at all.

Now allow me to end on my total, unwavering support of Makoto x Junko. Not even shitposting, they're genuinely cute together.

EDIT: "I'm not gonna write a bunch of paragraphs I swear"

does exactly that

But yeah, despite what we learn about her, we never really get concrete information about Junko's background.

There's that scene with her growing up with Matsuda in DR0 iirc. The story he tells about her building a sand castle for like a month only to destroy it when it's almost done. It paints the picture that she was the way she is from a very young age. The whole I wanna fail to bring myself more despair trope she has. So I guess we have a "little" bit of backstory on her.

That is something I neglected to mention yeah. It does establish that she's just kind of always been this way. We still don't really have a source for it all, but that's okay.

Makoto x Junko has always been the best option 😘

EDIT: "I'm not gonna write a bunch of paragraphs I swear"

does exactly that

This is too relatable.

'Now allow me to end on my total, unwavering support of Makoto x Junko. Not even shitposting, they're genuinely cute together.'

I feel so bad for the bloody smear on the floor that used to be Yasuke-chan ._.

I mean yeah, she couldn't kill Ryota, but she also said that his classmates (77th class) would be the members of her next killing game if he refused, she said that when he found out about the student council killing game and wanted to leave.

Awwww, yeah. Hope x Despair all the way!

I know that a lot of people were disappointed by the reveal that Junko didn't individually manipulate the students of the 77th class and instead relied on brainwashing to "brute force it", so to say, and I do feel the same way to a certain extent. However, despite that I do feel like DR3 gave us an interesting look into her methods of operation that stays consistent with the information introduced in other entries in the series while also doing a lot to support her credibility as a mastermind.

One key part of Junko's characterization that was present in the first Danganronpa and continued to appear throughout her appearances in the Danganronpa franchise is her tendency to take advantage of the efforts of other people and make use of them for her own benefit, usually in ways that run contrary to said persons' original purpose. In DR1 we learn that she took advantage of the Headmaster's plan to shelter the 78th class in Hope's Peak Academy by instead imprisoning them within the walls they barricaded themselves. Additionally, the light novels reveal that the software used for Monokuma was Chihiro's invention (DR:IF) and that the tools she used to erase the class's memories were originally the work of the Ultimate Neurologist, Yasuke Matsuda (DR:Zero).

In DR2 Junko is shown to have taken advantage of Chihiro's work yet again to create an AI version of herself to carry on her will after her death. She's also revealed to have subverted other ultimate students to despair in the past, therefore utilizing their talents to further her goals (77th class). Furthermore, her entire plan in the second game is based around the infection of the Neo World Program, a Future Foundation technology, so that she can make use of it to draw in her desired prey and further spread her influence.

This aspect of her characterization is even displayed in Ultra Despair Girls through her use of the Towa Group's wealth and manufacturing capabilities to mass produce the technology behind the Tragedy.

In each of these examples we can see that Junko identified and appropriated resources suitable for her plans during, after, and probably even before her time at Hope's Peak Academy. Notably, a significant amount of the tools she's used throughout the series were first exposed to her at Hope's Peak. Chihiro was a member of her class, the Remnants of Despair were her upperclassmen, Matsuda developed his technology through the school's resources, and Monaca was a student of the Hope's Peak elementary school division. When looked at all together, these examples create a clear picture of someone who deliberately attended the most prestigious school in Japan in order to take advantage of the immense and varied talents gathered there.

In that aspect Hope's Peak Academy basically acted as the perfect staging area for Junko to gather and put into place important resources in order to destabilize society on a global scale. Skilled representatives from pretty much any field imaginable gathered there and freely demonstrated their abilities for anyone to see. Influential groups of all sorts sent representatives there, whether as students or observers. The wealthy elite of Japan were represented by Byakuya, foreign power by Sonia, and even the criminal underworld with Fuyuhiko. Those are just some of the named characters we know attended the academy, but the games lead us to infer that the school has hosted other students of similar stature throughout the years. It even has a reputation for placing graduates in positions of power after graduation, both in regard to politics and more general influence on the world population.

With all of this influence concentrated in one place, Junko was free to interact with and manipulate important people and organizations from all across the globe without leaving Japan.

Now, as for how a high school girl was able to take advantage of these resources to the extent that she did, we simply have to look at DR:Zero once again. Her appearances throughout the series have always suggested that Junko has considerable intelligence, both in regard to her ability to put together her plans and her varied use of complex technologies, but the light novel ties it all together and gives justification for her feats. Danganronpa Zero reveals that her amnesiac self has analytical abilities great enough to be granted the title Ultimate Analyst and provides support for said talent through her actions. As anyone who's familiar with the series knows, characters who are granted a SHSL title are exceptionally talented in said field, and by exceptionally talented I mean proficient to an extent that verges on superhuman in some situations.

With that in mind, the methods Junko used to start the Tragedy line up perfectly with her alternate talent. Her analytical capabilities allow her to identify important resources, replicate what she can, and find the best ways to acquire what she can't. From a larger perspective, with this talent Junko would excel at examining and comprehending the complex interactions between the governments, corporations, etc that more or less keep society functioning. It also means she would understand how to harm them in a way that would damage society the most. Whether it be through blackmail or more subtle influence, she had the capability to find a method to twist her targets for her purposes, provided she has access to them. Which brings us back to just how well-suited Hope's Peak was for her plans.

My comment turned out to be too long, so I'm going to try to split it up into two and leave the rest as a reply to this post. See Part 2

Part 2

To bring all this back to DR3, this aspect of her character was something that I feel the anime demonstrated very well. Most Danganronpa installments start while Junko's plans are in action, with the partial exception of DR:Zero, so we don't usually get to see her preparing for these events. However, as the Despair Arc is a prequel we get to see first-hand how she operated when setting up her plans, although we still only get glimpses as much of her activity occurs behind the scenes.

And what we see is pretty consistent with what had been established before, that being the discovery and appropriation of Hope's Peak Academy assets for her own uses. She kidnaps an academy trustee and tortures him, presumably as part of an interrogation to gain access to confidential information such as the Kamakura Project (Identification). Using that information, she then infiltrates the area in which Izuru is held with Mukuro's assistance and convinces him to follow her, or at least observe her activities (Appropriation). While she probably saw a use for his numerous talents, her main purpose in doing so was to use him to facilitate the revolt of the Reserve Course.

By using him as a scapegoat for the Student Council killing game, otherwise known as the Tragedy of Hope's Peak, she was able to enflame the already existing feeling of discontent among the Reserve Course. A sense of inequality existed between the ultra privileged main course and heavily charged reserve students that had already been exacerbated by the academy's lackluster response to the murder of Natsumi Kuzuryu. By framing the academy's crown jewel as a sadistic mass murderer, Junko was able to motivate ordinary students to take action by convincing them that the institution that mistreated them was using their heavy expenses to fund unethical projects (which is basically true).

This ties into the events of DR:Zero, which occurred while the student rebellion, named the Parade, was ongoing. During the novel Ryouko discovers a hidden area on campus where students wearing Monokuma heads are viewing odd videos, as well as some other disturbing things. In connecting the two, it seems plausible to say that Junko used the Parade as a method to spread the brainwashing of the reserve students. These angry students were likely invited to such areas and shown the mind-altering videos under the pretense of organizing their revolt, allowing for the entire student body to be affected. This fits perfectly with the modus operandi I mentioned before, with the identification of a pre-existing potential asset and the subversion of said resource for her own means.

Junko's use of Mitirai also falls within this framework. Once she discovers an unknown variable she immediately investigates it and ascertains its value. Running into Mitirai, goading him into showing her his work, and incorporating it into her plans once she realizes its worth. As kind of a side note, this scene accomplishes a nice bit of low key world building. Junko's moment of utter amazement at meeting the real Mitirai establishes a couple things. Her surprise shows that she's very familiar with appearances of the members 77th class despite having little reason to interact with them, suggesting that she's done considerable research on the other classes at Hope's Peak aside from her own. It also shows that she had been completely fooled by the Ultimate Imposter like everyone else despite her talents, further adding credibility to his skills. They aren't anything too major, but these were small details I appreciated.

Juzo isn't as interconnected with the various plot threads of the series, but Junko's confrontation with him still shows that she had identified him as a person of interest beforehand and taken the time to find a weakness and the necessary blackmail to deal with him.

My last-ish point actually deals with her very first scene in the Despair Arc, that being when Mukuro is picking her up at the airport. It's something minor in relation to the overarching plot of the Despair Arc, but it got me thinking of something I hadn't considered before. DR3 establishes that Junko was outside of Japan immediately prior to attending Hope's Peak Academy, although it doesn't establish where she was or for how long she was there. Despite that, it makes sense that she would be traveling the world as the Ultimate Fashionista, most likely attending photoshoots in various countries.

What this means in relation to the wider Danganronpa plot is that during her title as Ultimate Fashionista wasn't just a cover for her real talent, but also an excuse to travel the world and possibly spread her influence outside of Japan. One of the more contested aspects of the Tragedy is how Junko was able to orchestrate a global catastrophe despite most of her activity seemingly being based in Japan. However, it seems plausible that Junko could've become personally involved with a number of influential people in various nations as a wealthy celebrity traveling the world. Food for thought.

Anyways, while DR3 disappointed in regard to her corruption of the 77th class, I feel like it was pretty good in demonstrating Junko's general modus operandi and her abilities to gather and act on recon. Something that was kind of a strength and weakness of this installment was how it demonstrated her ability to adapt her plans to new information on the fly. This aspect of her was shown the most predominantly in DR1 with the 5th and 6th cases and DR3 does do a lot to support it with her use of Mitirai and Chisa after their semi-unexpected appearances. On the other hand, the anime takes it a bit too far in that it can seem like she just got by on luck, something that wasn't helped by the fact that many of her actions still happened off-screen.

Nonetheless, personally I found that DR3 left my impression of her credibility as a mastermind neutral at worst and actually somewhat improved it at best.

This turned into a fucking essay at some point and I have no idea when. Thanks to anyone who bothered to read through all this.

I did and yeah, aside from some leaps of logic I've never quite understood why people keep telling me that Junko being this fashionista who toppled the world is absurd (In relation to me discussing certain er, absurdities) since we do see that she's a very calculated person and she in a sense manipulates and infects particular areas that would cause a wider spread of her ideals, which isn't all that absurd considering what her talent is all about- Analyzing where to strike to cause the most damage.

when Mukuro is picking her up at the airport.

Wasn't Junko picking up Mukuro at the airport? That she called Mukuro back from military work to go attend a school with her instead?

After watching the scene again I'm honestly not sure. Mukuro appears to be walking through the terminal with a bag of her own and thanks Junko for meeting her there, but Junko is sitting on top of a huge pile of multicolored luggage that suggests that she was traveling as well.

It might be that they were both outside of Japan and decided to meet up at the airport after traveling back on separate flights. Like, Mukuro was abroad doing mercenary work while Junko was in some other country as the Ultimate Fashionista.

DR3, like mostly every other returning character, was ruined. I won't deny that Junko didn't have a lot of depth in the games and acts more as a driving force of despair, but I don't really mind that much because I loved how she was presented as a cunning and charismatic chess master. However, DR3 stripped away that trait I loved about her and portrayed her as pretty incompetent who has to depend on others doing the work for her. Her plan succeeded all because of Ryota whereas in DR2, they stated how Junko was pulling the strings and took advantage of the 77th student's weaknesses. The writers did a huge injustice to Junko's character in making her feel insignificant in the grand scheme of things.

Oh, and one of my biggest problems I had with Ryota I also do with Junko. They both took up WAY too much screen time in the Despair Arc, which should have been given to the DR2 cast. I didn't mind back when Junko appeared again in DR2 because I really enjoyed her personality and charisma. Now though, with how DR3 butchered her character and what made me like her a lot, I have gotten sick of her character and am now on the "No more Junko" bandwagon.

On one hand, the backstory of Hope's Peak had to have a lot of Junko, because it's also the story of the Tragedy. The issue is that it should have been Junko and the 77th class, not Junko and the Ultimate Shut-In. Ryota the Plot Device really ballsed things up.

They should have limited the perspectives Despair arc followed to not include Junko. Izuru can be one of the protagonists since Hajime already was, so he can be the lens we watch Junko from behind the scenes. It wouldn't change anything important since he was hanging around her a lot but it would cut out some things.

I love how everyone on the subreddit and their moms were so fucking crazy about DR3 when it was initially being released, but now it feels like I can never go on this subreddit without seeing someone shit on DR3 or rant about how it bastardized the characters and plot.

Not that I'm complaining, mind you! I hated that entire fucking anime before it was even cool, I just find it incredibly amusing how the entire DR fandom has done a complete 180* on DR3 when before, it was considered divisive, but mostly good >_>

I just find it incredibly amusing how the entire DR fandom has done a complete 180* on DR3 when before, it was considered divisive, but mostly good >_>

The entire DR fandom =\= this subreddit.

Yeah, this subreddit's opinion of DR3 has definitely soured as time went on since only those who disliked continued to ascertain their points. I used to defend it somewhat frequently but honestly I don't care anymore. After all, in the end, some people will remain butthurt because for them their headcanon will always feel better than what we got, no matter how nonsensical their headcanon actually is.

Anyway, outside of this subreddit, it's still pretty divisive. If you consider the fandom as a whole the opinion about it isn't bad at all, after all we wouldn't be getting a DR3 stage play in Japan if it was a failure that everyone hated.

I'd say not everyone, but I'd wager that more people hated it or found it mediocre

If you consider only the western fandom then sure, maybe. Even so I'd say it's only seem as a hated installment in places like this subreddit. Other sites and forums show a more divisive instante.

If we are talking about Japan, well the reaction there was mostly divisive to positive. If the reaction was bad, DR3 wouldn't have been a success and wouldn't be getting a stage play this year

Ryoko Otonashi is a much better character than Junko Enoshima, just saying. But in all seriousness I'm glad we had a whacky crazy evil villain for the series instead of a serious brooding completely edgy one. Her personality is all over the place sometimes being really funny with sadomasochistic tendencies and lots of sexual innuendos. I actually like Junko a little more than most people, the problem really falls to her motivation.

She planned out everything that went down at HPA and still wanted to feel the despair of failing, which of course is uhhh very stupid...? The story actually enables Junko a lot also to the point where we have to question if she has an ultimate luck talent as well. She met up with Ryota said "This is a fateful encounter!!" and came up with an unbelievably bullshit plan to end the world after seeing his anime. I know most of these analysis topics have just been "WAAHHH DR3 RUINED IT" but it might actually be in the worst case for Junko.

Ryoko kinda is Junko, right?

She behaved so much differently as Ryoko though. I guess the scared girl with a crush is more relatable and interesting to me than the crazed villain is.

I always just kind interpreted Ryoko as Junko before she discovered her analytical talent, which subsequently led to her obsession with despair.

It's kind of impressive how DR3 managed to ruin a character I didn't even like in the first place.

Junko is a frustrating character because she's so crazy and psychopathic it's difficult to really get into her mindset and she always leaves things vague. But there was an aura of being a "cult of personality" around her. The most interesting aspect of her character for me personally was that she was manipulative and able to exploit peoples weaknesses. She made people at the bottom believe that they had purpose all to exploit them for her own entertainment.

And so DR3 disregarded all that and just had her flirt with some animator shut-in so he could make a hypno video for her to use. Also she somehow takes down a boxing world champion, because she's so badass and cool despite her traits being the brains while Mukuro was the power.

Junko, the character we've led to believe was a cold and calculating genius, ended up destroying the world by goofing around and stumbling across a WIN button. And while the hypnosis anime is beyond stupidity, the fact that the "did nothing wrong (even though Nagito repeatedly did things wrong)" DR2 cast joined her side because she brutally murders Chiaki is by far the worst retcon that DR3 creates.

I can kinda get where people are coming from with her being 'one dimensional' or 'boring' for a villain but I don't think that's an issue. While the students do work against the mastermind, the conflict isn't' really students vs Junko, it's against themselves and their trust for each other. Junko is similar to a figurehead for everyone to work against in the final chapter to unite, and her multiple personas remind me of how the player is sent through loads of emotions left and right throughout the stories, and that's an idea that the game really like's to nail into your head. Monokuma was designed to represent this.

Junko doesn't need to be a complex character at all, she's meant to show up briefly. For the short screentime she gets, she's entertaining and works as a villain. I might be biased as she's one of my favourite characters, but I want people to remember that not every single character needs to have some complex list of motivations and developments. She has her role in the story and preforms it more than well, and is memorable at that. She wouldn't be one of the most cosplayed characters ever if she wasn't.

the way junko has always resonated most with me is as a depiction of a particularly intoxicating kind of mental illness. any depressive person who's ever romanticized their own sadness knows what i'm talking about. there's a certain kind of depressive episode that you don't want to escape from because it's easier to sink into and get lost in than to help yourself. junko is that impulse made sentient. 'just give up,' the person.

I like Junko. I think the way she acts as a final boss in the trials is very entertaining, if the DR2 final boss battle was against Izuru it would have been, guess what, boring. Junko's over-the-top antics mesh well with the large scale and craziness of the situation and serve to drive the point very well, so she works as a final boss.
People's complaints about Junko remind me of people's complaints about Makoto really, boring, one dimensional, cliché, etc. Which is funny to me because Junko is precisely what i think Makoto could've been: the embodiment and representation of a concept, in this case, despair, the utter destruction of hope and the void that comes with everything you do having no purpose or meaning or chance to change anything, and considering how ridiculous her personality is and how much she succeeds on that in the games before she gets hopeblasted, it works wonderfully. Despair Girls is an example, she's just mentioned in passing and shows up for one scene but she still scared me, everything bad that happens in the game happened because despair(Junko) destroyed the world and the consequences are terrifying. Monaca is a terrifying antagonist because of Junko, if Monaca became just like Junko she wouldn't work as well because Junko works as a figure that shouldn't be seen and when she's seen she's supposed to evoke a different feeling than your typical guilty party of a murder mystery. Monaca being grounded herself as this incomplete villain worked wonderfully for her but also for the image of what Junko should be.
Junko is a force-of-nature type of villain, no complex motives, no depth, just a simple destructive dangerous force. Makoto, on the other hand, should be on the polar opposite end of the scale, as a paragon, a unflinching, inspiring symbol of hope to go directly against Junko. But the game treats Makoto less like a symbol and more like an actual character, and because of that, everything that doesn't matter in that type of character like complexity and development and that stuff is highlighted and becomes boring to experience. One of my favorite moments in Despair Girls is when Komaru succeeds in contacting the FF, and Makoto's the one to respond, it's such a hopeful image, and such a great moment and it's in that moment that you really feel hope, because Makoto managed to serve his purpose, and then he goes away, not overstaying his welcome and not letting his weaknesses as a character be shown.

When DR3 puts Junko at the forefront, you see how bad she is as an actual character, unless you're watching the dub, in that case, Junko is EXACTLY what she should be, incomprehensible, dangerous, and very entertaining on a scene-by-scene basis. At least conceptually that is, DR3's writing is a dumpster fire and Junko gets caught in the middle more than most since she's such an important part of the franchise. But it was best given what was given, Junko at least manages to be very entertaining scene-by-scene, but had they ran with the "despair itself" idea, given Junko little but important screentime, with consequences of her actions being felt here and there, before she mentally breaks class 77 and brings them to her side(not with brainwashing), i guarantee people would've loved her portrayal.

I consider motivation highly overrated by wannabe critics as a important part of a critic. You can have it, it definitely adds, but i don't think it's the most important thing, but i think the most important of a villain is presence and impact, in other words, how much you feel the villain's acts in the story, last-minute-villains like Final Fantasy likes to do fail because of that, Junko's actions as Monokuma and herself are what makes Danganronpa THH have a uncertain and opressive atmosphere, they're the driving force behind everything, and Monokuma's even more menacing and powerful in the second game, and in both of the game's final chapters, before you win, it's Junko who makes everything seem utterly hopeless and you feel every second of it, everything Junko does is felt very strongly and as such she's a believable and memorable antagonist, DR3 sucks but everything about it sucks, Junko was caught alongside it.

Kamukura Kamukura yas queen

I don't like Junko at all. Although I could critique the whole brainwashing stuff being bullshit, it's hard when you have a villain with this little depth to them. Granted, I feel like DR0 does a good job of explaining her character, it seems like DR3 just completely ignores what DR0 had to say about her character besides "OH HEY LOOK THERE'S MATSUDA. YOU GUYS REMEMBER MATSUDA? OH HEY LOOK HE'S GONE NOW."

She's kinda fun in DR1, she's amazing in DR0, she's tolerable in DR2, she is insuffereable in DR3. I think that just kind of sums it up.

DR3!Junko I can describe with this:

What if the Joker, instead of taking time to deconstruct Harvey Dent's belief in justice, used a mindhack Teletubbies episode to brainwash him into Two-Face?

Thanks to DR3, we can no longer think of Junko as this agent of despair, this terrifying force of nature that can corrupt anybody. Now, she's some incompetent thug who happens to stumble into an anime dork who happens to have mindhack anime.

"B-b-b-but Naegi said they were brainwashed!"

He did say he didn't know how they were brainwashed, and given his naivety, I'm sure that he would think that they wouldn't fall to despair by their own will. And brainwashing can mean many things; since Ultimate Despair is a cult, you'd think Junko was this Jim Jones-type of leader that her followers would kill themselves for. Of course, like everything in DR3 he had to be right about everything or else he wouldn't be Mr. Creator's Pet Hope Jesus.

"Junko would be too impatient/lazy to manipulate them one by one! Kodaka said she didn't even know them!"

I'd believe it if the writers didn't go out of their way to strip the 77th class of any and all guilt (and character development). Twilight Syndrome? Nah, it's all Monokuma's lies! Backstories? Flaws? Who cares, just show them the drawn-out execution of Chiaki, forcibly hypnotize them, and remove their agency entirely! I understand that the beloved class of favorites turning out to be psychotic terrorists of their own volition wouldn't sell well, but Kodaka didn't need to shit on his previous games just for 'happy pandering'. Where was Matsuda in all of this, anyway?

And I still don't understand how the Hope's Peak staff are so incompetent that they weren't able to stop her even when she's marching in broad daylight with her sycophants. Her running into Ryota at just the right coincidence, everything she does being plot convenience, has really butchered her in a lot of people's eyes, and near-totally in my case.

Seriously, though, fuck Despair Arc. Some things are just meant to be left in the viewer's imagination (see the Force and Midichlorians).

Who cares, just show them the drawn-out execution of Chiaki

Hey as much as i HATE Despair Arc, the Chiaki execution was done wonderfully all things considered, i perfectly buy that as a kind of last straw to break them once and for all. But to combine it with some weird subliminal message anime shit?Fuck that

a kind of last straw to break them

Too bad that last straw was also the only straw to break them though

yeah my crackpot theory halfway thru the anime was that the 77th class would kill Chiaki to cement themselves as UDs

also the fact that the AI became chiaki through their love for her is so corny. It's pretty easily justified that she was their class rep or just someone they recognized. I really still don't know how I feel about her existing in DR3

It sounds really risky to have a blank AI become someone that the 77th class loves when they all loved Junko as remnants.

I thought she was great in her appearances at the end of DR1 and 2, serving as a funny, charismatic antagonist while also doing a really good job at making you "OH SHIT?!"

But DR3 makes it pretty clear how one dimensional her character is. "Being bored," is probably the most cliche/edgy/cringe motivation for a villain imaginable, and Junko really didn't have much going for her beyond her just being insane. Things probably would've been better if the anime showed Junko being able to make Class 77 dance on her strings without using Mitarai as a crutch, but what's done is done and it's a shame that the end product is so bleugh.

I despise Junko Enoshima. She's My least favourite character in the series. Junko is a character that I've never really been a fan of, in DR1 her motivations besides despair were non-existent, and her personalities were fun, but she didn't really have much personality herself. The good things about her we're the fact that I never would have guessed her to be the Mastermind, I usually hate twin tropes, but this one was okay, her design was really good, I loved how she looked more like a gyaru than a villain and all her personalities we're fun and I'm glad she was fun and goofy, not dark and edgy. I could excuse her bad writing just because of how she was used, she only showed up in the climax of the games, to act as a final boss, and to be defeated in a big showdown, I dislike this, but it let things that I did like to happen. In DR0 I didn't like her as Ryouko Otonashi at all, but I'm glad DR0 gave her some more things to her character. I was very disappointed when she returned in SDR2, she was stale and distracted us from the real Mastermind, Izuru (another character I can't stand). In DR3... She was absolute god awful trash that I could not stand, I despised her in DR3, she was made up to be the master manipulator analyst, they should have kept what she did to the world unknown, but DR3 being the shitty anime it is had to ruin her, so what did Junko do to the world to bring it to utter chaos? A fucking brainwashing anime. She didn't even make it herself, she just got Ryota a shy nobody to animate it for her. Also did I mention how awful her introduction was? Junko and her slave were in a car, then Junko just randomly does terrible things, telling us that's she's in a world where she can do anything she wants without any repercussions, she's causing uninteresting despair and killing random people, not even stopping to see how people would react even though that's her only motivation, as soon as I saw her introduction, I knew she was going to be shit. How is she supposed to be a threatening Mastermind? Why does she get so much screen time in Despair arc when the SDR2 cast deserved it way more?? How am I supposed to like her when she is hands down the worst written character in the series??? How are we supposed to enjoy this shitty OOC Junko???? God have I mentioned that I fucking despise Junko Enoshima and DR3?

Why does she get so much screen time in Despair arc when the SDR2 cast deserved it way more??

Probably because she's the driving force of the tragedy and the DR2 cast where just tools she used.

I think her underwear really showed the despair she caused. 10/10 would despair again

I really like Junko as a sort of force of nature, where she wasn't quite human. It's not that she's a particularly interesting character by herself. Her motives are bland, and she's stupidly overpowered. But in the context of Danganronpa, she's terrifying. She has the uncanny ability to bring out the worst in every character, with the final confrontations against her being the survivors finally rising above that. We don't need to know how exactly she did all of that, and the why is effective because of its simplicity.

So of course DR3 ruins that by showing in great detail the process of her plan, and making it so that she outsourced the most important part. Her plan relied on so much dumb luck that it looped back around to her being stupidly overpowered again. Yet that still doesn't erase the fact that it really shouldn't have worked out at all, and makes it seem like a miracle that any of her plans in the games worked out at all. She could have been stopped at literally any point if anyone had just gone to the cops or something instead. I do really like how they emphasized that the apocalypse happened because the negligent administration enabled it at every step, but they should have cut out all the extra non-brainwashed parties getting involved.

Junko is one of the characters that I really hate because she simple force herself to become a villain and act crazy to try to convince she is bad and all, but in the end, she is just a high school girl that didn't do shit or something by her own. Her appearence in DR1 was...Okay. As a villain, many people woud like her for her cruelty and all but I just find she a extremelly obnoxious girl that just talk about despair and can get quite annoying about it with "despair this, despair that" etc. Now, for those who have played DR2 know that Junko manipulated the 77th class in becoming despairs; using their secrets, motivations, weakness and all to force them to do whatever she wants and that's...Not showed in DR3. All she did was get Ryota to help her make the most anti-climatic way to turn people in despair...A brainwash video. Junko didn't accomplished anything by her own by what is showed in DR3. The others basically did stuff for her like Mukuro, Izuru and Ryota while she was just sitting there and didn't do shit, becoming a disappointment of a villain. Also, let's not forgot that she did more than what her talent would allow: How the fuck she knew that Ryota would help her when she didn't even meet him before? Analyst is something but she basically become a clairvoyant there.

Things worsened when Junko got re-used in DR2. She was already annoying but they had to use her again to come with the whole lecture of despair again and again, fight of Hope vs Despair blah blah blah...Honestly, I find Junko one of the worst characters because as a villain, she is just a girl that didn't do shit and just ordered around, not even her intelligence is properly explored; tries to act crazy with her whole despair love but just become way too annoying when you keep hearing about it all the time and make things too vague that you can't even understand. She just started the tragedy cuz she was bored and make her quite a edgy character with one dimentional characteristics. No depth, no interesting traits...Nothing. The only good thing that Junko brought to us is Monaca, which is a much better villain than her predecessor.

I won't repeat what's already been covered, so I'd like to point out the whole 'kill Chiaki to brainwash DR2 kids' is possibly the dumbest thing she could've done. Even Sith Lords have to be aware of their apprentice backstabbing them, so you just kill someone who is supposed to be everyone's best friend to turn them to the dark side, because not a single person would have thought about killing you after going to the dark side? Even if they are all completely brainwashed, they might easily think 'I bet if we killed Junko that'd make her despair' and then she'd die even from completely brainwashed subjects.

I always figured you got people with the Junko body implants not because they all worshipped her but that they hated her and thus mutilated her body after she died. Given the retcon in DR3 that explanation is certainly more plausible than the one the game gave, and for some reason Junko was never worried about creating these disciples of Despair that likely will turn on her the moment they're free?

waaaaay too OP like christ

She's not really OP in DR3. She's good at planning and analyzing but but the OP ones are Mitarai and Mukuro. Mukuro's stupidly bullshitly OP, she shouldn't be able to get past HPA security, this essentially allows Junko to just get whatever she wans whenever she wants with no repercussions because Mukuro's so above everyone in terms of combat. Having an enforcer is fine, but Mukuro's ridiculous. And Mitarai is so bad he literally broke the series, he's a win button.

Junko kind of bumbles around and everything works in her favor because she has these two crutches

Yeah that's what I meant but just in one line. I never liked mitarai I'll be honest, I tried to show him pitty but like damn man....

I'm probably one of the few people who thinks she's a more interesting character in DR3 than in other entries in the franchise, and it's mostly because I don't find the idea of an ultimate who can just do anything to be appealing. DR1 played it as if she was a charismatic leader who found the right niche at the right time to set the world ablaze, and DR2 made it seem like she was a cunning manipulator who played off the cast's poor upbringing and insecurities to make them her loyal minions. Even if her motivations are idiotic she was at least a character, but with odd decisions like saying she can somehow program an AI of herself and Zero seemingly reinforcing how super awesome she is by declaring she's actually the Ultimate Analyst and effectively saying she has all the powers for no reason, I sort of lost interest in her.

Come DR3, they've basically recontextualized everything by saying Junko lied about how much she actually did. While I know most people don't like it, and I certainly have a few gripes with her interactions, it does make her OP-ness less ridiculous. Mind control was already established in the DR canon during UDG, so the twist wasn't coming out of nowhere, and Junko is pretty believable as someone who would lie to make herself look cooler and more powerful. The fact that the events of the story are less Junko winning everything because she is the bestest and most powerful and were more a series of blunders that compounded on each other to result in a global catastrophe seems to harken back to that original telling of the apocalypse in DR1, where the destruction of civilization as we know it felt more like widespread revolt with "despair" simply being a catalyst instead of the singular cause.

Of course, even if you're a weirdo like me that sort of likes the change, that comes at a price from pretty much every other character. By making Junko a bully who is always dominating her cohorts instead of a charismatic cult leader, they made every person who interacts with her either be weak willed and completely cave to her demands, or be a masochist who seems to get sexual thrills from being treated like trash. By making the series of blunders, it makes Hope's peak look like a bunch of incompetent nitwits more concerned with doing evil science experiments than even making sure that they themselves aren't kidnapped and murdered. It doesn't do anyone justice, and I would certainly have preferred Junko be left as a black mark on the series than have the entire anime suffer trying to "fix" her.

But I think we can all agree, dub Junko is best Junko.

I figured Junko is someone who sees herself as the center of the universe so anything happening has to be attributed to her. Kyoko questioned how is it possible two people caused the end of the world no matter how awesome they are and she didn't have a good explanation, suggesting that it is indeed not her ability alone that caused it. However DR3 makes it look like it's a complete accident that she caused the Tragedy, perhaps the same way as someone who accidentally hit the 'launch all nuclear missiles' button triggering a world war. Being a catalyst means you still have to contribute significantly to the end of the world and she simply didn't do enough.

More like Junkhoe, amirite?

I'm a big fan how the ending of DR2 is Hajime choosing to abort the game because he believes everyone in the class is strong enough to overcome Junko's influence then in DR3 "Junko's influence" is magic mind control so there'd be no fucking way they'd be able to actually overcome it

thanks DR3 i never liked palatable endings anyway

I love Junko in every iteration. She's all over the place and she knows it, such as actually narrating parts of Despair Arc episode 5 and her multiple personalities.

Junko was bored of the world the second she was bored, because her real talent is the Ultimate Analyst. People wonder about what event caused her to fall to despair, but I think there is no event like that because it's a result of her talent. Izuru suffers from the same crisis, which is why he was so easily influenced by Junko in the first place (you can do a lot of comparing these two since they share the Ultimate Analyst talent). Even though her plan to murder Matsuda herself succeeded in giving her an extreme dose of self-loathing and despair, that's the problem for her. Those feelings turn into frustration because everything turned out just the way she wanted; it was just another predictable event in her life. With her talent, she is cursed to keep living with this feeling.

This is why all of her plans have a fair chance at failing. She secretly hopes for something unpredictable to happen to satisfy her need for despair. She's even aware of the contradiction of "hoping for despair," which of course causes her to despair even more.

So when her plan for ultimate despair, the Killing School Life fails at the hands of Makoto Naegi, a completely ordinary person with luck even more unpredictable than Nagito, Junko is in ecstasy. Just think: "the hopelessly perfect human," who is so bored of everything including her own personalities, and who can create intricate plans that (despairingly) succeed... actually had her plan fail right at the end. She's never felt this alive before, and it's the last thing she feels as her execution is right after being beaten by the 6 survivors of the Killing School Life.

I also enjoy her game and anime voice actresses. Personally, I prefer the game actresses for them making her personalities' voices enjoyable, and her natural speaking voice sounds like she's also thinking of a scheme to kill you. As for the anime, the voices of the personalities are annoying at times. However, I love Jamie Marchi's voice for Junko. It's just so obnoxious and over-the-top which makes some of her threatening lines funny because she delivers them with that voice.

So yeah, I love Junko. She's my favourite character because she's hilariously ridiculous.

Her English dub voice

Shsl white girl

I love it

I hate Junko with a burning passion because of how flat her character is but the dub version of Junko in DR3 made everything ten million times better and I love her. I hope no one bashes English Junko.

DR3 ruined the Junko I know.

If she hadn't reappeared after DR1, she probably wouldn't be the worst character in the series.

-1 points 4 months ago 
Speaking strictly about the games, one of the complaints I hear about this franchise is about how one-dimensional the characters are. I would disagree for nearly every example, except Junko. In her case, though, this isn't necessarily a bad thing. She's evil, she knows it, she loves it, and she doesn't have to tell you why. Also, her English voice actress was freaking amazing.

Now to anime Junko, first of all screw her English VA in the throat. The "Every Valley Girl Ever" shtick makes DR3 especially darn-near unwatchable. As for the character herself, yeah, everyone else pretty much covered what I would have said, so good on you, community.

Character Discussion #63 - Chisa Yukizome (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Gonna be totally honest i have zero analysis lol I still can't figure out if she was an essential character or had no purpose at all

I will say that she's an interesting concept as she has worked both sides. Unfortunately she is brainwashed late into despair arc and dies instantly in future arc, so we don't get to see lots of it on screen. Although the scene where she killed those kids is one of the stronger ones overall.

I also think she's a character that is a little too distant from her talent. Outside of her wearing an apron, there's pretty much nothing that makes her an ultimate housekeeper vs an ultimate teacher or something. Considering she does a lot of investigating, it would have been more interesting if she found secret passages/access to hidden rooms due to her building knowledge rather than some random sneaking around.

There's nothing particularly wrong with her but that's disappointing since she's essential to much of the despair arc. Nothing about her captured my interest so I'm wondering what others think

Edit: I've been thinking about it and realized that I have no interest in her character because I don't care about that trio at all. I don't think any of them are likable or have interesting arcs.

My proposition would be to just make them a corrupted version of the dr1 trio. Munakata is already presented as a counterpart to makoto. Just go all the way and make chisa a foil to kyoko.

Her arc is like a reverse kyoko, she starts really close with munakata and distances herself more and more until she's completely against him. She also has some level of detective skill, that could be used as well. Put more emphasis on her investigation. Have her quickly pick up on the trail and confront junko at ryota's house where she is brainwashed. From there she feeds munakata false information to set him up. For example, have her convince munakata to add the underground structure which is then used for the future killing game.

In flashbacks show her manipulating munakata, putting him in traps to watch his friends die, leaking info to the despairs, etc.

Her character simply doesn't do much. First she's a mom, then she's working with munakata, then she's brainwashed and kicks the can. I feel like that's a lot of wasted screentime, especially since she drives munakata who also gets a ton of screentime.

I still can't figure out if she was an essential character or had no purpose at all

she had big tiddies. i'd call that essential.

Highlight Chisa moment for me is when she slapped Nagito in the face but then held him and told him he's not worthless, because who hasn't wanted to both knock some sense into him and coddle him lol

I like the concept of her as a mommy teacher, but the anime quickly cut out fun slice of life moments to squeeze in as many plot points as it possibly could fit so her potential as a character didn't get a whole lot of time to shine over her being a plot device.

The sentence about squeezing in plot points reminded me about how she basically disappears for 6 months. She can't even fill in with her main role as a teacher. It's like they realized she's not really doing much and said fuck it.

Also I almost forgot about the juzo-hajime incident. She watched a world champion boxer beat up a 15 year old, tell him his life is worthless, tell him the lives of all his classmates mean nothing, spit on him, and couldn't even be mad about it for more than like a day. Every time I remember that scene I'm in awe at how absurd it was

Of all the things weird about DR3, that scene wasn't one of them for me. Chisa had a serious blind spot for people's negative traits. It made her a great teacher, yet also a terrible enabler. It's why she followed Munakata so fervently, how she'd been friends with Sakakura for so long... she forgave everything far too easily.

It's also why her light touch let Nagito get away with bombing the damn school when she should have known better. Basically, it is a logical flaw... but it makes sense as a character flaw of Chisa's rather than just a writing flaw.

I just feel like it's way too over the top. I get that they're trying to show how nobody cares about the reserve course, but there's no need for repeated punching, spitting, and verbal assault. Doing one of those things is already enough to get the message across.

Chisa is very forgiving of her friends' actions, but it feels a little weird for a teacher to not really be worried about an adult annihilating a student. She's even portrayed as more accepting of the reserve course and yet doesn't say much about her friend saying their lives are worthless.

Plus imo it made it hard for me to like the new trio with this kind of interaction with an established character. This incident alone made me hate juzo and I didn't really care about his redemption arc because he's a humongous jerk for no reason.

Is there any character in the series who gets a shittier ending than her? She's nice and well-meaning but then gets brainwashed, kills a bunch of kids, then I guess brainwashes Tengan to start a killing game which she ends up killing herself in? The only character who comes close is Mikan but only if you ignore Hope Arc

Don't have much to say. She works well as a diversion as I thought she was the traitor for a good while (Munakata's response to Tegan's questions supported this)

Let's face it, if you weren't a student in Class 77 or 78 not named Chiaki, then you got probably fucked over hard in DR3.

Hell, even the 77th class doesn't really get a very happy ending, spending the rest of their lives secluded on an island doomed to be reviled as collaborators with history's greatest monster... Beats being dead, I guess.

if you weren't a student in Class 77 or 78 not named Chiaki, then you got probably fucked over hard in DR3.

Are you implying Chiaki didn't get fucked over hard? Need I remind you that she's the only one from her class who actually died?

Yeah, I realize it's a double negative and easy to misconstrue. When I say "If you're not student in Class 77 or 78" that's indicating that those are the only people who got out of the mess somewhat intact, then I add that exception "not named Chiaki," So another way to read it that's easier to interpret would be, "If you're in Class 77 or 78 and your name isn't Chiaki, you got out okay."

How did she brainwash Tengan? She just gave him the tools he needed to start his plan.

I could be wrong, I only heard about it in a reddit comment about some DR3 manga(?) or something that revealed she actually manipulated Tengan into starting the killing game and making him think it's his idea

Regardless of the truth, I found this out months after DR3 and neither scenario makes me feel any better about her ending

Nah, there was a scene in the Killer Killer manga where Tengan shows the typical despair eyes but those eyes aren't indication of being brainwashed as Nagito showed them frequently in DR2 when he wasn't brainwashed at all.

Episode 12 of DR3 reveals Chisa manipulated Munakata into becoming more and more ruthless which pushed him away from Tengan and made them clash, that situation brought Tengan to despair as he realized that the FF would never fully save the world which is why he decided to rely on Ryota's talent.

those eyes aren't indication of being brainwashed as Nagito showed them frequently in DR2 when he wasn't brainwashed at all.

I don't consider that as valid evidence, because SDR2 predates the existence of brainwashing as a major plot point or "despair eyes" as indication that someone is brainwashed. In SDR2, it was just meant to emphasize his insanity. Not to mention how chaotic/detailed they look, compared to DR3's simple and stereotypical swirly eyes.

Remember that Chisa gave Tengan both the suicide video AND the despair brainwashing video. He used the suicide video as part of his plan, but what happened to the other one? The logical conclusion is that he watched it himself. It was a stupid idea, but considering your version amounts to "he decided all the FF heads except Ryota needed to die because Kyosuke was too extreme", I'd consider it the lesser of two stupids.

If he was brainwashed, there are other things it would explain, too: Why he didn't take extra measures to prevent Ryota from participating, for instance. If he was completely sane, letting Ryota participate in something so incredibly dangerous when his entire plan hinged on Ryota's survival would be beyond stupid. He may have had a genuine desire to have Ryota broadcast the Hope Video, but being brainwashed meant trying to bring it about in the worst and most self-destructive way possible.

I don't consider that as valid evidence, because SDR2 predates the existence of brainwashing as a major plot point

DR0 though

or "despair eyes" as indication that someone is brainwashed. In SDR2, it was just meant to emphasize his insanity.

I believe it's still used to indicate that.

Not to mention how chaotic/detailed they look, compared to DR3's simple and stereotypical swirly eyes.

Just a difference in art style.

Remember that Chisa gave Tengan both the suicide video AND the despair brainwashing video. He used the suicide video as part of his plan, but what happened to the other one? The logical conclusion is that he watched it himself.

That makes no sense. Why would he watch a video that he knows it's bad news? It's a far more likely idea that he just gave the despair brainwashing back to Ryota and asked him to find a way to revert it into the hope brainwashing video.

Remember that Junko spells out why Tengan did what he did in her last monologue in episode 12, nowehere is the despair brainwashing mentioned as a motive.

It was a stupid idea, but considering your version amounts to "he decided all the FF heads except Ryota needed to die because Kyosuke was too extreme", I'd consider it the lesser of two stupids.

Ever heard of "the ends justify the means". For Tengan, who definitely did not believe in the FF anymore, what he planned to do probably felt like a necessary evil for the sake of what he considered to be the greater good.

If he was brainwashed, there are other things it would explain, too: Why he didn't take extra measures to prevent Ryota from participating, for instance.

He did though, he never expected Ryota to appear.

If he was completely sane, letting Ryota participate in something so incredibly dangerous when his entire plan hinged on Ryota's survival would be beyond stupid.

It would be worse if he just took Ryota off the game after he appeared. He would be the number 1 suspect for the mastermind and this would unite the others.

Also I believe he did exactly what he deemed necessary to guarantee Ryota's survival in the game when he asked Ryota to stay together with Kyoko, he probably believed she'd be able to solve the mystery and, going by her behavior in the DR1 killing game, wouldn't hesitate in sacrificing Makoto for her own sake.

He may have had a genuine desire to have Ryota broadcast the Hope Video, but being brainwashed meant trying to bring it about in the worst and most self-destructive way possible.

The brainwashing would mostly make him love despair though and he outright wanted to erase it.

DR0 though

Notice I said "major". Only reserve course nobodies were brainwashed in DR0.

I believe it's still used to indicate that.

And I don't, at least in this context, hence why we're arguing here.

Just a difference in art style.

Not necessarily. Differences in art style often indicate differences in what they're trying to express.

That makes no sense. Why would he watch a video that he knows it's bad news? It's a far more likely idea that he just gave the despair brainwashing back to Ryota and asked him to find a way to revert it into the hope brainwashing video.

That would account for where it ended up, true. But we can't say for sure he didn't watch it. His plan in Future Arc implies he places a low value on his own life, since it was highly likely he'd die as a result of it and the show would go on without him. My assumption is curiosity compelled him, he needed to be sure Chisa was telling the truth, and it would be callous to just test it on some underling so he figured he'd have to watch it himself. Presumably, he trusted Chisa to warn the other FF heads about him before he could do too much damage. Admittedly, I'm stretching it pretty thin at this point.

Remember that Junko spells out why Tengan did what he did in her last monologue in episode 12, nowehere is the despair brainwashing mentioned as a motive.

There's plenty of reasons she could've neglected to mention it that don't amount to "he wasn't actually brainwashed".

Ever heard of "the ends justify the means". For Tengan, who definitely did not believe in the FF anymore, what he planned to do probably felt like a necessary evil for the sake of what he considered to be the greater good.

But here's the problem: If the whole point of Future Arc was to get Ryota to broadcast the Hope Video... why? He could've coerced Ryota or forced him into broadcasting it worldwide by other means, but we only see him jump to the most extreme solution available.

He did though, he never expected Ryota to appear.

We're never actually shown these countermeasures, though. Are we just supposed to assume they exist because Tengan is surprised?

It would be worse if he just took Ryota off the game after he appeared. He would be the number 1 suspect for the mastermind and this would unite the others.

Alright, I'll give you that. So let's say this exact scenario unfolds: The group believes Tengan is the mastermind. Kyosuke kills him, because that's logically the most efficient solution to stopping his plan.

They go to sleep, wake up, and someone dies anyways. Would they still believe Tengan is the mastermind? Some, maybe, but with Monaca-as-Miaya, Kyosuke's grudge against Makoto, and the 76th trio's conflict, there'd be plenty of conflict, infighting, and red herrings that would inevitably resurface. His plan would still unfold mostly as shown, his death simply being a minor stumbling block. Really, it isn't a big priority for Tengan to avoid acting suspicious here. But it IS a big priority for Ryota to survive.

The brainwashing would mostly make him love despair though and he outright wanted to erase it.

Now, this is more of a headcanon of mine, but let me digress: The older you are, the more resistant you are to Ryota's brainwashing techniques and the easier it is for the symptoms to go unnoticed. Chisa had to be forcibly restrained (for a very long time, IIRC) and her brain surgically altered for the Despair Video to have the effect it did. It's possible it didn't quite have the intended effect on Tengan. I think he himself was convinced his actions were for the sake of hope, but the despair brainwashing made him subconsciously embrace extreme and self-destructive methods.

And, frankly, what's more despair-inducing than being responsible for turning the world into soulless, emotionless husks? That might technically qualify as eradicating despair, but Tengan probably values his own despair over that of the world's, as seen with Junko in DR1 executing herself instead of the survivors.

Hope and despair aren't sports teams, they're emotions. Even in Dangan Ronpa, characters who act as if they are tend to be crazy. Nagito exists to demonstrate a sort of horseshoe effect (that is, opposite extremes of a spectrum having more in common with each other than the middle ground), justifying despair-inducing actions by claiming they'll lead to a stronger hope. So, point being, this isn't black-and-white and Tengan could've deluded himself into believing his actions were for hope when they really weren't.

Notice I said "major". Only reserve course nobodies were brainwashed in DR0.

And those "nobodies" are those who actively helped bring about the real tragedy of Hope's Peak.

Not necessarily. Differences in art style often indicate differences in what they're trying to express.

The animes made by Lerche and the games have a clear different of art style. That's what I meant.

But okay, Junko herself has what looks like the anime's "despair eyes" at the end of DR1 and I doubt she was brainwashed. She was just insane.

That would account for where it ended up, true. But we can't say for sure he didn't watch it. His plan in Future Arc implies he places a low value on his own life, since it was highly likely he'd die as a result of it and the show would go on without him

He did say in his video towards Ryota that, as an d man, he wasn't going to survive for much longer so I suppose he would embrace something like dying for the sake of his cause.

My assumption is curiosity compelled him, he needed to be sure Chisa was telling the truth, and it would be callous to just test it on some underling so he figured he'd have to watch it himself. Presumably, he trusted Chisa to warn the other FF heads about him before he could do too much damage. Admittedly, I'm stretching it pretty thin at this point.

You really are. Doing something like that for curiosity is plain dumb even if you consider DR3 standarts.

There's plenty of reasons she could've neglected to mention it that don't amount to "he wasn't actually brainwashed".

It would be counter productive for the anime for her to not spell out the reasons for Tengan's plan in the last episode of the Future arc.

But here's the problem: If the whole point of Future Arc was to get Ryota to broadcast the Hope Video... why? He could've coerced Ryota or forced him into broadcasting it worldwide by other means, but we only see him jump to the most extreme solution available.

Because he didn't want to force Ryota, he wanted Ryota to grow a backbone and choose to do that by himself. That is because he wasn't going to survive for long and he saw Ryota as someone who could inherit his ideals.

We're never actually shown these countermeasures, though. Are we just supposed to assume they exist because Tengan is surprised?

I mean, of course not. It would be too obvious If we saw them but he's clearly surprised with the fact that Ryota was there.

Once the damage was done, he saddled Ryota with Kyoko because he believed her to be the one with best chances for survival.

Alright, I'll give you that. So let's say this exact scenario unfolds: The group believes Tengan is the mastermind. Kyosuke kills him, because that's logically the most efficient solution to stopping his plan. They go to sleep, wake up, and someone dies anyways. Would they still believe Tengan is the mastermind? Some, maybe, but with Monaca-as-Miaya, Kyosuke's grudge against Makoto, and the 76th trio's conflict, there'd be plenty of conflict, infighting, and red herrings that would inevitably resurface. His plan would still unfold mostly as shown, his death simply being a minor stumbling block. Really, it isn't a big priority for Tengan to avoid acting suspicious here. But it IS a big priority for Ryota to survive

They wouldn't suspect Tengan, they would suspect Ryota, the one who appeared at last minute but suddenly wasn't around for the killing game.

Without Ryota openly participating in the game they wouldn't be able to target him and suspicion towards him would not fall off no matter how many died.

Now, this is more of a headcanon of mine, but let me digress: The older you are, the more resistant you are to Ryota's brainwashing techniques and the easier it is for the symptoms to go unnoticed. Chisa had to be forcibly restrained (for a very long time, IIRC) and her brain surgically altered for the Despair Video to have the effect it did. It's possible it didn't quite have the intended effect on Tengan. I think he himself was convinced his actions were for the sake of hope, but the despair brainwashing made him subconsciously embrace extreme and self-destructive methods.

Yeah, there is nothing to indicate that. I can't exactly argue against a headcanon.

And, frankly, what's more despair-inducing than being responsible for turning the world into soulless, emotionless husks? That might technically qualify as eradicating despair, but Tengan probably values his own despair over that of the world's, as seen with Junko in DR1 executing herself instead of the survivors.

I'd argue that he doesn't sees his plan as a despairful thing. Rather, he saw it as his hope

they're emotions. Even in Dangan Ronpa, characters who act as if they are tend to be crazy. Nagito exists to demonstrate a sort of horseshoe effect (that is, opposite extremes of a spectrum having more in common with each other than the middle ground), justifying despair-inducing actions by claiming they'll lead to a stronger hope. So, point being, this isn't black-and-white and Tengan could've deluded himself into believing his actions were for hope when they really weren't.

His actions certainly weren't for what hope actually is, it was for the sake of his own concept of hope which in the end is no different from what Munakata was doing.

Ah ok, thanks for the clarification

When does she kill a bunch of kids? Was that when she blew up part of the school because I thought that was when her and the class were still inside and they survived somehow? Maybe I need to just rewatch the whole thing

Killed preschoolers offscreen

oh ok

Chisa's the most tragic character in the Danganronpa universe. But there was a little light at the end.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5e7tz-HJZBA

She should have been the main mastermind for DR3, tbh. All of the points seem to lead towards it:

She's the DR2 cast's teacher who helped to connect the DR2 characters together,

she was brainwashed pre-tragedy which gives her a good opportunity for despair stuff,

she was in contact with Munakata, which gives her a good excuse to know the specifics of the Future Foundation base and maybe make a duplicate underneath (or maybe not, but it works better than Tengan just deciding to have a double for the sake of it)

she better represents the Hope vs. Hope idea for DR3 instead of Tengan,

she was the technical protag of Despair Arc,

she died first in Future Arc and

she is to Munakata what Kyoko is to Makoto, which makes for a good mastermind twist (at least I think so)

I should mention that I actually do like her character because she just wanted to help out the DR2 characters and that's nice, but in terms of the plot, she practically functions as a way for the plot to move forward.

First, Chisa helps to make the DR2 class interact with each other and it works as everyone is now the best of friends (in like 2 days, but still). She helps Munakata find information about Izuru (which is too late by that point) and also helps to find information about Junko (only to get brainwashed in the process). In the end, Chisa proceeds to chuck Chiaki straight into an elevator to die, leaves to be with Munakata, waits her sweet time for several years doing nothing other than killing a bunch of people (i.e. children in a park) and crying to Munakata so that he feels worse and finally, it's time for the Future Arc. Now Chisa gives Tengan the memory stick with the suicide video, but... why? I feel like she could have just done it herself and be the mastermind. But nope, we needed Tengan to be the mastermind, so chronologically Chisa does all of these events in Despair Arc only to lead up to her killing herself during a killing game she didn't even plan. This would have made more sense if she forced him to watch the brainwashing video, but she just gave it to him and wished that he was senile and hope-filled enough to kill the leaders of the foundation that he runs. In hindsight, this is more against DR3 as a whole, but Chisa to me is DR3's way of moving the plot forward.

Chisa being the mastermind would:

1) Be too obvious

2) Use the same fake body twist again

To an extent, yes, but what we got instead wasn't much better.

It wouldn't, though? DR3's setup is unique in that the whole thing is autonomous and functions whether or not the mastermind is dead. There's no need for her body to be fake.

1) What we got was at least a nice idea, only somewhat poorly executed. Chisa being the MM isn't a "nice idea", it's just Junko all over again doing it for muh despair.

2) The autonomous twist worked because the MM was the head of the organization and had the resource to prepare the set up. Chisa'd lack the power to set that up.

Point taken. I was never a huge fan of the idea, honestly. I think lots of people expected Tengan to be the MM, too, just not as many.

Chisa is a FF branch head, which isn't a huge step down from being the FF's leader. She has her own resources, and if DR3 was rewritten so that her branch specialty subtly foreshadowed being able to set up something like this it wouldn't even be an issue.

2) They explain in the series that only Munakata ir the chairman had the authority to mess with the FF buildings though.

and if DR3 was rewritten so that her branch specialty subtly foreshadowed being able to set up something like this it wouldn't even be an issue.

Still kind of problematic that she was able to set all that up in front of Munakata's face. Makes him even more of a failure.

I agree with all of this.

I think not having Chisa be the mastermind was a bad idea. It would have been cliche, maybe, but they could have done it in a less cliche way. Like the Chisa = Aoi theory would have been a shocker and less BS then Tengan just deciding to become a psycho.

Chisa's story (and how it affected Munakata) is actually one of the main stories that DR3 wanted to tell. There is a bit of a hidden chapter of her story that requires a careful rewatching of Chisa's behavior in the first Future episode. Namely, that Makoto's project to save her class had actually inspired feelings of hope in her and that in her final days she was conflicted. This is why she wouldn't make for a good mastermind.

I made a video that goes over the details. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5e7tz-HJZBA

I just want to comment on the atrocity that is her Despair Arc design. Her boobs are so obnoxiously disproportionate and in your face that it distracted me from whatever was happening when she was talking.

As an tits man, I agree. Even someone like Miu with canonically the largest breasts in the series by far (excluding Sakura ofc) doesn't distract me as much as Chisa, or even Mikan in the same arc. If they were a bit proportionate though, she would definitely look similar as DDLC's Monika.

Monika.

That's actually been done.

Finally, someone on this comment section I can agree on.

Say what you want to about her as a character but her brainwashing is one of the most fucked up moments in the whole series

I've never been more horrified by fiction.

Her character is badly botched. Like many of you, I can see where they were going with her, but it went so badly. When the show killed her off in Future, I was ready to learn why I should love her, cry for her and wish that she hadn't passed. But the show never gave me that reason.

For the first few episodes of Despair, everything just goes well for her, and everything she tries to do just kinda works out cheaply. DR1 and DR2 spoil us with the fact that bad things are happening and almost cannot be stopped. The notable characters work as hard as they can to overcome this hardship in spite of failing or being set back. As a result, they earn our respect. As silly as the Danganronpa games get, (And they do get pretty silly), they always do a great job of showing characters interact in a very honest and dynamic way. People change, people hate each other, then earn each others respect. But Chisa just basically clowns around for one day and everybody suddenly loves and respects her. It doesn't jive at all. When the plot finally lets her fail and get brainwashed, she just kinda keeps on being good, except for the bad guys.

Now, what I would have like to have seen is her struggling to wrangle the kids together, and being disrespected or disregarded by most of them. She tries to approach them on their own level, but unlike in canon, it just doesn't quite get through to them. So we see her put herself out there and fall flat. Then she realizes that what she's trying to be is not what she needs to be, and so she has to take a more disciplined approach. The first few episodes of the DR3 we got are a complete waste of time, so using that time to have Chisa work really hard to get through to the kids and only succeeding bit by bit would work so much better. This is especially essential for the plot to convey since she's actually not there to be a teacher, but to be a spy. Having her put her spy duties aside to be a better teacher would be something interesting, but it's not really necessary since she just does it effortlessly.

The most infuriating part of her character for me was one small scene, but also one HUGE missed opportunity. At one point, she takes the fall for Komaeda and is forced to teach at the Reserve course. This could have been a big moment for her, seeing the plight of the reserve course, understanding what they have to go through, and feeling the malcontent of the normals directed at her because she's a privileged ultimate, or perhaps being an icon for the same reason. And yet, nope! It's just a stupid joke about how much of a drag it is. I laughed long and hard at this. Not with the show, but at it. It completely threw away a wonderful opportunity. At this point, I could only marvel at the story. How could such a strong moment so be openly disregarded by the writers?

I would have LOVED Chisa if she struggled to get through to the students. But she doesn't. I would have LOVED the moment where she has to teach the reserve course and learns what it's like first hand. But the show ignores it. So we're left with this husk of a character who could have been great. And I felt no reason to feel the tragedy of her death or despairification.

And yet, nope! It's just a stupid joke about how much of a drag it is. I laughed long and hard at this

If you paid any attention the one who said that her time there was a drag was, you'd notice that it was the Chisa in the narration, which was probably a hint that she would fall into despair later on.

Eh. The fact of the matter is that the narrative didn't focus on the interesting parts. I don't care if it had an excuse, it still left me unsatisfied.

Consider this: What if, instead of getting to see the post-trial scenes of a beloved character's trial and execution, the main character just said "Darn! That sucked. Next chapter!" and we skipped to the next Daily life. But later we're told that our character missed some important details during the execution, so the viewer wasn't shown it so that we can follow the character's reasoning better. This might be a decent excuse, but we want to see the accused explain themselves, see them get executed and see the other students react to the execution. It's a bad and lazy decision to cut the scene out, even if the justification makes sense.

If they really wanted to tint Despair Arc through the lens of Chisa's despairification they could have done a MUCH better job, and hinted at it in a much more sinister and clever way.

What a darn shame..

Darn Counter: 11144

darn

What a darn shame..

Darn Counter: 52413

I didn't quite get what you're advocating for here tbh...

I mean, the scenes of her in the reserve course just weren't important for the actual plot and DR3 was already running on time constraints, having to cut scenes from the original script in order to sort out the pacing.

But it could have been important. Meanwhile, Despair Episode 2 was largely irrelevant to the plot and contributed basically nothing (Aside from Chiaki's gaming making her classmates like her). There are plenty of things you could cut for time if you wanted to make that scene have more impact.

Chiaki uniting her class and becoming class rep was important for the plot. Arguably more so than Chisa trying to teach the reserve course and failing because her method of teaching just isn't fit for them.

The director for DR3 did want to include a lot of things (like for example more anime original scenes of class 78), unfortunately there really was a lack of time and a problem with pacing.

I mean, the scenes of her in the reserve course just weren't important for the actual plot and DR3 was already running on time constraints.

Chisa and the cast (Chiaki) kept talking about how "Talent doesn't make you better than other people," so when I first heard she was going to the reserve course I thought we'd get a scene about them being treated poorly, or showing the contrast between the resources for the reserve students and the ultimates. For the writers to neglect to include a scene shows how shallow and fake this sentiment truly is in the series. The reserve course students essentially get no time at all developing, and this aspect was annoying to me since they act as major sources of conflict

the scenes of her in the reserve course just weren't important for the actual plot

There were plenty of scenes throughout DR3 that were not important to the plot, I don't see how this point has validity.

Chisa is a strange character, in that she feels at once necessary to the story but also completely removable. I could totally see the exact same story play out without her in it, but at the same time she has scenes where she feels somewhat essential to the plot. Her talent is kind of unique and interesting, but she never really uses it in an interesting way. I would've liked to see more of her brainwashed self come out, because she's basically just a bomb waiting to go off but otherwise normal for most of the show. That scene where she killed all of the children is very powerful, but I would've liked more detail. Maybe show just a little more, so it's not completely left in the dark how she did it and why. Overall, kind of a 6/10 character: Certainly not bad, but not great either.

Chisa is a strange character, in that she feels at once necessary to the story but also completely removable.

I think the reason for this is that her story (including Kyosuke coming to terms with her having been corrupted) was basically its own plot, for better or worse. She was a pretty throwaway character before the brainwashing, but she is remarkably interesting in Future episode one, if you rewatch it. I made a video explaining why there is more going on with her at the time than just "Despair".

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5e7tz-HJZBA

Chisa's a bit of a disappointment. Early on it seemed like she was supposed to be extremely important, and technically she is in the "she's a despair so it's all partly her fault", but her early character in Future arc seemed to indicate she was the same sweet lady as in despair arc (if Junko and that one kid who cut his own head off were any indication, despairs don't exactly hide their nature very well) and we only see a few glimpses of her "despair-ness" that don't really amount to anything plotwise. Ultimately, the whole "Chisa is corrupted by despair" twist doesn't really do anything for her character and just serves to try to justify Munakata's killing rampage... Which I don't think it does, but your mileage may vary...

It seems like they were going for a sort of awesome but likable person, almost an anti-Junko, but that seems like a missed point. For Class 77 with their unpleasant home lives, I think it would've made more sense to play up the motherly figure approach, which would have been a great opportunity to delve into the students more. Her meeting Teruteru's mother or helping Akane take care of her siblings would have been adorable and may have given some less well-liked characters more of a spotlight. Instead, we learn she carries knives and is a cool teacher who can relate to the kids, which would work fine as well if they actually delved into how she manages to find links with the quirkier members of the cast, but since Class 77 is a bunch of perfect cinnamon rolls in this portrayal the whole opportunity is lost.

Then there's her relationship with... basically everyone else. With Hajime, it's fine, believable enough that a teacher, particularly a kind one like Chisa, would be concerned about someone in a bind and skipping class. With Juzo and Munakata, she seems to be on very good terms. Juzo goes out of his way to get her a security card so she can break into restricted areas (why it's the teacher's job to get restricted documents and not the guy who is ostensibly the head of security is a mystery known only to Munakata), but I never got any sort of ship vibes from them like some people did.

With Munakata... Well, I think we all understood that they were romantically entangled. We probably should've gotten more than a few sentences and a few flashback frames, and ideally there would be more to their relationship than the fact that they might sleep together, but we enough from Munakata to get the gist.

Also the "Aoi is Chisa" theory was stupid... What, you don't remember how about half the sub thought the ending twist was going to be that Asahina had died for real and Chisa dressed up as her and took her place? Yeah, I don't blame you, it didn't really make sense, just wishful thinking that Asahina's fakeout death might actually lead to something plot-relevant...

her early character in Future arc seemed to indicate she was the same sweet lady as in despair arc

Some of her behavior in Future one was genuine, like her request for Makoto to try to understand Kyosuke.

When you first watch Future episode 1 Chisa comes off as innocent and genuine. Then after knowing she was brainwashed a new layer of truth about her motivations during Future 1 is revealed- that she was an agent for Despair and everything was an act. However, there is yet another layer under that one in which she is in the middle of remembering Hope once again thanks to Makoto's project to save her students.

I made a video explanation.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5e7tz-HJZBA

For Class 77 with their unpleasant home lives

Being a bit too general here huh? For example, I don't see how Ibuki, Sonia, Nekomaru had unpleasant home lives.

"Unpleasant home lives" might not fit everyone (hell, it doesn't even fit Teruteru and I mentioned him in the very next sentence), but I think overall it would make for a better dynamic for Class 77 for her to be a more motherly figure... Aww hell, we don't have analysis pages for the "lesser" characters in DR3 anyway so I'll just put my thoughts on the subject for those three here:

Sonia's far from home and her family, it's entirely possible that the class could become a home away from home. I would've been nice to see her as the fish out of water that she would probably be when first arriving at Hope's peak, but given that the DR3 starts some time into the school year and that she didn't seem that much more out of place than the other students in DR2 it's not a big sticking point for me.

Ibuki would want to bring the group together, which doesn't require any sort of family atmosphere but wouldn't preclude it. She also really should've been the one organizing parties and stuff instead of Chiaki, it seems more fitting for her character.

Nekomaru... Well, I can't think of anything Chisa related for him but he would probably be more interested in helping the other students than in bonding with the teacher. I don't remember anything from DR2 that indicated how he would respond to any sort of authority figure, so I'll just leave it there.

That would be all fine and dandy but I don't think DR3 had the time to explore all of these characters separately.

Oh certainly not in detail, and it's definitely not one of the first changes I would make if I were changing it, but it would've been interesting overall. Plus, simple things like altering who does what or replacing one of the generic anime hijinks sequences (or one of Hajime's brooding sessions since most of them didn't amount to anything in the end) in the first two episodes with a sequence of short snippets of character interactions would be a completely plausible option. Used well you can fit quite a lot into a very short time.

I'd say the random anime hijinks fits DR more than some introspective drama from the start.

Sonia has been kidnapped before.

Didn't seem to affect her love for her country or her passion for serial killers. It's safe to say that event wasn't really important in who her character was.

She left her country to attend Hope's Peak because she wanted to live like a normal person. She accepts her duty to her country but a part of her did want to run off and at least have a break from that life.

She did want to experience how a normal student is like but doing her FTEs I never felt that her duty to her country was a burden to her. I think some of your views regarding how Sonia feels tend to be a little headcanon based.

Also the "Aoi is Chisa" theory was stupid... What, you don't remember how about half the sub thought the ending twist was going to be that Asahina had died for real and Chisa dressed up as her and took her place? Yeah, I don't blame you, it didn't really make sense, just wishful thinking that Asahina's fakeout death might actually lead to something plot-relevant...

I don't think it was stupid and it could have even made sense. A lot of people noticed that Aoi's height was off and her bust size was bigger - never doubt obsessed fanboys! Not to mention she was a bit off character wise. Idk, it made sense and would have been better than the ending of future arc we did get.

A lot of people noticed that Aoi's height was off and her bust size was bigger

Well Naegi's also taller and has shorter hair, maybe he got replaced by Hajime while we weren't looking.

Not to mention she was a bit off character wise

You know, because DR3 had done so well with every other character...

Idk, it made sense

To be clear, I'm not blaming you if you got caught up in the hype. There were a lot of people insisting it was going to be the twist and it's easy to overlook relatively weak evidence when everyone else is already pushing it. I also follow Steven Universe, so I'm familiar with that sort of thing.

it would have been better than the ending of future arc we did get

I don't know about better overall, but it at least would have made some amount of logical sense compared to the old man starting the killing game for no sensible reason. Though I will note that "more sense" says more about how nonsensical the actual ending was than about the coherence of the Aoi is Chisa theory.

You know, because DR3 had done so well with every other character...
H'yup, the cringeworthy cinnamon roll package that was the entirety of Class 77-B comes to mind. I swear to god, class 77's portrayal in DR3 makes me want to bang my head against a wall repeatedly -_-

A lot of people noticed that Aoi's height was off and her bust size was bigger

It takes place some years after the events of D1, so...

So, uh, when will the character discussions continue? It's been over 2 weeks since this one.

[+13]u/KorrinX
 pls

[S]Huzzah I have returned!

[+13] 
HUZZAH!

[S]My bad, I've been caught up in things but now I'm back.

It's odd how such an important character is so utterly forgettable. She has some memorable scenes (mostly ones where something awful is happening though) but her character is just too wishy-washy. I got the impression that Usami was supposed to be based on her at first which made some sense, but then it seems she was just an AI mascot so I guess not?

I feel a big problem with her is how the DR2 class are portrayed in Despair arc. Had she been the struggling teacher trying to save her students from the influence of despair, she would have been more developed. Instead she just superwoman's her way into motivating everybody within half an episode. And just like them, her fall to Despair is just literal brainwashing which is just really uninteresting.

In all, a character who could have been fine but was limited by the shackles that DR3:Despair Arc put on her (These threads have made me realise that Future Arc is far from perfect but the majority of DR3's biggest problems are forged in the Despair side)

Hey this may seem like a weird time to bring it up seeing as she has no connection to it but I'm going to talk about V3 for a bit. It's just an observation between something she reminds me of from it but don't forget your spoiler tags if you respond to this part. V3 Full Game Spoilers

I'm a simple man. I see big anime titties, I hit like.

Mommy Sue!
I...kinda didn't bother with Chisa, or making a thorough analysis of her. For despair arc, she's pretty much a tour guide to guide us through the chernobyl explosion that is Despair Arc, with her situation changing accordingly. She was a very basic mommy sue character that i just didn't pay attention to. It's almost like she's there for the sole purpose of connecting all the subplots(she is), she's the one with the connection to Munakata, Hajime and class 77, and is the one to trade information around. As i said, tour guide, plot device, whatever you wanna call her, Chisa is certainly a character that existed...not much else to say.

Chisa was one of my favourite characters up until she became "Chisa Yukizome the baby sitting slasher" I kinda imagined she was a bit too perfect but not invincible which isn't bad for a character to have but the fact she just gets despaired didn't add anything to her character but more because the plot demanded it (aka Munakata)

Other than that I did enjoy her character, the ultimate housekeeper talent is broken but who isn't at this point in Danganronpa.

The baby sitting slasher

the slash bringing hasher?

Worst female character in Danganronpa (ex aequo with Monophanie) but it's not so bad title because there are 6 or 7 degenerate males which are more annoying than her. XD

Her greatest fault is that she was stealing spotlight from 77th class in despair arc. I wanted to watch how my favorites from DR2 fell into despair, not irritating genki girl. I was surprised that she hadn't been called Scrappy. However her becoming cruel murder who destroys everything and everyone she loved was really saddening. Alas, poor Scrappy

The only character I have no problems with in DR3... Just Chisa (joke intended). In fact I even like her.

I find her self-determination admirable. When she got brainwashed i felt really sick to my stomach, i had to take a break because i felt like i was about to vomit. How such people can be broken really made feel despair. 10/10

+ monika looks like her, thats a plus for me

Very same. Like that scene I cannot watch ever because it really made me miserable. It was awful to watch and sucked because she was SO mentally strong. The despair video could not break her - they had to resort to other means. It was just ugh

Horrified me deeply. Couldn't think strait for days.

Most tragic character in Danganronpa. But there is a little light at the end.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5e7tz-HJZBA

Here's the thing.

I don't think I'll ever forgive the creator of the series for how royally messed up he treated Chisa's character and how his treatment of her character kinda made future arc really underwhelming (aside from the final episode but that's a separate arc, really)

First off, she was a brilliant character who had a lot of potential. She brought Class 77 together and helped unite them as a unit - a job that would be taken over by Nanami. But the point was that Chisa started the grunt work.

Now she was brainwashed in the most HORRIFYING way. Like don't get me wrong, Class 77's conversion was messed up...but Chisa's was just awful to watch. It's still one of two scenes I cannot watch. That's how painful it is. Chisa was so mentally strong that the despair video could not convert her. She needed to be essentially lobotomized in order to fall to despair.

And then once she fell to despair, she got no closure or like no redemption. She killed herself and nobody knew, least of all those closest to her, that she didn't simply GIVE IN to despair but despair was forced on her. So Munakata believed that she gave into despair and did horrible things. And that's really cruel and messed up.

Chisa was a brilliant character and they really dropped the ball with her. She should have been made the mastermind of future arc. I was hoping they would have done something crazy / cool and had her fake her death and be the mastermind. The theories of Chisa = Aoi or Junko from DR1 = Chisa would have been much less contrived and BS than who the mastermind actually was.

So for this and more, I feel like she was an amazing character who got a crappy deal from the writer of the series. I even named my ginger cat after her because she's equally as bad-ass. :D

And then once she fell to despair, she got no closure or like no redemption.

I know exactly how you feel. Haunted me for days. Never have I been so horrified by fiction.

I had to reconcile what happened to her, so I reviewed the scenes she was in... and found there's a bit more to Chisa's story which actually makes it brilliant and the best part of DR3.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5e7tz-HJZBA
She killed herself and nobody knew, least of all those closest to her, that she didn't simply GIVE IN to despair but despair was forced on her. So Munakata believed that she gave into despair and did horrible things. And that's really cruel and messed up.

Hajime knows.

And I'm not sure it really matters for Munakata, after the reconciliation he had with Makoto. He remembers that he loves her regardless of how she fell into Despair, and he's realized that feeling that way is right. That's what's really important.

Best girl.

I will fucking cut anyone that tries to besmirch my cinnamon roll.

She is brave, and would do anything for Munakata, Juzo and her students

Try me, hahaha

cut

oof

A body has been discovered

Shortest class trial ever.

Shame she doesn't have an ahoge.

Hah, I knew it eventually would come down to her.

Anyone who hung out on this SR long should already know about my essay I made as thatshamanguy. And guess what? I'm not even done. I can still go on if people want to challenge me.

Dew it

She was kinda important

Would've been so cool if she was disguised as Aoi

The best character of the trio, but not that good.

Character Discussion #64 - Seiko Kimura (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Best DR3 design. One of only three likeable new characters introduced in DR3. One of the only DR3 characters who actually proves useful. One of the only ones we learn a full backstory for so that's probably a big factor of why she's one of the only bright spots of the mess that is DR3. While I understand some people may not like her episode on Despair side as it ultimately ended up being a filler episode which went nowhere due to all three members of that B-Plot dying, I would have preferred if Despair side was entirely like that with the Killing Game participant backstories rather than the mess that the Junko story was.

Wasted opportunity #3189 of DR3: Ruruka doesn't find Seiko's body and discovers that Seiko was holding on to that piece of candy this entire time and uses this as a catalyst to become a better person instead of killing her own boyfriend.

Also screw Nagito. He ruined her life for his own stupid ideals, but of course he gets a slap on the wrist for effectively SETTING UP EXPLOSIVES IN A SCHOOL ENVIRONMENT while Seiko gets expelled for using her talent effectively. One of these two survives and gets to live out the rest of his life on a party boat, the other died scared and alone in a killing game she didn't deserve to be dragged in to. Of all the points in DR3 that annoy me, this is the one that angers me the most.

The fact that nagito got 3 ultimates expelled is the icing on the shit cake that was that entire plan. Seemed like a big waste to take the episode which was supposed to give some insight on the 76th trio and devote it to nagito fucking around in the most nonsensical ways possible.

[S]And this wraps up the DR3 characters! Starting next Monday, the V3 character discussions shall begin in earnest! Starting with resident favorites, the Monokubs!

The jury's still out on whether those will be biweekly as well or I'll switch back to weekly, I'll think on it some until then and am open to feedback.

[+13]I can't wait for the V3 discussions. I'm already updating my Kirumi defense post.

Yo sign me up, I'mma defend the poor lady as well.

Kirumi Defense Squad reporting for duty.

Count me in, lads.

I will also join the Kirumi bandwagon.

protect kirumi

Can't wait to defend Monokid

Have Angie for a month please

Finally, there'll be a place to properly discuss the best boi!

prepares Keebo analysis in advance

Boi im with ya, Keebo protection squad assemble!

Actually since I started working on it, I've realized more things and now I'm more fired up than ever. I'm not sure I can wait two weeks anymore. But I must...

Getting the best boy document ready!

Sounds good. Could we have a bit of some prep if you happen to be late or something? Posts can get lost easily if they don't get lucky with the posting times, and it can be a bit of a discouragement if it just sorta happens at a random time.

If not that, could we have someone else backed up to post it maybe?

[S]Yeah, I realize having the last few DR3 posts being put up random times is a deterrent for posters.

I'm leaning to making the posts just weekly every Monday, that'll allow me to be more consistent with them while giving more downtime between each discussion as I notice there're still a lot of viewers/stragglers for old threads.

This time around I'll be sure to make a post if I take an extended leave and give rein to someone else.

She is by default the best girl of DR3. (Excluding Asahina and Kirigiri,) Future side only has four girls. One is in fact actually a robot, one is a despair ridden child murderer, and the other is Ruruka.

I rest my case.

Not really related to her character, but I've always been pretty convinced that her design took some inspiration from the fanmade picture of Mikan in UDG.

Where are the rest of these?

Here you go

Thanks fampai.

So the reign of Chisa has finally ended....

I don't have much to say about Seiko, she's cute? She's so nice but there's a really weird implication with Teruteru knowing her since it seems like she's his drug supplier but he goes as far as having date rape drugs which is pretty whoa. They could have cut out this implication of her being a drug dealer if they just had Nagito already know her without some middle man since he's got plenty of reasons to need medication.

[S]Sorry I forgot to clean up Chisa off the chandelier

I think considering she was using her stuff to enhance the candy, the implication is that Seiko simply helps out culinary students with her safe for consumption formulas rather than specifically giving Teruteru date rape drugs.

He probably has other connections too since there's implications he drugs his food for evil when he's in Despair and she probably wouldn't still be supplying him after she got kicked out of the school or joined up with FF to fight against Despairs. She's just the only one we know about.

There we go, after two whole weeks, we're out with the shit character and in with the good one.

Flame shield up

[S]Hahaha my bad on that, unexpectedly busy and all.

Everything should be back in smooth working order though! I know people have been waiting for DR3 to end and V3 to start!

I mean she seems like more of a Pharmacologist than Pharmacist.......

Her talent always confused me, I'm no drug genius but it seems kinda dumb that her power ups involve taking dozens of different pills all at once. This seems like the exact opposite of efficient drug use lol

With the 76th trio I feel like they hit exactly what I feared the ultimate talents would be: they can do whatever they want as long as there's some random connection to the talent. Like okay, because drugs she can turn into this weird monster with fangs and claws and chomp on a shit ton of different pills with no worries about toxicity or side effects. How does this have anything to do with pharmacy outside of pills lol. Or Riruka having brainwashing candy which is so absurdly powerful. What's the mechanism of action? How did she even figure out how to do it? Oh well it's tied to a candy so I'll believe it automatically. Or how the blacksmith is basically a ninja because I don't remember any point where he actually smiths a weapon, he just lays traps and chucks knives.

Saddest part about what you mention is that had there been more time they could have easily solved those questions. They could have explained the brainwashing candy part as Ruruka using some of Seiko's addictive drugs in her sweets. Seiko making Hulk candies? Well, perhaps, the company she worked or was doing some shady experimentation (which you could go as far as say resulted in her appearance now). Ninja Yoi? The previous generations of his family were skilled in making weapons and traps for combat/defense and, while in this century that skill wouldn't be needed (unless you were up to shady crap) they still taught him that just because they wanted to pass down the family tradition.

Yeah I think they could call be good characters in a future game but it'd be hard to find an in-universe reason where they suddenly came back to life lol

I like your idea for izayoi, it would be cool if he was from some ninja family. An idea is he hates fighting and prefers smithing, which is why he likes Riruka because her talent is so harmless. Plus it makes the fact that he's willing to fight to protect her more significant.

Riruka and seiko's conflict sucks imo, Riruka seems like a manipator and Seiko lets her do it for far too long. I'd like to see Riruka lean on Seiko initially but then start to develop and learn on her own, but Seiko tries to do everything for her. It makes Riruka's frustration seem more real because she feels underestimated by her friend while Seiko feels like she's just trying to help.

Brainwashing candies are pretty dumb but weaponized candies are an interesting idea. If they were tied to more physiological issues (inducing fever, muscle pain, etc) then it can be shown as Riruka developing off of seiko's example.

Seiko taking hulk drugs should be scrapped imo. It doesn't make a lot of sense and it's just an excuse to create a physical fight when DR has always been more about psychological battles. I like Seiko but maybe having her take a lot more pride in her abilities makes her less of a rollover and it's easier to see why Riruka would be undermined by her. Like instead of people saying "hey do this for me" she can say "I'll do that" even when they don't ask because she's so eager to please and she knows whatever she makes will help them a lot

Perhaps, they could make another Danganronpa Another Episode only it revolves around the Branch Leaders of FF and how they are handling a response against Despair (even show the unknown Thirteenth Branch Director?)

Yeah, that could really work for Izayoi. His 'silent tough guy' being a persona to having to avoid fighting would really work to help in his favor.

Yeah, DR is really bad when it comes to tackling a grey issue like this. I do like your idea and perhaps, instead of Komaeda not being there, and maybe they have their breaking apart being because the couldn't get past the issue of relying upon/breaking away from each other.

It kinda boggles my mind how badly they fucked up nagito in that episode lol

Yeah I would play the hell out of a game like that, but that's what I figured dr3 would be about and instead it was another killing game.

I really like the way you phrased that overarching theme since the main series games have the cast not trusting each other and learning to cooperate. It'd be cool to have a game flipping that dynamic and explored the divides in FF, especially since the factions seemed like a half-assed explanation for why everyone is so ready to kill each other.

Yeah, the DR3 cast really do deserve to at least have a prequel game about them, especially for those like Bandai or Miaya. Perhaps, it shows how they managed to get this far prior to Enoshima's death?

Going for the DRAE route, why not make it an RPG with Munakata as the MC and the other branch leaders being optional party members or navigators, with the plot revolving around them trying to keep the world stable during the Tragedy, while at the same time trying not to personally implode from their own in-action, leaving cracks that lead up to the anime and give us good reason as to why an organization that is trying to save the world would so quickly turn on each other.

That'd be interesting, the MC could potentially be the unknown 13th branch leader just so we can see the two main factions form from a 3rd party POV

I think having munakata be MC would be cool but it'd be hard to work with chisa when we know she's a traitor

The framework is theoretically there since UDG was originally supposed to involve fighting the UDs, it'd be cool to take them on

I would've loved to see a spin-off dealing with how they captured the UD. You would think that it be at least a minor plot point but...oh well. It's kinda like how the cast loses their memories. Doesn't matter really.

The POV of the 13 Director would be fine as well, it can even lead with him/her deciding to bring Asahina into the fray because after seeing things go down with the others they might want to see Naegi in one piece.

Having asahina as a partner character would be cool, not only because it lets the mc be more of a realist/pessimist, but also because we never saw a reaction to her learning of her brother's death

continue this thread

I sympathize with her a lot. She was trying really hard to make her extremely unreasonable friend happy, and it backfired on her.

I can't bring myself to hate Ruruka, but, seriously, fuck her.

She's very cute and has a cool back story but her big downfall is that she's in DR3 I wish we could have had her in some other form then the anime

Best Girl from the Anime. All that is needed to be said.

[+13]I'm not gonna lie, I haven't seen all of DR3. I'm still looking for a free way to watch the dub.

Anyway, for what little I've actually seen of Seiko, I like her. She seems like a decent person overall, though she did give TeruTeru the sex craze drug and can also turn into a monster.

kissanime has it for free. It's where I watched it

I saw Dr3 on crunchyroll these last days after watching JoJo.

[+13]I'll see if I can watch it there. Thanks!

no problem

I felt bad for her and how Ruruka treated her and tried to take advantage of her so much. She did save Kirigiri, whether she meant to or not, so shes alright by me :)

Okay, in all seriousness, I like Seiko. She's one of the few factors that made me glad sitting through DR3 for, and contrary to what all her haters say, she is not a creator's pet.

Sure, she weeps all innocently, but that's not her entire character. She does have the integrity to stand up socially to Ruruka and gets spotlight only when she's given purpose in the story or character development.

Speaking of which, her screentime hardly totals up to 1 hour. If she really is a creator's pet, she would've been given much, much more than that. coughchisuckcough

Besides, her pharmacist talent is fucking cool, and used progressively well as part of her character too, from having her screw Mikan over to hulking out and all that jazz. Ridiculous? Yeah, but so are Tengan and Izayoi's ninja blades. Besides, at least it's not being good at everything with zero repercussions. coughchishitcough

Another thing I don't get is that if Seiko is considered a pet, then by that logic wouldn't that mean Mikan is one too? She is a weepy bully victim who's trying too hard to be precious as well, add corporate fanservice and and extra couple of hours of screentime over most DR2 characters in Despair arc and it honestly seems like Kodaka cuddles her too much. Mind you I don't even consider Mikan a pet, it's just an observation.

Probably one of the most tragic characters in DR3 and my favorite overall in DR3. I love her design and voice, and her transformation is incredibly cool looking.

I think her relationship with Ruruka could have been better, but it seems as if both have different definitions on friendship. Seiko wanted to just have comfort from someone, but Ruruka more wanted to have someone she could use but still stay friends with. I believe at first Ruruka didn't ask for much, but it got worse over time with the demands getting more and more strenuous for Seiko. Then of course Nagito comes through and messes up the whole situation, leaving Ruruka and Seiko very sour towards each other.

Seiko overall is very much a shy person that just wanted company from others. She's had a lot of bad stuff happen to her and I think she had the saddest death in DR3. She reminds me a lot of The Woobie and I'll be honest I'm a sucker for that trope.

Honestly, she's meh to me. Yeah, I like her backstory a lot and think her grudge is interesting, but she didn't really do much in the present day story. All she contributes to future arc is an action sequence and a convenient way to save Kirigiri, and then she kind of just dies. Did anyone aside from Ruruka and I guess Izayoi even care?

Honestly she's one of my favorite designs in DR3 next to Izayoi and Great Gozu. I liked her, but felt like she had a lot of potential that was wasted in the end.

Despite being one of the precious few with any kind of backstory, I'm kind of surprised how flat she ended up being. I do wish her conflict with Ruruka was better conveyed in some respects, because all it does is make Ruruka look completely self-centered and unreasonable (which, she is, but no one really gets why) and Seiko as this borderline creator's pet. I wouldn't say she crosses the line like Makoto does, but she does skirt it a bit. I think it's pretty clear the intent was to show their slowly degrading relationship as a lot more gray than what we were directly shown, and how both parties contributed to the toxicity in some way. And weeeeee didn't get that.

Even Seiko individually is kind of boring. We know that she has a bit of a complex over not being able to save or help people and creatures, or at least not as many as she would like. But it's never really elaborated on or gone into any sort of detail, and it doesn't really play into her wanting to be friends with Ruruka at all, that's something completely different. She just...has a complex. And she isn't able to react to Kyoko being saved by her, what with her being dead and all. She has a lot of traits that aren't really developed as much as they should be.

I do think it's pretty hard to believe that, given all that we see her able to make, she wasn't able to create some kind of medicine that would allow her to consume sweets. Oh sure, you can invent this crazy super drug that can turn a dog into a Kaiju, but eating sugar is still somehow impossible.

Honestly, that detail was never really necessary to begin with? Why would the writers make up some vague medical reason for why she can't consume sweets and candy and the like, when there's another perfectly valid reason: Seiko wears braces. All that this supposed condition of Seiko's does is undermine any possible degree of nuance you can get out of their relationship, resulting in 90% of the viewers taking her side with absolutely no question.

What I'm most curious about is what friendship she had with Izayoi, if any. We don't even get a hint of what their relationship was like. I do like to think Izayoi was always secretly pretty distrustful of Seiko and hostile towards her, but never acted on it because she was still Ruruka's friend. Which is why when Ruruka's practical exam thing starts to go wrong, he almost immediately accuses Seiko of sabotage, without question. Which of course, leads Ruruka to believe the same thing (a lot of people miss this detail for some reason).

That would sound interesting, but again, we have so little indication of anything.

I can accept that the two of them don't get the chance to repair their relationship, but Seiko's death is almost as pointless as Ruruka's was. We don't even see Ruruka's reaction to her corpse. And I'm pretty sure she had to have seen it at some point, where else would she get the knife she used to stab Izayoi's corpse? She only dies to be used as evidence for when the time to reveal the answer comes.

I also think people like to forget that Seiko was, uh, pretty quick to jump to the idea of murdering Ruruka based on the belief that she was the traitor when there was basically no evidence for it, and that anything she and Izayoi did in turn was just retaliation.

She was one of the few characters in future arc that was actually explored and (kinda) complete. Her insecurities and reliance on Ruruka feel much more understandable than Ruruka's ones. Being so insecure about herself all this time meant that she wanted to latch into anyone willing to call her a friend. It's a shame that it had to be with Ruruka. The entire conflict between them is one of the dumbest things ever written though, Ruruka being horrible to her just because Seiko refused to eat sweets at would kill her is absurd. She was also one only characters that I felt something for when they died in the future arc (I also felt sad about Kyoko until I got annoyed about how unreasonable her code was.)

Words can barely give much of description to this very much underdeveloped pharmacist. Her designs and concepts are rather enigmatic and for the most part had the potential to be expanded upon in future and despair arcs alike, but she was a much rushed ex machina leaving an unsatisfied feeling of pitty. At the least, we know enough about her to try and paint a better picture of the sickly medicine woman, and her desire for helping others.

Why do people like this girl so much? Mitarai will always be my fav D3 character.

Seiko is one of the people I'm fairly sure got changed during the span of the show. Also, given how tied up her and Ruruka's stories are, there's going to be a fair amount of candy girl in here too.

Early on... Well, for the first episode of Future arc, it seems like she's going to be a cold girl, perhaps even bitter given how she reacts when Naegi's interrogation comes up ("I should've brought some truth serum" indeed). The way she talks about "cutting out the rotting part" almost seems like it could've been a dig at Ruruka and the separation between them that was later revealed. The flashback makes it clear that she's got a lot of good reason to be pissed, and her attempts to kill Ruruka seem like they could easily be a continuation of that.

Even if Ruruka wanted to make amends in Future arc, it would be perfectly understandable if Seiko refused. After all, she took advantage of her for years and when Seiko needed a friend most, Ruruka turned on her. It's a long shot, but Seiko could even be the reason Ruruka managed to get into Hope's peak in the first place (depending on how long she was drugging her candy). Plus, by all rights it seems like Seiko had moved on with her life, getting new friends and a solid position in Future Foundation, while Ruruka seemed like she was only hanging out with Izayoi. Whether they wanted to play it up as Ruruka still being hung up on it and Seiko wanting to just cut ties or Seiko holding a grudge and Ruruka trying to make amends, it would've added some ambiguity to the crux of their conflict in Future arc.

Ruruka's absolute deafness to Seiko's needs could've been more ambiguous as well if Seiko never exactly made it clear that she had medical reasons not to eat her candy, or if it was even suggested that Seiko did actually want something in return for her favors but never had the nerve to ask.

But her dialogue doesn't reflect any of that. For some reason she's actually a precious cinnamon roll with insecurities that big mean Ruruka takes advantage of. And for some reason she thinks that claiming to be her friend is compensation enough for all her time and effort with no actual payback. As a result, Seiko feels a bit flat, just a nice girl who wants to help people and gets upset that she can't save everyone. Like I said in Ruruka's analysis, having a grayer conflict between them would make both their characters much more interesting.

Then there's Izayoi. He and Seiko just never really interact except when they fight in Future arc. Given how they're adjacent to each other for all the time Ruruka and Seiko interact it seems very apparent. Whether they were ever on good terms wasn't even clear. Personally, I'm just going to assume they were supposed to be rivals for Ruruka's affections and that all got cut for time so they could have more Nagito hijinks.

And there's Munakata, the person Seiko joined up with when she got kicked out of Hope's peak. We never really get anything between Seiko and him, which is strange. It's even more glaring since it's a plot point, Ruruka demands Seiko betray him, and Seiko refuses. We could've had much more, maybe even a few short snippets of Munakata, Chisa, and Juzo being much better friends than Ruruka and Izayoi ever were.

Anyway, enough about what we DON'T have, let's talk about what we do: Much like Mitarai, her talent is basically used as a plot element rather than a fleshed out part of her personage. It's unfortunate, especially since her talent (much like Gekkogahara's) should be one of the most important ones in existence with all the craziness in the Danganverse, but better than having her talent ignored entirely like Bandai or Munakata. Despite the fact that I just wrote... Five paragraphs complaining about how she's portrayed, I don't hate her character. I like her design and her adorable wiggly hair is... well, adorable. The bits we see of her do appeal to me, with her obvious frustration and resistance to Ruruka's demands in future arc proving that she's not some minion that lives to serve.

She also clearly does care about Munakata, given how she basically spits in Ruruka's face when she demands that Seiko turn on him. And as I've made it clear, she has a lot of reason to resent Ruruka, so the fact that it seems like she's willing to forgive if candy girl is willing to be reasonable is incredibly kind of her. Plus, she holds her own against the ultimate ninja blacksmith, and was seen in the intro of future arc facing off a despairified Mikan solo so she's clearly not someone to be fucked with (granted, Mikan's not exactly a combatant, but it seems like this series pushes Ultimates as being stronger than normal people even if their talent is completely unrelated to fighting). Overall, not a bad character, just so much wasted potential.

RIP squid girl, we will miss you.

Meh, I don't care much about her character. I think the reason for my indifference to her has to do with how badly handled her conflict with Ruruka was. I was really interested in their rivalry only for the writers to reveal how black and white the conflict in who you were supposed to root for. Because of this I lost my interest in Seiko since I knew that she would be portrayed as this pure angel who could do no wrong and the anime confirmed my expectations.

She has a really cool design though.

Yep. As jerkish as Ruruka was, at least there was some greyness to her. I feel bad for Seiko, and that's about it.

I'm having a hard time saying she's my least favorite from DR3 when there characters who literally had like two lines, but I do actively dislike her.

She's unreasonable and violent to an extent rivaling Juzo and nobody seems to make any note of it. She's just as bitter and prone to conclusion-jumping as Ruruka but doesn't get anywhere near the same sort of backlash. Sure she has a somewhat sympathetic backstory, but I think the same can be said for Ruruka (actually, if I want to be more specific, I would say Seiko's is more of an actual character history whereas Ruruka's is a heavily implied mental illness and deeply rooted insecurity). Obviously Ruruka did really horrible things to her, but at the end of the day Seiko is the one who chased two people down a hallway threatening to kill them (and when she was met with retaliation it was just that; obviously Ruruka had considered that Seiko was the traitor but she didn't make any moves on that theory). With all that said, Ruruka is directly responsible for the deaths of two other characters, but I don't think Seiko is admonished from all guilt just because she failed at what she set out to do.

All that in mind, I think she could have potentially been one of the most interesting characters but fell flat. Her relationship with Ruruka was toxic but they both had faults and it could have opened up possibilities for some great development, especially if she lived and Izayoi still died. Instead it was presented as almost completely one-sided and she fails to deliver that promising development to either herself or other characters.

that's actually a very interesting perspective on her

There are only two characters in DR3, Chisa and you know the other one.

[+13]Fire extinguisher-kun?

Yeah, so you already knew ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)

Smh zero respect for chair-san who tragically died in the scuffle between the old dude and the gay boxer

I don't like him. He's such a useless character

I think he had potential but got killed off too quickly, he had tengan's back and supported him for a lot of FF's existence.

Honestly...Is Seiko essential for DR3? I have see a lot of people praising her but she is very overrated tbh. She don't contribute for future's plot, besides creating the most anti-climatic way to bring back a character that was supposed to be dead. She is tragic? Her backstory is sad? maybe but that's not really surprising since we have see dozen of DR characters with similar traits like her. I think she is just a character...That is there. She doesn't appeal or shine because she is similar to many characters. Seiko is not that great as people say she is and honestly, is she really the Ultimate Pharmacist? Because I didn't know that pharmacists are able to make so much stuff like this: medicines that make dogs grow big, makes you become a mutant etc., I'm very indifferent towards her because she is a character just made for the fandom to love her without so much effort while overshadowing her flaws. Her "too pure for this world" personality makes Andou looks like a villain and while I indeed dislike Andou, I blame the writers for making Seiko the "never wrong character" where anyone who questions or are against her, is imediately a bad person.

One of the things that I hate about DR3 is how they make a character with a certain personality while doesn't give a properly explanation for why they are like that. This happens with Juzo, Andou, Izayoi, Seiko etc., We know that since she was a kid, Seiko was shy and timid but why? We just receive a "they are like this so fuck it. We won't explain." which leaves a lot of vague and unexplained stuff. One of my reasons of why I dislike Andou is because there isn't a single explanation of why she is a bitch to everyone (yeah, everyone. Not only Seiko) and for explain her insecurity and behaviors in the anime, making her with a lot of dislikeable traits. With Seiko, is not different. We see her character like..."Grow" but we don't have any properly base for that.

Would Seiko be the victim or a murderer?

Seiko was my absolute favorite character but I never really understood why she was never able to have sweets. Of course a lot of people would assume it's because she had braces and so they would get stuck in them, but in that case, wouldn't she still be able to eat some sweets? Like desserts? This was the only thing I never really understood and I'm not sure if I just missed something or they just never felt like elaborating on that fact.

I am a huge Ruruka fan, so this might be a bit too biased.

While Seiko definitely does have one of my fave designs in the series, she utterly bores me as a character. I'm not a big fan of moe, cinnamon roll characters, and Seiko fits that trope to a T. I also really dislike how she was made out to be this pure thing that was merely Ruruka's victim. Ruruka's side of the relationship was really well-written, but Seiko's? Eh, not so much.

Character Discussion #65 - Monokubs (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


After 53 seasons of Danganronpa, we were bound to get a lame gimmick like the Monokubs. Guess that means Team DR is finally running out of ideas for the show.

Here's hoping they bring their A game again for season 54.

Giving those guys what is probably the best theme in the game was a good decision. I probably wouldn't be able to tolerate them otherwise.

Still, it was annoying how they had a segment both during and after every interlude. I hate how you have a Monokubs moment and then it goes back to the trial but the game's like "nope" and it just goes right back to the Monokubs. That said it was cool how they kind of had a small arc during chapters 1-4 I guess.

My biggest problem with the Monokubs was that they interrupted executions, which are supposed to be one of the most crucial moments for the characters and story. Yet, here we are with one or the other Monokub dying each time.

Also never even enjoyed a single second of any of them. Okay, I guess... if I have to be lenient, Monodam was... fine, but most of their dialogue was grating, annoying and unnecessary. When they were finally gone, they got revived in the last trial for rebuttal showdows and arguments, only to be killed off again. Just... why were they even there?

This is my biggest pet peeve with the game. They shouldn't be taking away time on screen from the blackeneds' executions, it kinda ruined part of the emotional aspect of it for me.

It didn't detract at all for me. The Monokubs dying in the executions took like a couple seconds only. And it never affected the executions themselves. I thought it was really clever how each execution was taking out a Monokub each time, in a way that didn't cheapen the death.

It was like a little extra.

Too much of Gonta's execution was dedicated to the Monokubs. The other Monokubs at least only interrupted the end of the execution, which I wasn't bothered by and liked to see which one would die this time, but Monotaro and Monophanie ruined Gonta's execution for me.

They didn't interrupt Gonta's execution. They were a part of it. Monophanie's "pregnancy" is what killed Gonta. It's part of the story. Monokubs interrupted Gonta's execution as much as that fire truck interrupted Celeste's.

I don't like that they were a part of it. The execution is for Gonta and they could've created an amazing execution based on his talent, but they didn't. Instead of Monophanie and Monotaro dying at the end like the others, they interrupted the execution and drew the focus away from Gonta. Even if they kept Monophanie's pregnancy in the execution, they could've only featured it at the end like in the other executions and not detracted from the overall thing.

The fire truck is not a character interrupting her execution. It is an integral part that was used to give her despair for not giving her the true death she wanted.

I'd rather have that than... Whatever Mikan's execution was.

I don't know man. Looking back, I sort of like Mikan's execution now. It was stupid and bizarre, but that makes sense. She was already in despair, so there was no way for Monokuma to make it worse for her. I like the explanation of it being an intentional out of body experience.

The fact that Mikan Tsumiki, trips over her feet "I'm sorry!" Mikan, killed not one, but two people? As a player, it may not resonate fully (we're somewhat desensitized to unexpected plot twists like this), but to the other students, reality had flipped upside down. The execution perfectly symbolized what it felt like for Hajime and the others. Anything decent ran the risk of granting some form of closure.

It's stupid. Horribly horribly stupid; but it comes at the one time where that was what the narrative called for.

I don't understand how Gonta's execution isn't based on his talent. He's the Ultimate Entomologist. He got impaled by a giant insect.

It was based on his talent, but I really feel like they could've done better considering how wide entomology is. My problem is that the random wild west theme distracts me from the insects. They could've at least set it in a jungle.

...But this is getting off topic so I'll stop.

It's fine. Discussion is a great thing. I'm aware that me liking V3 probably colors my opinion a bit, vs the majority of the fans. I'm ok with that.

It's all good in the end. We like things, we don't like things. It's what makes the world go round!

i think the monokid execution is probably the worst, in terms of monokid actually physically obscuring kaede's body at the climactic moment, the long tracking shot of monokid's head rolling even as kaede had just been obliterated, etc. kirumi at least owns the most arresting image of her own execution, and the other kubs die at the beginning of the student executions. monokid fucking up kaede's execution is the only instance that's unforgiveable; the rest are merely annoying.

But Monokid is like in about 5 seconds of Kaede's execution. She's already dead when Monodam pushes him in. It's a footnote in the entire thing.

i guess we just reacted differently. i was really pulled in by the kaede execution, which i thought had really high emotional stakes, and i found the sudden cut to the monokubs just as she was about to get crushed by the piano lid really jarring and disruptive. i didn't find it a footnote at all; it really broke my immersion. different strokes for different folks though.

Indeed. Opinions and all that. It's all in the eye of the beholder.

I'm just mad that they killed my favorite kub first

They probably used Monokid to obscure that moment because showing a body getting smashed up like that would probably up the ESRB rating of the game considerably.

This is absolutely the reason. If Monokid wasn't there, we wouldn't have seen more graphic details either.

I would agree if Monokuma didn't already ruin every single execution with comic relief that didn't belong.

They were there to revitalize the series, inside the game perspective. In that canon, it's the 53rd killing game.. they need to bring something new to the table. New cute mascots were the ideas. It's kind of a commentary on that.

i don't actually take much issue with the monokubs as characters in and of themselves; they range from inoffensive to funny, with monodam being the standout. but they do a lot of bad stuff to the writing without offering much of value to compensate.

for one thing, the sheer amount of them poses complications. adding five new characters to a conversation (that may already involve up to sixteen other characters) slows the pacing down considerably. even if you consider them to fill a role similar to monomi in dr2, sort of comedic foils for monokuma, their segments take much, much longer -- not only because there are so many of them speaking, but because they're always signalled by intro/outro clips ('rise and shine, ursine!') that take a second each and intrude on the momentum of a scene. they literally stop the action cold whenever they appear. not great in a game that already has a pacing problem.

additionally, i didn't realise until replaying that the monokubs might actually be more prominent in the narrative than monokuma himself? definitely in the first few chapters (monokuma is basically absent for all of chapter three). this is kind of a shame, because monokuma is reliably one of the funnier characters in any given scene. it makes me wonder if kodaka just got a bit sick of writing the character. the monokubs are fine, and funny enough, but not really a replacement for the franchise's most iconic character.

lastly, while on paper i like the idea of the monokubs whittling down as the game progresses, the way they interrupt the executions of the students is just terrible, one of the worst narrative choices i've ever seen these games make. this is most egregious in the first execution, both because you're not expecting it and because of how it plays out. kaede's execution is uniquely affecting, the unexpected and disturbing death of a character to whom the player has formed an unprecedented attachment, and that its climactic moment is upstaged by monokid, an insubstantial non-character even by monokub standards, is just a horrific piece of artistic judgment.

tl;dr: i like them well enough as characters and they make me chuckle from time to time, but they're always in the way of something i'd rather see.

both because you're not expecting it

Maybe that's just me but from the moment I saw them I thought they'd die one by one. 6 different mascots (including Monokuma) in a death game where there are 6 chapters? Really? I also never thought they invaded too much on the executions apart from ch.4. I don't really remember Monokid taking away from Kaede's death. Monodam basically just pushes him as the wall is about to fall and that's it. I always felt him and Monosuke were more of an afterthought.

Monodam's one was definitely the best imo. Mainly because he is a much more interesting character than Korekiyo.

when i say 'you're not expecting it' i just mean that you're not expecting it at that exact second. or maybe you were, but i was engrossed enough in the kaede situation that it didn't even occur to me to wonder what monokid was up to these days.

The only monocub death that surprised me was when two cubs died in the same execution, outside of that I basically expected them to die one by one as soon as I saw them.

The Monokubs really bug me. I think Monotaro and Monodam are alright, but all of them are just major wastes of time. They might give a laugh or two, but everything about their existence is just really annoying to me, especially because this isn't the first time they've just thrown in "Monokuma-like" characters that serve next to no purpose aside from marketing. (looking at you, Kurokuma!) They're the minions, they're pretty much any side character or marketing device that exist to get attention. I don't have a problem with that in itself, but at the very least, have them do something significant.

Really think about how many words are written, how many sprites were made, how many scenes got filled up or screeched to a halt to listen to these guys make stupid jokes or non-sequitors. The series already has Monokuma theater and more than a bit of fourth wall breaking, and i'm not saying don't do any humor, but I think it's pretty annoying to just throw in random shit or go for shock value. Oh boy, Monophanie made reference to Donald Trump!? I don't care.

I know some might be thinking "but it doesn't matter because they essentially finished the game before putting in the Monokubs." If anything, that just makes them even worse to me, because when you think about the time, money, and resources it took to include the Monokub content, that could have been spent fleshing out he characters, like maybe you have some extra dialogue for the characters that die early. Maybe you use that money to make some extra filler scenes. At the very least, I found it really intrusive and annoying when a character was executed, and the post class trial conversations, easily among the most strong and emotionally gripping scenes in the games instead need to have a Monokub die and have them shouting over say Monokid when I care more about the fact that Kaede died. Don't kill what should be a serious moment for Kirumi just because you want to laugh it up over Monosuke dying.

If they served a bigger purpose beyond justifying the existence of the exisals, then maybe I could tolerate them more. If they weren't so constantly intrusive, I'd tolerate them a bit more. But the Monokubs all really annoy me as characters, not even so much for what they do, but more for what it says about the developer's priorities if they declare their game "finished" with extra resources and decide to shove these guys in.

Monomi worked well in DR 2. She had an actual dynamic with the characters. I always thought she was like a character in a cartoon for really little kids just constantly being put in the most unpleasant universe possible, and pair that with her being trapped in the middle of the future foundation and being powerless in her own world to help her students, I thought she worked well. She doesn't feel the need to engulf entire scenes, she has a justified reason for being in the game, and while I can definitely understand the slapstick getting old quickly, I thought Monomi worked as a much better character for this kind of role and I actually did feel something when she was executed.

She ended up being similar to Sakura after Sakura was outed as the traitor in that she genuinely wants to help everyone, but nobody trusts her because she withheld information from them. Monomi's works differently in that she has no free will in the matter, but wants to protect everyone but is powerless to do so. She also doesn't butt in and make dumb jokes during serious scenes and adds to them, if anything. She's just as upset when someone dies, so it feels harsh and makes it easy to overlook her when nobody trust her or realizes she's being genuine.

The Monokubs aren't just poorly handled characters to me, but they're a poor message of the developer's priorities if they devoted the time, word count, voice work, sprite work and man hours to including this in the game.

This game already has 16 main characters, several of whom die soon and won't get much screentime. There's no reason to slap in 5 more characters that ultimately add next to nothing to the experience.

Speaking as someone who likes the Monokubs for the most part, I think you've touched on something important, Kermit: the Kubs are generally interacting with each other, not the actual cast. Besides Monodam in Chapter 3 and Monotaro in Chapter 4, there's really no dynamic there at all. Thus, they and their arcs end up largely separated from everything that's going on (most of the time), which opens up the justified objections of them being "distracting" and "annoying."

I really liked the Monokubs. I loved their story arc, and I felt like they were one of the most hilarious additions to V3. Monophanie was best Monokub!

Monodam: Funny, and brings in a legitimately hilarious subplot in Ch3. He also kind of has a bit of a moral attached to his character in that good intentions don't always line up with what's the right thing to do

Monotaro: I liked his relationship with Miu that came out of nowhere in Ch4, I think it says a lot about both characters. Him joining the cast's side was unexpected but welcome. He can be funny at times too

Monophanie: Slightly worse than Monotaro. I see her get a lot of hate but she actually has legitimate character motivations in not wanting Monotaro to stray from the pack. She can be conniving and gets a funny line here and there

Monosuke: I liked his Brooklyn accent I guess

I won't even bother to talk about Monokid

Overall my ranking is Monodam >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> Monotaro > Monophanie >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> Monosuke > Monokid

I really thought I'd end up hating the Monokubs but I actually found their appearances to be pretty amusing. This was my first impression however. Whenever I rewatch parts of the game, I find myself skipping their dialogue. It takes up a surprising amount of time and it's just not important. Their biggest problem easily though is how much they take away from the emotional moments. They nearly ruin a lot of the executions, and I hate how the first thing we see after every execution is not the cast's reaction to losing someone but the Monokubs' reaction to losing someone

I actually legitimately liked Monomi. But there are simply too many Monokubs for them to be convincingly meaningful and they're not important at all

I know they relate to V3's twist in that most long-running franchises introduces characters like these to "spice things up" when they're really just annoying and take up time. But that doesn't excuse the fact that V3 is also part of a franchise that literally introduced the Monokubs for the same reason. And just because the game acknowledges doesn't make it ok

TL;DR: More amusing than I thought on my first playthrough, but the game is better off if they don't exist

Yeah, Monosuke's accent was spot on-and I've met people who speak like that (doesn't help that I live close to NYC)

Fair warning, given the meta-textual overtones of V3, I'm going to be talking both about writing in-universe and IRL, so this might get confusing. When I say "In-universe" I'm referring to team danganronpa/the killing game, ie the world/show within the game, and when I refer to things "in a meta sense" I'm referring to the real life writing of the game itself.

I think the Monokubs as a whole were an odd addition to the game. In the meta sense, I assume they were meant to add some levity in what would otherwise probably be the darkest game in the series, featuring: the highest total death count of named characters for any game in the franchise, no less than two instances of the cast openly weeping after an execution, an instance of everyone actually becoming so depressed that they didn't even want to leave their rooms, and an "overarching plot" involving the complete annihilation of all life on planet earth (in quotes since it's a lie, but for a while it was the story). Whether they succeeded at such levity... Well, your mileage may vary.

In-universe, I think that the Monokubs were put in to help the cast cope with their own situation and add justification for having some chaos in the otherwise formulaic killing game...

Early on, it almost seems like they would be intentionally messing with Monokuma, given their quips about him that border on "damned by faint praise". The second motivation was even "ruined" by their "accidental" misplacement of the videos. Given that they're machines it's probably entirely intentional that one of the only people who got their correct motivation video was the person that actually acted on it, but to the students it would just seem like bad luck. They even openly revolt against Monokuma during the 3rd chapter, pushing the students to get along and NOT murder each other, with a motivation that would ostensibly give them one of their friends back. While the students and Monomi have tried openly resisting Monokuma in the past, V3 is the first time it actually succeeds at stopping the murder-bear, if only temporarily.

The fact that one of them gets killed during each execution could give the students who lost their friends a sense that they weren't suffering alone, even in cases like Korekiyo and Kokichi where the others didn't necessarily care that they died. There's also the fact that no less than two of the five Monokubs actively try to help the students survive, Monodam trying to end the killing game peacefully and Monotaro cracking open the Neo world program to help solve the murder. That, coupled with the fact that they are introduced to the students before Monokuma leads me to believe that if the students are meant to get attached to any of the bears, it's the Monokubs they are meant to attach to.

It's also clear that while the player might be ignoring whatever the hell the Monokubs are up to, the students are not. Himiko adds her own commentary on the drama the Monokubs are playing out during... I think it was chapter 4? Maybe chapter 3? I don't really remember, but Himiko did make it clear she was paying attention to what they were on about and even getting invested in their "story". I'll also note that the incident of becoming too depressed to do anything happened after the last of the Monokubs died, which I don't think is a coincidence.

If the story is meant to be a TV show, it sort of makes the Monokubs an in-joke for the audience as well, with their personalities that are obviously inserted into their little robotic brains instead of being genuine experiences, much like the unwilling "actors" would look to the outside world. It's taken even further when they insist that the Exisals also have backstories and personalities of their own that are completely ignored.

Anyway, to get any deeper we need to talk about the individuals:

Monokid is clearly meant to be a hard rocker sterotype (and not any sort of good one). Doing drugs, playing an electric guitar, even bullying the meekest member of the group like one of those stories about a rock star whose career is in decline. The references to his "rock hard rager" probably requires no explanation to those who listen to enough music. But he clearly doesn't have much nuance to his character, he's just kind of a jerk, which works for chapter 1 when everyone's meant to be upset over Kaede's death so him being the other casualty doesn't risk drawing audience sympathies away. That might sound like they predicted Kaede would be the first killer, but they probably could've killed off the Monokubs in any order if they thought it necessary, and the first murder usually involves a likable person.

Monosuke is meant to be... I don't know, I want to say a nerd stereotype from the glasses, but he doesn't express that nearly as much as just being kind of a jerk. One of his sprites has him holding money, and he does shout out random bits of trivia, but I didn't get nearly as strong a vibe from him as from Monokid. He also sort of plays dumb, mocking and deriding Monodam after he "murdered" Monokid despite that fact that if anything he would probably be plotting to return the favor if he really wanted to stop him. His "relationship" with Monophanie is there as well, but it didn't really feel like it does much apart from give him a "player" vibe. Like I said, he didn't make much of an impression on me, so I defer to your judgement, dear reader. His death also capped off the early murders, where Kirumi died for what could be considered a noble reason, and with her went the second most unlikable Monokub, so presumably the future murders were meant to be a bit less "noble" and "tragic".

Anyway, Monodam is the fan favorite and it's easy to see why. He's been put upon by his fellow kubs, and once he's gotten rid of the two worst kubs, he takes the reins of the Kub Krew (which may or may not be something they were called at one point, but the idea of calling them Kuma's Kub Krew would obviously be a terrible idea in the US). With the Kubs, and more importantly their Exisals, he seizes control of the killing game and puts Monokuma, who has already been established as being far weaker than the Exisals, into a corner. He tries to get the students to get along, which works for a bit, but he apparently didn't count on there being a serial killer in the group. In-universe, obviously if they wrote the students' personalities then they knew Korekiyo's secret, but it helps the students to feel like the Monokubs might not be all bad. His suicide also makes Korekiyo's execution feel more bitter since he's not only sympathetic in his own right, but any chance of the killing game being stopped without drastic measures dies with him.

Monophanie is... weird. She almost seems like a plot coupon taking Monokub form, given the unexplained changes in her character through the story and bizarre abilities she's supposedly able to use. She was probably meant to be one of the more sympathetic characters between her aversion to the very concept of a killing game and the "tragic" love story that ends with her death. However, a lot of people don't like her. The vomiting thing is pretty gross, and the incestuous tones that drip from her "romances" are not only considered gross in most cultures, but could easily be seen as a mockery of Korekiyo's own backstory. Not to mention that she abuses and manipulates Monotaro for most of the 4th chapter, putting her solidly in the bad books for some people. I suppose Monophanie could be seen as a gag poking fun at the role of "chick" characters in shows with a relatively small group, but overall she ends up just being weird.

Monotaro is probably the secondary fan favorite from what I've seen. His ninja design doesn't really get used, but his forgetfulness and somewhat childlike demeanor gives him a relative innocence compared to the other kubs. He also openly helps the group, giving them vital information on the Neo world program when they would otherwise have been hung out to dry. Declaring Miu and Keebo as his parents was also kinda cute, especially since Miu seems to be kept at arm's length by the rest of the cast until they need something.

I'm not entirely sure that Monotaro's death during the 4th execution was pre-planned, it seems like it would've made more sense with Gonta being executed for Monophanie to be killed so they would still have Monotaro to kill off during the 5th chapter. In-universe it could be justified as the writers trying not to open a plot inconsistency by having Taro get away with openly disobeying and turning on Monokuma without dropping the foreshadowing of the pregnancy plot, but in the meta I'm fairly sure they didn't want to detract from Kaito's death by throwing Monotaro in there (if Kokichi had was meant to be the killer, I suspect they would've kept Monotaro for his execution rather than killing him off early). It may have distracted from Gonta's death a bit, but given that he was borderline innocent of his crime a little distraction may have been the idea in-universe, drawing attention away from how it was almost unfair to punish him.

Then in the last chapter they come back and get executed again with a lot less drama. It might be noteworthy that toward the end they've basically accepted that Monokuma's going to destroy them, and that their only lifeline is in keeping the argument going even if they barely have an argument to stand on, but I don't know what conclusion to draw from it. Maybe that the students are kinda hypocrites for thinking so little of the Monokubs' deaths despite their obvious fear of being destroyed, then expecting the audience to sympathize with them and their entirely false personalities? I don't know, that sounds sorta plausible so I'll go with that.

So, uh... That's the monokubs. While they may be seen as "Diet Monokumas" that are just kind of annoying by some, I do believe they had a real purpose in the narrative, both in-universe and in the meta of the game.

Monotaro : Endearingly incompetent and believable, aside from the weird dynamic with Monophanie in Chapter 4, was pretty cool when he got his time to shine.
Monokid : Was actually my favorite pre-release cuz I loved the whole rock attitude and the HELL YEAH got me pumped. Ends up being a disgusting shit talking about having boners on vomit or whatever.
Monosuke : A terrible shame the Kansai clichés never got localized properly. He was still okay during his time around, but I wanted more.
Monofunny : Monounfunny. Stop barfing all the time please.
Monodam : Best mascot.
All in all, I didn't mind them at all and I enjoyed their presence, I don't mind wordplay, plus Yamadera Koichi being in DR is always a huge bonus here. He made for a great performance. Something I feel that doesn't get discussed much is that while their role is quite a bit similar to how Monomi was handled, I liked more the bits of subplot with them, even if, unlike Monomi, they don't amount to much to the storyline, so they were lacking on that point. Recall the morning and evening announcements in the previous games ? Y'know, those things you skipped all the times on the previous games ? Who actually skipped those in V3, seriously ? Those were actually the parts maybe I liked the most of them. Along with the parallels made like in Chapter 3 with Angie/Student Council and Monodam VS Monokuma, forming his own school, plus Monotaro getting his time to shine, those made for funny moments.

The thing is maybe how they're paced actually. I mean, the thing is that I barely felt that the Monokubs were five seperate characters, but more like one whole character with different gimmicks each, as they just all speak out of turn like that (if you are familiar with Detective Conan, I feel it's kinda like the Detective Boys in a way, who are just here because they include Haibara who is a main character, but the three others are mostly I feel there with their gimmicks - Genta wanting to eat eels, Mitsuhiko being sometimes the smartass and Ayumi being so kawaii, and in all it's just so that they feel like a group of kids), here they just have a comment each and are just here because they include Monokuma who is the mascot. I would've prefered that they would make them more than just a cover for the Mastermind. Have them, dunno, team up with some classmates at some point based on common interests (tho not with them being pals), don't maybe have some of their appearances feel forced perhaps (the prologue is the worst at this when you have the Monokubs just popping up in almost every new room you're entering).

All-together, considering how the majority of the V3 cast gets the end of the stick waaay too much, if there was some way to make some space and have more time for some characters who are going to be offed at some point, would it be better to maybe, scrap the Monokubs and have the other students doing comedy while having screentime ? Who knows.

Overall I did enjoy them, but if it was done without, you won't hear me complain.

You know what? I actually liked every single kub. They were entertaining, I enjoyed their conversations, and I felt bad for them. Monokid was my favorite.

I really enjoyed the segment in chapter 6 when they came back and were forced to participate in the trials or die. It made for really good parallels to the cast, where they're artifical creations forced into a hopeless situation too, slowly getting killed off at the whims of creators who have no plans on sparing them no matter how well they perform.

That being said, while I don't mind them interrupting things most of the time, I hate how they were used in the executions. Monokid and Monosuke were the worst offenders here, but every single one of them distracted from the action and it was irritating as heck. I prefer the focus purely on the blackened, since it's their final farewell.

[S]Welcome to the start of the V3 discussions! I've decided they'll be posted Monday 12 AM PST each week, just like they were during the DR3 discussions but cutting out the Thursday posts, making only one discussion a week.

As for the Monokubs, I did end up picking Monotaro before V3 came out as my flair, and only due to the fact he was a ninja bear. You can't deny a ninja bear when given the option!

12 am in what time zone

[S]PST!

Uh, I just noticed this, but the listing for the order of the V3 characters has two Kokichis in it. 8 is Ouma, and 11 is Kokichi.

Is one of them supposed to be Kaito? Because that's the only one who's missing.

[S]8 is Kaito! Someone notified me of this mistake earlier and I have it fixed for the list shown here, but for the Masterlist it seems I'm still using the old list. My bad, thanks for pointing that out and I'll update it now!

I think I would have appreciated their role in the story more if they had been the main evidence V3 was a show that had long ago jumped the shark, but when you look at them upon replay they seem like they're just hitting you over the head with it. The plot twist got used to hand wave so many plot holes and boring story choices that it made the monokubs not only irrelevant but a frustrating reminder of why everything is such a mess. I think they're a symbol of the story going way overboard to hint at the ending in ways that maybe it didn't need to.

Edit: spelling and grammar

Their kind of tacked on mascot characters.........But that's ironically kinda the point once it's revealed that it's all part of a show that's ran on far too long.

I liked them until I realised that they were going to hijack the executions. The fifth one is my favourite mainly because there are no kubs ruining the moment with their shenanigans.

Monokid is best Monokub. Don't @ me. HELL YEAH!

Monodam and Monosuke are funny too.

Monotaro is okay

Monophanie is garbage

I was pretty mad that they killed off my favorite kub, then my second favorite, then my third favorite, then left me with the two I was most annoyed by.

Also they shouldn't have pacifiers. I liked their designs, but the pacifiers were weird since they talk and act like adults and they'd just look better without them.

Clearly Monodam and Monosuke were the best ones. Outside of that, I didn't really like the other three as much, but most especially Monophanie. Too much throwing up and not enough conviction. So she was just boring all the way. But all five as a whole were ok. I just wish that theme song didn't play every time they pop up. It breaks the immersion sometimes.

Were they the best characters? Not even close. Could they be enjoyable as a whole? Rarely, they were really forced and could've been substituted with something better in an already long game that doesn't even need a comedy routine and it could just get bothersome. Some on there own are fine though, best to worst here we go:

Monodam: Everyone can agree he's the best one, died at about the right time before getting too boring and causing panic with the others before suddenly commiting suicide.

Monosuke: I remember nothing outside of his Brooklyn accent and his "Fuck the Patriots" line so hes automatically second for me, FUCK THE PATRIOTS!

Monotaro: He actually had some funny moments here and there such as thinking Miu and Kiibo were his parents. Outside of that....egh, overall he's just middle of the road.

Monokid: The rock one who everyone dogpiles on as the worst, but at least he died first so he has that going for him.

Monophanie: What the serious actual fuck did she do to anything besides rainbow barf and a forced "romance" with Monotaro? Like seriously she was in so long and all I remember her for is rainbow barf and for something involving someone else, that's how pointless she is and why she's my worst one because she's just "the girl" and nothing more.

Yeah, I honestly love the Monokubs. They were colorful, funny enough, and a cute idea. I feel as though even at worst they're still harmless, and that if people don't like being interrupted by zany bears Danganronpa probably isn't the game for them.

Monosuke is especially my favorite—I love made man motifs and Brian Beacock makes him really funny.

I loved that they participated in the last trial too—giving you someone to argue with to keep the Master hidden. I just wish we got to scrum debate them.

Nanokuma is best Monokub.

Bad. Next.
Nah jk, but they do feel pointless, gets better with V3-6 but like the "she's just an AI, she can be perfect/weird/not make sense in context" defense for Chiaki, it's pretty weak. Except here it works better, and Monodam does save them by introducing an overarching miniplot about them, even if it's inconsequential.
Also where was the scrum debate against them in V3-6?There's 5 of them...there's 5 survivors...so...????

"You talkin' about my butthole?"

I think a lot of people miss the point of the Monokubs. They exist for you to think they're worthless. The joke of their existence is that "Team DR is running out of ideas", which is good, but they aren't there to be a joke. They exist to make you go "UUUUGHHHHHH" and that's the role they filled and it was damn good.

Monodam>Monotaro>Monosuke>Monokid>Monophanie. I don't think Monophanie existed for more than horrible pregnancy jokes. I liked the idea of Monokid but the execution was a bit off-putting to say the least, which is a damn shame. I didn't like or hate Monosuke. He's there. I did enjoy Monotaro even though he was kind of an idiot and the game probably would've been better off without him. Monodam having a whole plan to overthrow Monokuma and kill off all the Monokubs in the process made him the most interesting, because the other kubs were trying to be in on all the jokes while Monodam's intentions matched the environment. It feels like Monodam fits in the universe and everyone else is just along for the ride.

I'm gonna be honest I think the monokubs are the worst characters in the series. As to why it's fairly simple it boils down to 2 major reasons, them doing basically nothing monokuma couldn't have done and taking away screentime from characters that desperately needed more. Oh and them taking up screentime in executions was a terrible idea. I just think that V3 was a bettter game without them there and it's very clear that they were added late into development and overall serve 0 purpose.

They also caused me the actually scream "NOOOO" when they reappeared in chapter 5.

they reappeared at the end of Chapter 5 actually =b

it was so painful it caused my memories to get muddled.

Ah, the Monokubs, characters created solely for the point of merchandising, while not contributing anything to the game. What an excellent commentary on sequels in game, while totally not doing exactly the same thing itself, and not at all making the attempt look stupid and hypocritical. Amazing!

Putting aside the endless layers of meta smothering V3, I'm pretty apathetic on the Monokubs as a whole. Monotaro never gave me any strong feelings until his amnesia struck, which was when he wasa bit endearing. Monophanie was the same, and I'd be neutral if it weren't for the fourth execution and the lack of a reference to Monomi (come on, NO comparisons at all? Of all of the call backs, how did they miss that?!). Monokid was kind of amusing with his energy, but he supports my belief that the series has gotten more vulgar as it goes on, but he's the first to go, so it's not a problem (unlike a certain OTHER character who embodies this annoyance I have). Monosuke was sort of cool, and I loved his accent and commentary on football, but aside from letting details slip during the 2nd trial, there wasn't much he did. That leaves Monodam, the only Monokub to really do anything of value. I enjoyed his usurping of control from Monokuma, and wish it were taken further, but I'll avoid my AU ideas and just say that he was alright. It would have been nice if it tied in more with Angie's shenanigans, but that's a general Ch. 3 issue that I'll talk about with each character as it's relevant. Aside from that, they can really pointlessly pad things out, and make certain segments drag on with their comedy routines.

On the executions themselves, they feel shoehorned into them, being distracting at best, and obnoxious at worst, specifically with the fourth execution for the latter. Their use during chapter six felt kind of lame too. I really felt bad for how they were used in the last trial, but it just adds to the overall pointlessness of the Monokubs since they have no clue what's going on, can barely argue because of the lack of info, and are killed off in the beginning and never mentioned again.

Also, I'm disappointed that there wasn't and Scrum Debate with the Monokubs against the remaining students. I know I just said that they were clueless, but there's no reason Monokuma couldn't have filled them in beforehand on what happened, and it would have been a great way to compensate for the dwindling students. Still, extra time would have to be spent making more sprites, but it would have made a nice excuse for one last Scrum Debate.

Overall, I think they could have been cut entirely from the game. If they were going to play a meaningful, enjoyable part in the Killing Game, there would probably need to be a big overhaul in writing. For what they are now... I'm sure I can enjoy them to varying extents, but I don't think they're all that meaningful.

It would have been nice if it tied in more with Angie's shenanigans

I think the reasoning was that the stories were parallel to each other. Both Monodam and Angie wanted to keep peace by creating a dictatorship (commentary on socialism? k). The difference is that Monodam is likeable while Angie is a bitch. imo they work fine separate but I kinda wish both of them went on for a bit longer, but then again this game HAD to have 6 chapters and they wouldn't be able to make the events of ch. 4 and 5 happen if Monodam and/or Angie were running the show.

so we just gonna gloss over Monophanie birthing a massive fucking insect out of god-knows-where after having sexual intercourse with her brother?? okay.

Eh, stranger things have happened in the series.

[+13]Is no one going to point out that their "notable roles" are "RISE AND SHINE URSINE"?

Was indifferent to them at first, but when Monodam started killing them off one at a time I was intrigued. I thought maybe he'd side with us in the end and get us out somehow. But instead they all die, get revived with no memories then die again.

Waste of time.

I love Monotaro, but I don't really care about the other ones. I don't understand why Monodam's such a fan favorite, and honestly I had high hopes for him, but in the end the Monokubs amounted to nothing. Their scenes in Trial 6 made the trial a little more bear-able.

I'm kind of disappointed Monosuke died so soon. The main reason I liked the Monokubs early on is because they had a straight man keeping them on track whenever one of the others lost focus. He really did seem to be keeping them semi-organized until his own impatience kicked in during Chapter 2, which almost seems just forced in so Monodam would have a reason to kill him like Monokid. The entire prologue and first chapter he was just trying to make sure they do their job right, but because Monodam had a revolution going into Chapter 3 (which went nowhere anyway because Monokuma came back, Monodam died within the same chapter, and the two remaining Monokids either forget or don't care about the whole "ruling the school" thing), Monosuke had to die. Monodam and Monokuma kind of take the role of straight man to the Monokubs after Monosuke's death, but Monodam also dies soon after he's in charge, and Monokuma barely interacts with any Monokub directly after Chapter 3, meaning most of the Monokub scenes after Monosuke and Monodam are out of the picture are just Monotaro and Monophanie's weird as hell incest "plotline," that seemed detatched from literally everything and I just found out of place and distracting. The students don't even do much with them other than the usual "leave us alone, antagonist" and Monotaro's bit with Miu and Keebo, which was shortlived and ruined by Monophanie pulling him back into the incest bit. Even when Monosuke and Monodam come back in the final trial, all five Monokubs have even less character than before, meaning the ones I liked were boring and the ones I disliked (especially Monokid) were downright forgettable. These guys could've worked, but without someone to bounce their shenanigans off of and bring some common sense, they just get in the way of the actual enjoyment.

At least I like their designs, I guess. I'd buy a Monotaro plush.

Rise and Shine Ursine as summarised by Nagito

I know it's a whole part of the localisation of his personality, but I had no clue what this fucking meant at all because I don't follow sportsball events.
Honestly one of my favourite voiced lines

While I liked the Monodam revolt, there was no proper KumaKub. They were too spread out and hijacking the executions honestly puts me off the executions because it's an execution for the blackened, not for the blackened and whoever Monodam wants to kill off or the incestuous giant mantis baby. I would settle for them if they had a proper leader and were unified with minor conflicts, but not for how they were. Especially with the exploding gimmick in the last trial

Too much what the fuck

So this seems like a good place to ask but what is up with their theme? Does it have anything to do with them at all? I'm only at the beginning of Chapter 3 but I just dont get it. Its a pretty cool theme too, it just seems so out of place.

You mean the lyrics? They don't mean anything. By the way, these character threads have endgame spoilers so I'd suggest waiting until you finish the game before reading them.

I don't mind the characters them self my problem is is that they are pointless. They really don't have any reason to be in the game I think and just kinda waste screen time. Lastly I know Danganronpa gets very silly but them making the executions less serious really bugged me.

The only one I liked was Monodam because he killed Monokid and Monosuke. Monosuke and Monotaro were tolerable, Monophanie was annoying, and Monokid was the singular worst character in Danganronpa. I don't want to listen to a tiny mechanical bear child repeatedly yelling about boners.

I did kind of like the way they progressively died as the chapters progressed. Partially from relief over never having to see them again, but also it was kind of interesting. Their subplot in a general sense was kind of entertaining. Until the end where suddenly they're all back and then die immediately.

They were a mistake and I get PTSD every time I hear their theme song.

The only one I like is Monodam, because he killed two of them off.

[🍰]Did anyone else notice that the Monokubs mimicked other Danganronpa characters? Monatoro=Gundham in looks, Monokid= Ibuki in personality, Monosuke=Byakuya in personality, Monaphone= Usami, and Monodam= Mikan kind of.

They were one of the few things I liked about V3, I wish they actually served a purpose or some role in the plot though. Because they ended up being pointless, I imagine if I were to replay the game I wouldn't like them as much. Monotaro is the best

I find them to be completely and utterly useless. So glad they were all killed off, all they did for me was cause headache after headache.

The only monokub that doesn't grind my gears is the 6th, but that's because it's actually relevant to the plot.

I hate the 6th monokub the most.

They're alright. They did annoy me a few times when they'd randomly interrupt scenes that really shouldn't be interrupted, but they had some hella nice jokes.

My fave is Monosuke, mostly because of the accent, though. He doesn't have any super notable jokes, but I remember him making me chuckle a few times.

Monodam is also great, and I love him for actually being somewhat of a good character. Hell, he was more well written than some of the actual cast members.

Monophanie had some amazing jokes, especially how she's perfectly fine with death if it isn't gory, but the incest thing in Chapter 4 really rubbed me the wrong way...

Speaking of, I dunno how to feel about Monotaro. He did have some funny jokes in Ch4 regarding his amnesia, but most of the time he was just meh. His best moment, though, is calling Iruma mommy. She almost got some development there....damn you, Kodaka.

Monokid is hella cool. I know people dislike him, but honestly? He was the funniest one, even though that was basically his only trait.

They're honestly a mixed bag for me. Monodam's of course the best one (and I'd rank him above quite a few of the actual important characters). Monotaro's the closest one to second favorite. I don't know how to feel about Monosuke because I don't really have a clue about his personality. Monokid and Monophanie are just gross trash bears.

Monotaro and monodam are the only good ones

What a waste of an awesome song. Fuck the Monokubs.

Monokid- Boring, annoying waste of Patrick Seitz (A crime that should be considered punishable by death)

Monosuke- Literally who?

Monodam/Monotaro- Had potential, but nothing came from it. Because God forbid we give depth that pays off.

Monophanie- When she wasn't boring, she was annoying as fuck.

Also, not having a Scrum Debate with them during 3-6 when it would've justified their survival and the fact that Scrum Debates are fucking awesome. That being said, they do lead to my favorite Shuichi moment when they start whining about getting blown up and beg for him to help them and he just shuts them down. Fucking awesome.

"Monokuma and the Mastermind are the bad guys, here. You don't want to die? Do you have any idea how many of my friends were sacrificed?"

HE

Eh i really only ending up liking Monotaro and Monodam

I think this game would've benefited better for having two cubs instead of five. I would've liked it better if there was a dynamic with Shiro and Kurokuma from UDG. A more soft kind hearted personality and a harsh sharp tongue personality.

Like a lot of people (from what I can tell at least), I only like Monodam and Monotaro. I found them to be pretty annoying for the most part (especially in the the Chapter 1, 2 and 4 executions, especially chapter 4), with some admittedly really funny moments.

However, my biggest disappointment with the Monokubs is the fact that despite being brought back in chapter 6, we don't have a debate scrum with them. That would of actually been pretty cool, but nope, as soon as Monokid was destroyed, so were my hopes of that happening.

I thought they were funny but they ruined the executions, especially Gonta's

That Chapter 4 storyline tho... I loved the monokubs! I can see how they would ruin the executions for some people, but other than in the 2nd chapter, at least they don't make the deaths humorous

I love Monophanie and Monodam. They are the funniest throughout the game. The others i found to be really annoying. Most people find them unnecessary but i found they were neccessary to add comic relief cknsidering how gruesome and sad this game was.

Man I loved Monodam but it didn't feel right laughing during every execution

I liked Monotaro just because he was cute. And Monodam because of his personality. I didn't really care for the other three though.

I still remember someone on this sub made a comment on Monophanie that I thought was hilarious: "Disgusting incest vomit abomination."

As a whole, I really liked the Monokubs. I thought I'd hate them when I first saw them, but all of them had their moments and entertained me, and they were FAR better than Monomi was in SDR2. It is unfortunate that they intruded on the executions, but that's a minor gripe from me since I still thought the executions were much better than nearly all of them in the previous game.

Monotaro was my favorite, but I don't dislike any of them. Monophanie is the most boring, but at least she had her moments with Monotaro that amused me. The portion of the game where Monodam took over Monokuma's role was cool. I dunno, I guess I don't get why they are so unpopular, especially when Monomi was fairly annoying and her schtick with Monukuma was incredibly grating and repetitive but she doesn't seem to get as much dislike.

In fact, they are the most desperate attempt to renovate the saga. It was the 53'rd season of danganronpa, they need to think of anything.

But, i really think that they have a kind of meaning with the deaths of all the students. I'll leave a theory here...

Monokid was the symbol of the trust and cheer up his team. Just like what Kaede was trying to do. But that plan was ruined by the mastermind, and in the same case, Monodam takes the role of the fake mastermind, killing him. And in the next chapter, Monodam takes control of everyone by harassing them, and acting cool. Monosuke, with another thinking, consider him like a criminal for kill Monokid. He intend to revocate Monodam of the lead. But he was tricked by him and his lack of vision. And now, remember... Monodam takes the role of the Fake Mastermind in the chapter 1 and 2, and Monosuke was the greed. Just like the Kirumi's greed to survive for her nation.

In the Chapter 3, he took the role of a leader that wants everyone to get along (Words of Monodam) but in ways that were questionable. He end up committing suicide for no accomplish that goal. Just like Angie's failure to make everyone forget the outside world and make a heaven in this place.

In the Chapter 4, Monotaro and Monophanie were in love but they can't be happy for Monotaro's lack of memory. And we see that the his real personality, it's the most hateful and harassing of all but he uncovers that with the excuse of the forget or maybe he really forget. In the other hand, Monophanie is the help of his lack of memory, and she always wants to be there for him despite his abuse. In Gonta's execution, he was seeing her with fear for the pretended birth of his child. But were destroyed by Monokuma's trap that was in Monophanie in the very beginning (Why do you think she had so many stomach problems?) This is the symbol of the beauty and innocence fading away with the last deaths... of Gonta and Miu. Because Gonta was innocence in his mind at the very at least, and Miu was beauty but was egoist and try to murder Kokichi for leave her prison

And the revival of all of them is the fake revival of all those feelings but their all gone. Forever with the memories of the persons that died with those feelings and just like the Monokubs... that drag those feelings -End of quote.

Character Discussion #66 - K1-B0 (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Keebo sticks out as one of the highlights of V3 to me. I find his presence and technology fascinating. We've had very human-like AIs in the previous games, such as Alter Ego Chihiro, AI Chiaki and AI Junko. Keebo doesn't seem to be based on someone (or could be, who knows) but has very humane responses, even more so than the cast.

I love the irony that in a group of 16 students, the most 'human like' person is actually a robot, which is why him being constantly picked on felt out of place. As much as Keebo sometimes overreacts about robophobia, I can understand the students genuinely being curious about his technology and AI but holy heck, the way they treat him by calling him a 'thing' and throwing him at the water tank, was a bit too much. I don't think he needed to be treated special and I'm sure Keebo wouldn't want that either but to disregard him continually was a beaten joke I was never fond of.

Keebo's technology makes me question a few things. He seems to have been made with immense love and an experienced professor culminating all his research into him is a story I can buy since Keebo isn't particularly a useful robot. He's not made with a central function in mind and just has a very complex human-like AI. If we're going by the ideas of robotics presented by Isaac Asimov (which seems to be what they take off from considering the Three Laws that are mentioned by Rantaro and Keebo), then Keebo possibly has a positronic brain heavy on psychological permutations than any specialised functions.

In Asimov's stories, robots which are made for specific tasks have a lot of complex data in regards to it, but end up having no emotions or personality. Given how Keebo is made, he seems to have an adaptable AI which learns and progresses by itself and most likely, collects data of other humans responses for reference. In his FTEs with Kaede, she makes a joke about Roombas and he is visibly offended but doesn't understand the joke part of it exclaiming that human humour is odd. Then in the next one he makes a joke himself, possibly having gauged that her personality is such that joking around with her would result in a pleasant conversation.

In line with his actions during the endgame, I have some speculation. His experience with Dr. Idabashi mentions that his programming once went rogue enough to violate the First Law of Robotics and he ended up injuring the professor. Since then, the damage parameters of his technology were controlled. It's possible that when Keebo was 'reborn', the professor felt his responses reached the epitome of how he wanted to design his AI and expected him to not harm anyone or anything. Therefore, it's also possible that he was programmed with the infamous Zeroth Law. Considering it precedes the First Law and so, can be bypassed, maybe Keebo's endgame actions were for the 'greater good' of the whole humanity as Keebo himself perceives it. He mentions that destroying an academy seeped in despair is what he calls 'hope' and my idea is that this is due to his programming following the Zeroth Law without any interference from his 'inner voice'.

As an end note, in simple words, Keebo makes me very happy. His personality, design, reactions, simply everything about him brings me immense joy and I'm glad he was in V3 because without him, I wouldn't have enjoyed the game as much as I did. Rust in pieces my hopes of him surviving though.

I also find it amusing how robots in death games are often the most human. A great example is a certain someone in Zero Time Dilemma.

I just want to argue that the robot you're talking about, while still a fine character, isn't even the best robot in the Zero Escape series.

...oh, I forgot about the other one. i think i might have purposely blocked that one's story out of my memory for good reason 😭

Isaac Asimov

Isaac Asimov aka The Good Doctor

Well first off: me and Keebo share the same birthday, so I automatically like him.

Anyways though, I like Keebo's character a lot, but I can't say I was all that satisfied with how he was used in the story. I like his role in Chapter 6, and I will get into that soon, but for the first five chapters, Keebo didn't do much of note. For the first five chapters, Keebo's entire character consists of being mocked by the rest of the cast and being Miu's guinea pig. Granted, these two aspects to his character did give me some funny moments from Keebo, especially when it has something to do with Kokichi since he's a comedy goldmine, but it becomes glaringly obvious how little Keebo provides to the main story by the time Chapter 5 rolls in. I normally see people complain about how insignificant Tsumugi is as a character, but Keebo is not too far off. I can't even say he was all that helpful to the trials since most of his inventions are thanks to Miu.

Keebo finally starts to become interesting in Chapter 6 with the audience reveal. I liked how Keebo's thoughts and actions were controlled by the outside world and tied nicely into the original title for the game: Danganronpa V3 Everyone's New Semester of Killing. I also appreciated the foreshadowing throughout the story and gave me a new perspective on multiple scenes, most notably the fact that Keebo analyzed Miu's waste which is hilarious in hindsight and one of the few good instances of toilet humor. However, I wish they the writers did more with the Ultimate Hope twist. It was cool how Keebo's final showdown with Tsumugi paralleled with Makoto's showdown with Junko, but the rest of that twist felt a little shallow and disappointing. Disappointing in that Shuichi immediately hijacks the scene to go on his speech about how Hope will lead to despair and proving Keebo wrong about his ideology. I feel that the writers could have utilized the idea more instead of simply presenting the creativity of the idea.

I don't like the fact that the writers killed off Keebo at the last second of the game. His death felt really unsatisfying and kind of tacked on for the sake of shock value. I guess what I find most disappointing about this writing choice is that it severely limits the potential of us getting to find out what his past self as a normal robot was like and his relationship with Idabashi or whoever created him in the real world. His background and his role in Chapter 6 would have made for an very interesting topic to delve into and compare.

Looking back on Keebo's character in the main story: I found him to be a pretty likable character that was easy to root for. I enjoyed his role in Chapter 6, but I think the writers could have done more with his character for most of the game besides his robophobia trait.

What elevates Keebo from a solid character to a character that I really enjoy are his FTE's which I find to be among the strongest in the game due to how close it hits home for me. To summarize Keebo's free times: Keebo wants to launch a robot business to make himself not feel ordinary compared to others. This includes Keebo wanting to become a pop idol(which fails because Keebo's singing is awful enough to literally make Shuichi barf) and child caregiving(which also fails because Keebo is too uncomfortable with handling clothes and is too weak to carry someone else). In his final free time event: Keebo wants Shuichi to help think up ideas on a fictional backstory to make Keebo seem more interesting to others which reveals Keebo's insecurity in wanting others to accept him. Shuichi reassures Keebo that he should accept who he is and realize that his title of the Ultimate Robot makes him special and not worry on trying to change himself to make others like him. These events made me relate to Keebo's character a lot as I struggled with this problem of trying to be someone that I was not to get people's approval back in early High School. So when Shuichi told him that and made Keebo happy, it really impacted me as well. There are a couple of mistakes in his FTE's such as Keebo acting like a condescending dick while he never acted like that in the main story. However, I still found Keebo's free time events to be fulfilling and entertaining and gave me a stronger reason to care for Keebo's character. I wish that Kodaka didn't use Keebo only for his robophobia gimmick in the main story because there is a really great character hidden in there.

I actually find Keebo being a background character until Chapter 6 to make a lot of narrative sense, given he's supposed to only act as an audience surrogate for this killing game. He was never really intended to receive any real focus in the context of his role as a walking camera, even if it might not be the most satisfying thing.

Except he could've tied in perfectly with the ending. He's an AI. A fictional being. If his arc was related to what V3 discusses in the final trial, it would've been perfect foreshadowing, and would've provided a basis for Shuichi's "We may be fictional, but our pain is real" speech. I mean, if Keebo's feelings are real to him, then their feelings should be real, too.

And he could've started doubting his inner voice sooner, based on certain events that happen in the game. Or Kokichi could've tried to plant doubt in Keebo's mind, and then he starts questioning whether or not everything his inner voice suggests is actually helping or not.

If something like this happened, it'd fit really well with the "hope isn't always good" message in the final trial.

Keebo could've started out as out of focus, but he didn't have to stay like that for the entire game, because there were opportunities to make the story more interesting, and foreshadow certain messages.

Or Kokichi could've tried to plant doubt in Keebo's mind, and then he starts questioning whether or not everything his inner voice suggests is actually helping or not.

That wouldn't really make any sense though. As far as Kokichi and the others are concerned, Keebo's "inner voice" is just an odd quirk that doesn't really relate to anything, even bordering on nonsense, briefly brought up a couple times only to quickly be dropped. Kokichi has no reason to give such a seemingly meaningless trait the time of day. If perhaps Keebo listening to his inner voice led to something bad happening, that would be incentive to mention it and attempt to convince Keebo it isn't something he should trust blindly, but such a thing never happens.

Why wouldn't Kokichi give it a thought? He's the guy who thinks ten steps ahead of everyone else. He thought to have Miu make the electrohammers and the electrobombs. He figured out she was trying to kill him. For him to overlook the inner voice... It just doesn't make sense.

Even if he didn't try to get Keebo to doubt it, the fact it exists is still significant. He's the one who suggested it was a radio signal. And if that was the case, that would mean it's coming from somewhere, right? Maybe Miu could make something that would allow them all to hear whatever it is that Keebo's hearing. And maybe they could possibly call for help.

Kokichi should've at least tried to get more info out of Keebo about his inner voice.

Kokichi isn't perfect. If you saw the white board in his room you'd see Keebo was one of the participants he deemed suspicious, which might explain all the bullying.

You're assuming Kokichi doesn't actually know what that's about though, and considering he did try to suggest for Kiibo to fly at the start of the game the chances are he called Kiibo disappointing precisely as Kiibo was 'controlled' into being much lamer than he really was (Refer to the infamous robot dick comment where he basically said Kiibo's backstory was lame for a robot- Like he knows something we don't?), which would also explain why he cooperates readily with Gonta and Miu and not Kiibo, someone who as we can see actually aligns well enough with him in spite of their bickering- It wasn't simply difficult, it was literally impossible to do so when Kiibo was hijacked to the extent that his own will was compromised for much of the entire game.

If that were the case, he would probably be aware that the antenna is what's receiving the signals, too. He could easily come up with a way to get rid of that while making it look like an accident or something.

Funny that you should mention that, because even in my first time around I always thought it was way too much of a coincidence that Kiibo just happens to lose his antenna when Kokichi's gone and this coincidentally leads to the cast being able to investigate places they couldn't have entered otherwise, and coincidentally find clues that coincidentally throw the 'truth' into serious doubt.

He could easily come up with a way to get rid of that while making it look like an accident or something.

Considering I'm certain that Kokichi's true identity is critical to understand the game...nope, you have to keep in mind he was seriously handicapped the entire game even with Miu's help and a single wrong move with the Exisals around could simply lead to his death, plus with Monokuma and Tsumugi around they could just replace it again as long as Kiibo was unable to do stuff.

You have to consider too that Kiibo's lab doesn't appear until chapter 4 so strictly speaking there was no way Kokichi would ever go after the antenna until that point as it was a suicidal move for himself and Kiibo was partially motivated by Kaito and Kokichi anyway, so it's hard to say if removing his antenna before both of those things happened would have been of any use.

Keebo is probably the weirdest V3 character from a writing standpoint. Most of the other characters are either indifferent or antagonistic to him, and it's never called out by anyone. Even when he dies, nobody really seems to care. Compared to characters like Chihiro, Hajime or Gonta it feels like the game's narrative really doesn't give a shit about Keebo's problems.

Yet despite this Keebo seems really attached to his classmates, and is crestfallen by their deaths. He is amazingly empathetic to the people that treat him like complete garbage. It sorta reminds me of how the DR2 cast treated Monomi, but I at least understood why nobody trusted her. The V3 cast's hate for Kiibo is just baffling.

But hey, he got to Second Base with Miu so he has that going for him.

Overall I love Keebo, but I don't think the story knew what to do with him until Chapter 6.

I really wonder what game you played. The only character who was openly antagonistic towards Keebo was Kokichi, most of Keebo's claims of robophobia towards others are jokes because of the obvious persecution complex he developed in the game.

I was somewhat hyperbolic there with the comparison to Monomi.

I'm just saying that I felt that Keebo had genuine problems with regards to his identity (his desire to be seen as more than a machine) and his purpose. And neither the game's story nor most of its characters really care.

Yes, most of Kiibo's accusations of robophobia are ridiculous and deserved to be laughed off. But it feels like his existential crisis is also laughed at despite affecting him deeply. Think of the scene where he is kicked out of the seance, or the one with the hydraulic press.

IDK. I just think he deserved better.

I'm just saying that I felt that Keebo had genuine problems with regards to his identity (his desire to be seen as more than a machine) and his purpose. And neither the game's story nor most of its characters really care.

Most of the characters had their own problems to take care of and they're in a killing game to boot, I think demanding them to help Keebo get over his issues is a bit unreasonable but if you did care, you could always have done his FTE. Futhermore the one character Keebo got closest to in the plot was Miu, who definitely isn't someone who'd push another to better themselves, it'd be a different story if Keebo got closer to Kaito. It's a testament to Keebo's own internal strenght that he was able to embrace his robotic side in order to help the others in the end.

But it feels like his existential crisis is also laughed at despite affecting him deeply.

DR's brand of humor has always been somewhat dark but generally not without payoff for the comic relief. For Keebo, that's evidenced by how he is able to get over his issues on his own.

Think of the scene where he is kicked out of the seance, or the one with the hydraulic press.

Both were funny scenes, didn't really felt that there was an inherent bullying or distaste of the cast regarding Keebo (sans Kokichi in the Seance scene).

IDK. I just think he deserved better is all

Most of the characters did.

Most of the characters did.

That does not change the fact that he still deserved better.

Sure? I just don't like how some people paint Keebo as this huge misunderstood victim and imply the whole cast tormented him.

I think the 'he deserved better' part is more of 'treating Kibo as equal as the others' kind. Since he's been treated as inhuman from the beginning and the end, especially when the survivors think that the audience spared them and not Kibo himself which is a double that he's not respected after his death.

A important part of Keebo's arc was for him to accept his non humanity and stop lying to himself though.

[deleted]

Yeah that part pisses me off to no end. He sacrificed his life and defied the outside world to save your asses, and instead, you just automatically assume the people who previously all wanted you to die saved you instead.

God, I like Danganronpa, but sometimes, it just makes me angry -_-

I mean, the outside world was in control of him by that point, so wouldn't it have been the will of the outside world and not him? His personality was said to be deleted.

Usually friends would at least mention the possibility that their friend sacrificed themself of their own volition, or want to believe that over another option. I dunno about you, but if I was them, I'd want to believe that Keebo wasn't completely erased, even though I was told otherwise.

I believe not all since we see Kibo smiling right before he pressed the self destruct button.

How was Keebo treated like a villain by Shuichi and the others in chapter 6?

I wouldn't say he was a villain but he was definitely portrayed as being a bit misguided which is fine but I feel like they had Kiibo give up on the argument too quickly.

But the other redditor said Keebo was treated like a villain, and that definitely wasn't the case.

[deleted]

What? No. Shuichi treated Hope as the villain but he never blamed Keebo for it, he blamed the audience straight away.

By Tsumugi that's true though.

Tsumugi treated everyone like that when they rebelled though.

I think Keebo is ok. Honestly my big disappointment with him is that he could've done so much more. Tsumugi is annoyingly useless all game but I feel the same way about Keebo, and could even argue that up until Ch5 he's more of a waste of a roster spot. The amount of potential a robot could've had in so many mystery scenarios is extremely underutilized

I also feel he and Tsumugi kind of have obvious plot armor due to their talents

Honestly, I even like the idea that the class isn't completely friendly to him since he's a robot. Keebo definitely should've had more of a character beyond "robophobia", but it seemed realistic to me. I'm guessing a lot of people are going to be shitting on Himiko in her thread for how awful she is to Keebo but I'm glad the game tried to show this side people. Like if you started school with/started working with a literal robot, I doubt you'd see them as a person too. Sure you might treat them like one, and be nice to them, but the robophobia would definitely be silently thriving in most people's minds. That being said, I feel this wasn't executed well at all. Nobody ever stands up for Keebo and you have even the kindhearted ones of the group like Gonta throwing him into water tanks while he's begging not to

It's not that I have a problem with the game portraying it, it's the fact that it's always meant to be a joke but it's just so relentless. And since from our perspective Keebo is just another fictional character and not a robot, it feels really mean-spirited and uncomfortable. Sure it's occasionally funny (I like the seance bit in Ch3) but they absolutely could've had a better role in the game for him. So many of the cast interactions are just disgusting and uncomfortable

V3 has a huge problem with only bothering to develop most characters in their big chapter. Keebo is no exception, but I will say I really like how his character was in Ch6 and the twists associated with them. They don't amount to much but his arc in general is done pretty well

Overall I like Keebo. He's nice, a sweetheart, and plays off the cast pretty well. He absolutely could've been handled better (maybe instead of the cast constantly bullying him, they actually treat him well but always turn against him in class trials. This helps support the twist that he's the protagonist at the end too) but I still like him. There's no reason for him to not be a survivor at the end imo and his sacrifice felt completely weightless

He's also the only one who cares about Iruma when she dies so immediately became my favorite of the remaining cast

I'm guessing a lot of people are going to be shitting on Himiko in her thread for how awful she is to Keebo

You have no idea. Not just that, but her constant "hey, look how different I am from the beginning of the game! Can't you see what a dynamic character I totally am!? I'm not sad anymore!"

I don't know, I haven't followed too closely but I'd be surprised if she wasn't a popular character, expecting the top comments to be gushing about her in the same sense as Kuzuryu.

Not so sure about that. I like Himiko but in hindsight her development is a tad strange at some points and if you dislike her sthick than you probably wouldn't warm up to her.

Well, recently a lot bunch of people seems to label her as the worst kind of person in the entire game (even compared to others like Ouma or such) just because she said that one mean thing to Ki-Bo. Since then she's apparently the new Satan without Pickles or something when I just think she just has a terrible humor.

saying a good boy who just wants help you, "kill yourself" is one of the best way to gain hate, i guess the problem isn't with Himiko but with the victim, Keebo, who did nothing wrong but the world seems hate him, also many unpopular characters, like Hiyoko, did many death threats, so i can understand why people can't forgive her for what she did to Keebo

also that isn't the only mean thing she said to him:

"There's a big wall between objects and humans, but you're still our friend, Keebo"

dang it Himiko, she is racist AF, she also seems so she is so convinced that Keebo will never be at her level even if he becomes her friend

WTF Himiko

but the world seems hate him

Just because Keebo developed a persecution complex mid game that does not mean "the world hates him".

"There's a big wall between objects and humans, but you're still our friend, Keebo". dang it Himiko, she is racist AF, she also seems so she is so convinced that Keebo will never be at her level even if he becomes her friend

I mean, what she said isn't false. Keebo is a robot first and foremost, the barrier between human and robot will always be there even with how developed his AI is. She was also never particularly close to Keebo, she has no reason to mince her words there.

Just because Keebo developed a persecution complex mid game that does not mean "the world hates him".

That's funny, because I recall you saying that Keebo becoming more paranoid was supposed to be for comedy, making it insignificant. But now you're treating it seriously?

The world may not hate him, but his classmates certainly don't hold him in very high regard. Name one moment where someone stood up for Keebo. By the time Tsumugi says he has a persecution complex, he had been used as a battering ram without anyone asking if he was waterproof, forced to participate in a seance while being treated like a nuisance, kicked out of the seance for reasons that were already apparent before they forced him to join, and then when he calls the others out on that, he's just told to "stop whining." That's on top of all the insults he has to put up with from Kokichi, Himiko, and Tenko, even if it IS mostly just Kokichi. Not once does anyone step in and defend Keebo. And, yes, he does try to defend himself, but there is one moment where he's asking for support from the others.

Kokichi: Aw maaan... We didn't need more junk. We had way too much anyway. And its name is Keebo.

Keebo: Now you've gone too far! Everyone, we can't allow this kind of intolerant language!

Keebo specifically asks for everyone else to support him, and no one says anything. Oh, and when he wants Shuichi to help confirm his humanity with the electrohammer, Shuichi just says it's a waste of time, which clearly hurts Keebo a lot. This is something that is very important to him, and he was just told it was a waste of time. And then after seeing Keebo off, Shuichi just notes that robots can pout, too. He doesn't say anything about how he might've hurt Keebo's feelings. Are you going to say something like "it IS a waste of time because Keebo's a machine" or "It IS a waste of time because it'll just use up the electrohammer's power"? Just because something's true doesn't make it okay to say. And before you refer to chapter 4, that was when everyone's lives were on the line. Oh, and ALSO before you refer to Keebo's own insensitive remarks, there's an obvious reason why Keebo says those things. And there's a very simple solution to prevent further remarks like that. If someone just explained to Keebo why he shouldn't have said something when he did, then he would've made sure to keep that in mind in the future.

Regardless, I'm sure you're wondering why I'm giving Keebo a free pass while I scrutinize the others' actions. Well, that's easy.

Because others like Gonta, Himiko, Shuichi, and Maki are defended fervently while Keebo isn't.
There is little to no justification for Keebo's treatment, unlike Miu and Kokichi.
With that, it just feels like there's an unfair negative bias towards Keebo when there's no reason for it. Like he was singled out.

I mean, what she said isn't false. Keebo is a robot first and foremost, the barrier between human and robot will always be there even with how developed his AI is.

Why do you need to remind the robot who already struggles with validating himself that he'll never be on an equal level even if it's true? Is it okay to say that just because he's a robot? Do you really think someone could get away with saying that if you replaced "objects" and "humans" with two other things?

The only difference between Keebo and his friends is superficial. He's a machine, not a living, breathing creature. But why should that even matter? How does being a machine make him inferior? Can you explain that to me?

She was also never particularly close to Keebo, she has no reason to mince her words there.

Then why does she suddenly cry about Keebo during the trial as if he was a close friend? She's the one who says more than just his name when he's hijacked. It's inconsistent, unless her opinion of Keebo suddenly improved over the course of the final trial.

That's funny, because I recall you saying that Keebo becoming more paranoid was supposed to be for comedy, making it insignificant. But now you're treating it seriously?

Where did you see me saying that? He developed a persecution complex alright but it was treated as a joke. Some people here ( you included) tend overblow that too much just because you like the character a lot.

By the time Tsumugi says he has a persecution complex, he had been used as a battering ram without anyone asking if he was waterproof, forced to participate in a seance while being treated like a nuisance, kicked out of the seance for reasons that were already apparent before they forced him to join, and then when he calls the others out on that, he's just told to "stop whining."

Good god, not even Keebo is as sensitive as you are. Keebo is a comic relief character so whether you like it or not, obviously he's going to find himself in funny situations like getting molested fixed by Miu, suffering from Ouma's revenge after he destroyed Ouma's plan of making a motive video party (the battering ram incident in ch2) or even the whole hydraulic press shenanigan in ch5. You're not supposed to think it's a horrible traumatic event for him, the game itself doesn't really treats it like that.

That's not to say, he isn't the type of comic relief character without depth or pay off, in chapter 3, the seance scene with him is not just for comic relief since the picture he took from the magic circle was instrumental in exposing the true culprit's lie (and Shuichi even remarks that). Chapter 6 as a whole is a another big pay off moment to him too, with him finally embracing his robotic nature and helping the others to get important clues.

That's on top of all the insults he has to put up with from Kokichi, Himiko, and Tenko, even if it IS mostly just Kokichi. Not once does anyone step in and defend Keebo. And, yes, he does try to defend himself, but there is one moment where he's asking for support from the others.

To be honest, with the way Keebo's character is set up, it's extremely likely that if anyone tried to defend himself he'd just claim that person is looking down on him thinking he could not stand up for himself because he's a robot and how "that's robophobic".

I don't even know why Tenko (who is mostly an asshole towards anything male) and Himiko who just has a very bad sense of humor were included there alongside Kokichi (the only one guy who actually acted like a bully towards Keebo) in your phrase.

Keebo specifically asks for everyone else to support him, and no one says anything

Man, why do you keep twisting funny scenes into "traumatic" scenes that supposedly prove that everybody hated Keebo? Ouma is a little asshole, yes, and Keebo isn't the only one individual he acted antagonistic against. What did you even want the cast to do? Reprimand Ouma, when that isn't going to work to begin with? Beat him up? Kill him because he did what he always did and insulted someone?

Oh, and when he wants Shuichi to help confirm his humanity with the electrohammer, Shuichi just says it's a waste of time, which clearly hurts Keebo a lot. This is something that is very important to him, and he was just told it was a waste of time.

Do you think Keebo is some sort of child? Do you think the cast needed to back down, bow to him and attend to every wish he made? Of course the electrohammer would affect him, Keebo is not only not a human but he's also a eletronic device. It really would just be a waste of time hitting him with it.

You're so biased that it hurts.

And then after seeing Keebo off, Shuichi just notes that robots can pout, too. He doesn't say anything about how he might've hurt Keebo's feelings

Keebo is already mature enough to assert that he was being dumb regarding his inquiry about being hit with a electrohammer. There is no need to walk on egg shells around him.

Are you going to say something like "it IS a waste of time because Keebo's a machine" or "It IS a waste of time because it'll just use up the electrohammer's power"?

It's both.

Just because something's true doesn't make it okay to say

Keebo was being silly. And as an AI with learning capabilities he needs to be confronted with the truth in order to grow (and he did, later on in chapter 6, by accepting his nature as a robot). There is no need to sugarcoat the fact that, yes, he is a fucking machine and fundamentally different from the others.

. Oh, and ALSO before you refer to Keebo's own insensitive remarks, there's an obvious reason why Keebo says those things. And there's a very simple solution to prevent further remarks like that. If someone just explained to Keebo why he shouldn't have said something when he did, then he would've made sure to keep that in mind in the future.

You're surely acting as if Keebo is a child who doesn't knows any better.

Because others like Gonta, Himiko, Shuichi, and Maki are defended fervently while Keebo isn't.

I only see Keebo being defended with this level of fervor, to the point where someone like you gets comic relief scenes and thwn you twist them into something traumatic and sad that supposedly affected the characters deeply (when it didn't) instead of being just, you know, comedy.

There is little to no justification for Keebo's treatment, unlike Miu and Kokichi.

Only Kokichi really treats Keebo bad. The others treat him just fine most of the time.

With that, it just feels like there's an unfair negative bias towards Keebo when there's no reason for it. Like he was singled out.

Nah, you're biased towards him so you think everyone in the cast should've walked on egg shells when he was having difficulty in accepting that he was a fucking machine for some reason.

Why do you need to remind the robot who already struggles with validating himself that he'll never be on an equal level even if it's true?

Why not? It's the truth isn't? "You need to confront the truth in order to choose a path" is one of the themes of the game and what Kaede tells Shuichi before the first trial.

The only difference between Keebo and his friends is superficial. He's a machine, not a living, breathing creature. But why should that even matter? How does being a machine make him inferior? Can you explain that to me?

Himiko never said he was inferior, just that there was a barrier between them, if anything being a robot allows Keebo to reach things that normal humans can't through upgrades. Like, he was the only one able to spot the Nanokubs.

Then why does she suddenly cry about Keebo during the trial as if he was a close friend?

Because he was still a friend and someone who survived with the rest of them until the end. She pretty much said that before the trial. What, you can only cry for close friends now?

She's the one who says more than just his name when he's hijacked. It's inconsistent, unless her opinion of Keebo suddenly improved over the course of the final trial.

Or perhaps the cast never really hated Keebo or disliked him? I know, shocking isn't.

Normally I wouldn't go this far. But I actually have a reason to this time.

Kodaka literally says that Keebo's miserable.
But, you know what? I do tend to get really passionate about things I like. So, I apologize for conducting myself in a rather immature way.

It's just frustrating that his "arc" was shoved into chapter 6, making it seem really sudden, because there were never any signs that Keebo was really starting to reconsider himself. It wasn't until he lost his inner voice and had to make a decision on his own that he just decided to get over his insecurities. And it would've been far more effective if there was at least one person supporting him. Having him resolve it in the background by himself is just kinda disheartening.

I will still argue, however, that him being a machine doesn't make him any less of a person... actually, I think the problem is that the game makes Keebo's character arc seem like one thing, but it's actually another. I was always under the assumption that Keebo wanted to be perceived as a person. Why else would he want to be more human, but still be proud of being a machine? Human = person (someone with real thoughts and feelings and self-awareness) to Keebo (and probably everyone else). But in reality it seemed like he was just insecure about being different from everyone else. It might not seem like it, but there is a difference between being seen as a person and being accepted despite being different.

It's disappointing because if they went down that route, they could've tied it into the ending. Keebo has real feelings. The fictional characters have real feelings. Keebo's a robot (not a person), so it could've worked perfectly as a parallel.

Normally I wouldn't go this far. But I actually have a reason to this time. Kodaka literally says that Keebo's miserable.

Kodaka is a known jokester. Big part of those last comments he makes in these character sheets are frankly exaggerated, for example, "suffering from constant robophobia" is simply untrue since a big part of it came from Keebo's paranoic mind.

I mean, hell, even when giving him presents he likes he ends up accusing Shuichi of robophobia all the same. At least that part of him is clearly played for laughs.

He, indeed , has a conflict regarding his robotic body and how it makes him different from the others but nobody outright makes fun of him because of it except for Ouma. Himiko jokes a lot too but that's mainly because of her horrible sense of humor, she did the same shit with Maki too.

But, you know what? I do tend to get really passionate about things I like. So, I apologize for conducting myself in a rather immature way.

You probably should try to be a less biased when analyzing things. I like Keebo a lot, he's among my top 5 characters in V3 but I wouldn't say he was hated throughout the game or that the entire cast excluded him.

By the way, I'm sorry too. I may have gotten a little over the top in my prior reply.

It's just frustrating that his "arc" was shoved into chapter 6, making it seem really sudden, because there were never any signs that Keebo was really starting to reconsider himself. It wasn't until he lost his inner voice and had to make a decision on his own that he just decided to get over his insecurities. And it would've been far more effective if there was at least one person supporting him.

Well, think on the positive side. At least Keebo had an arc and a role beyond comic relief. Other comic relief characters like Hagakure and Soda couldn't even develop properly within their games. Keebo had a estabilished conflict AND he managed to get over it in the end.

Having him resolve it in the background by himself is just kinda disheartening.

I think that shows the strenght of his will. Shuichi and Maki are initially weak characters, they only managed to develop and get out of their respective shells because of other people. Keebo, while overly sensitive, never felt weak. I think that's the reason why he was able to think with clarity and quickly develop beyond his complex about his self perceived "lack of humanity" once he didn't had the antenna anymore.

I will still argue, however, that him being a machine doesn't make him any less of a person... actually, I think the problem is that the game makes Keebo's character arc seem like one thing, but it's actually another. I was always under the assumption that Keebo wanted to be perceived as a person. Why else would he want to be more human, but still be proud of being a machine?

One of the messages of V3 is that "you shouldn't run away from the truth, you need to face it, in order to make your choice and choose your own path". Throughout the game, Keebo frequently beats himself over the fact that he is different from the rest of the cast even though Ouma is the only one who constantly gives him a hard time for it. By embracing the truth that he is indeed different, Keebo was able to level up and substantially help the rest of the surviving cast in the last investigation.

Human = person (someone with real thoughts and feelings and self-awareness) to Keebo (and probably everyone else). But in reality it seemed like he was just insecure about being different from everyone else. It might not seem like it, but there is a difference between being seen as a person and being accepted despite being different.

I'd argue that by the end of the story he didn't care that much about being seen as a person because he fully embraced the fact that he was a robot.

Anyway, his prior desire to be recognized as a person can also be seen as something paradoxal since while he wanted to have his "humanity" recognized, he also wanted to be recognized by the various tools and appliances he had in his body. So I'd say that deep down, he never really had any shame over the fact that he was a robot.

It's disappointing because if they went down that route, they could've tied it into the ending. Keebo has real feelings. The fictional characters have real feelings. Keebo's a robot (not a person), so it could've worked perfectly as a parallel.

I think Keebo's arc is tied to one of the messages of V3, that one being what Kaede told Shuichi early on, about facing the truth head on and then forging your own path with it.

His condition might not have been directly referenced in the whole fictional plot point but that may be so because it affected the whole cast already.

continue this thread

I expect her to be praised a fair amount. I'm not speaking for everyone, just that I really didn't like her character.

Most screwed-over DR character. Even Shuichi has some happy things happen to him, Keebo got fuck all.

Treated by garbage by his so-called friends, with nobody standing up for him. Kokichi and Himiko as documented were the worst about it, but special shout-out to Shuichi for giving him up for lost in the end without even thinking he could be saved (way to spit on what Kaede and Kaito were trying to teach you, bro). Even more painful because like, Keebo's the nicest guy ever. Even fucking Kokichi gets treated with more respect than him and I shouldn't have to explain why that's fucked up.

Learns his whole life was built on a lie and then gets his personality and free will, the things he treasures the most because they make him "alive" overridden because Tsumugi is The Worst.

Becomes the equivalent to a school shooter by the end partially because of just how fed up he is with everything.

Still willingly chooses to sacrifice himself for Shuichi, Maki and Himiko because they were his friends and didn't want them to die in spite of their willingness to. In the end, he dies making his own choice and not what anyone else wanted. Cliche, but that smile he gives before his choosing to blow himself up just gets to me.

Adding onto that, it gets completely brushed over. Because God forbid, Keebo gets anything worthwhile from the characters right, Kodaka? Nah, your precious themes come first. The next game better give some focus onto this because Keebo deserved so much better.

Adding onto that, it gets completely brushed over. Because God forbid, Keebo gets anything worthwhile from the characters right, Kodaka? Nah, your precious themes come first.

FUCKING PREACH.

[+13]Important roles

Used as a battering ram

I mean technically it's true, but poor Keebo...

This is a running thing I feel with most of the V3 cast. I don't necessarily dislike the characters or their personalities, but I have more of a problem with how they're used in the story. Keeboi is no exception here. There are three characters in particular I feel are quite…directed. Keebo, Tenko, and Angie all give me this impression, and I'm not sure if others felt the same way.

Keebo feels less like a character for a large part of the game and more of a meanspirited pawn. Obviously he's a robot, and he's portrayed as being slighted by nearly anything anyone does or says, with his catchphrase pretty much being "That's robophobic!" Not only that, but he constantly tries to show off his features or differentiate himself and insisting on being boastful about his identity and his differences while also wanting to be treated like everyone else. I know they have the plotpoint for him where he's pretty much the medium the killing game is being shown through, but aside from a few bits of foreshadowing, this doesn't really amount to anything until the very end of the game.

I feel the "robophobia" aspect of his character is particularly meanspirited, as you can essentially sub it in for "that's racist" or "that's sexist" "That's homophobic!" You can pretty much sub in any marginalized group you'd like, since it's more or less using robophobia as a stand-in. Using a character slot to create a cheap strawman for the game not only comes off as meanspirited, but isn't really funny or interesting to me. I don't really care to unpack a discussion of discrimination with the average /r/danganronpa user quite frankly, but I'll just say that the whole "sticking in to the es jay dubyas" talking point is mostly a bullshit strawman. I say this as someone who has dealt with a life of prejudice and being on the receiving end of racism, but K1-b0's portrayal comes off as a giant middle finger.

I definitely think the localization is the main issue I have behind this, but even in the Japanese version (because someone will inevitably try to bring up a "east vs west/Japanese culture" point), the game constantly bullies K1-b0 and he's portrayed as just being a whiny brat for complaining about it since it's played off as a joke or the game explicitly tells us that he just has a victim complex--said by Tsumugi in chapter 4 with a meta joke.

Considering that the game openly references red pill talking points with Miu, 4chan speak several times, and other crap like that, I don't think it's a stretch to think that Keebo's portrayal is meant to be a mockery of this. K1-b0 feels less like a character to me and more some edgelord on 4chan who builds their entire world understanding on memes making fun of Tumblr users and K1-b0 is their interpretation.

Now mind you I really like K1-b0's personality—The ultra-logical robotic character wanting to grasp human identity isn't terribly original, but it is interesting. I also appreciate his presence during the class trials, and he was one of the first characters to grab me during the prologue. I just find it really annoying and unfunny when the game has us constantly be treated to him declaring everything robophobic.

It's made worse by the fact that Keebo is regularly disrespected and bullied in the game so the joke doesn't even work when he's constantly picked on. Even in Kaede's FTEs with him, she doesn't respect his boundaries and decides to just randomly press one of his buttons without knowing what will happen.

Kokichi regularly bullies him, and seeing the sheer number of people defend this by saying he's just a liar or he's not serious is staggering. It doesn't matter if he's hiding his true feelings or is just trolling. He still goes out of his way to say it. Hell, Hiyoko regularly bullied Mikan and when you have her FTEs, she attacks you as a defensive measure because she's been targeted by people herself and is quite defensive. It actually makes much more sense for her character, but it's still bullying. If you just take Kokichi's dialogue and have someone like Hiyoko say it, it makes it pretty clear what a dick he can be.

It wouldn't bother me as much if maybe they went in a direction where Keebo is bullied but the game acknowledges it. They've done this before and it works well when they do it properly. Chihiro is attacked by Byakuya in DR 1, but we're not meant to find it funny or side with Byakuya. Even when Mondo inadvertently hits a sore spot at Chihiro's body image, he realizes that, owns up to it, and apologizes even though it wasn't intentional.

One of the big complaints I've seen about Hiyoko's character in DR 2 is that she regularly bullies Mikan and to a lesser degree Kazuichi and nobody ever really comments on it and only like two characters ever really bother to say anything when someone is bullying Mikan. Portraying bullying in itself isn't really an issue, but you have to be aware of what kind of message you're sending based on how the other characters react to it.

For me, Keebo's portrayal would be like having Mikan get bullied all the time, but then the game portraying her as just being whiny for being upset over being bullied.

Keebo always felt like he just wanted to be special for his identity and for being different, and if he's ever antagonized for how he acts, the game pretty much sides against him and writes him off as just having a victim complex.

As for his role in the main story, there are a few bits of foreshadowing leading up to it, but I still think the twist with him at the end didn't really do much. It just sorta happens at the last minute piled up top of everything else that was happening.

It's not terribly original, but it feels more like a wasted opportunity that he never really got closer to Shinguji. You have a character who wishes to learn more about human customs and there's a character with a talent specifically focused in human customs and traditions, and you can have the extra dynamic where everyone is sorta creeped out by Kiyo, but because Keebo has no real understanding of different social cues, he has no reason to be creeped out and becomes good friends with Kiyo.

You also kinda have to overlook the fact that he was fine with everyone dying, and after a case with Maki more than willing to let everyone die via mass execution and Tsumugi turning out to be the mastermind, it feels just kind of awkward at the end when more than half the people you're with in the last chapter are ready to let you die. Not to say that this didn't happen before since DR 1 had Byakuya, a literal serial killer, and Asahina who attempted to kill everyone, but it's easier to have sympathy and still side with Hina, who had someone openly taunting her friend over their death and welcoming Sakura being killed as opposed to Maki just wanting Kokichi killed, but K1-b0 just deciding to go on a killing spree since he doesn't hear the voices anymore I feel kinda came off as a bit awkward, but because this is Danganronpa, we need to have a hope terrorist go do something big at the end of the game like Nagito and Ryota.

All in all, I do like K1-b0 for his personality and what he offers to the class trials. That said, I absolutely despise how he's portrayed in the game and where they go with his character.

Someone else reading the Kokichi/Keebo dynamic for the filth it is! It really makes me uncomfortable how everyone is so willing to defend this and it especially skeeves me when one of DR2's biggest themes was bullying and it's affect on teenagers (Hiyoko, Kazuichi and Mikan as you said and I'd add Hajime, and from the first game Chihiro and Toko), so seeing Keebo get shit left and right and having it played for laughs (and his most popular ship is with Kokichi, his biggest tormentor which is so damn creepy, I cannot stand these kinds of ships) is just disappointing.

Yeah, this particularly bugged me when people just brushed it off by saying it's a comedy. I could understand dickish characters picking on Keebo, but even people like Kaede, Gonta, Tenko, and Shuichi contribute as well and the most the game can say is that he just has a victim complex.

The bullying part of it is hard enough, but the fact that you can sub in robophobia for anything else really gave me the impression that they're just extending this to just writing off anyone who talks about being discriminated for their identity is just being a whiny victim that needs to learn to take a joke. Fuck that.

And this is the same writer that gave us Chihiro and Mikan, who certainly were not treated as having victim complexes, which makes me even more disappointed in Kodaka. He's a better writer than this.

Keebo uselessly spouting "robophobia" at everything can also be coupled with Tenko's behavior towards men and her incredibly shallow reason for feeling that way which makes her look like the biggest idiot in the cast. Both of them can be interpreted as anti "SJW"

and it's a huge issue I have with it. The fact that they'd use up entire character slots for that is shitty writing, as is the case of immaturely portraying characters over a really shallow narrative.

I try to avoid saying Kodaka because from a development standpoint he's not literally the only person handling the writing, but I do think he's a pretty poor writer when it comes to things like this.

Isn't 'tormentor' a strong word to use when Kiibo himself repeatedly expresses interest in trying to figure out Kokichi and he calls Kokichi a friend in Talent Development Plan which even earns praise from Kokichi?

Their dynamic is pretty odd because the only robots Kokichi unambiguously detests are the Monokubs, and from the start it kind of feels like he's disappointed in Kiibo's lameness for reasons Kiibo doesn't know himself rather than simply discriminating, and he even comments at one point that Monodam (The robot-looking one) was being left out just like Kiibo- Something pretty odd for Kokichi to say were he nothing more than a bully.

There's just one more thing to add here, and it's that when Kokichi does stuff like calling Kiibo a pea-counting robot and Kiibo retorts that he can count more than just peas it feels like two children bickering or a manzai routine more than actual bullying...and considering how child-like Kokichi is and how young Kiibo appears to be due to the reset, I really don't think it's as simple a matter as bullying especially when these two were deliberately placed together and Kiibo said that Kokichi was chattering a lot with him prior to meeting with Kaede and Shuichi.

Himiko is very immature as well and we can tell from the time she tried to joke with Maki about her killer stare that she just has a bad sense of humor. So her telling Keebo to go kill himself might as well just be those darn kids picking on each other instead of bullying. If you look at it that way.

Considering Kiibo is one half of why the cast survived the last trial, I really can't consider that a joke (The tone itself is hardly right, as opposed to how Kokichi really looks sometimes like he's doing a manzai act with Kiibo) especially with how she later acts as if Kokichi is less human than Kiibo or there's no way he can cry real tears.

In fact Kiibo might care about everyone but you can see him giving Kokichi a lot of benefit of the doubt in spite of everything while he seems to brush off Himiko when she offers to change him into a real human with magic almost as if he's just done with her, while he doesn't do so with Kokichi because he feels Kokichi is making a point and was doing his best to help in spite of...well, being like that.

I think him brushing off Himiko was more just because he didn't have his inner voice. He had a one-track mind. He comes when you need him, blows up the door, and leaves. No room for small talk.

Possibly, but it's pretty noticeable still that Kiibo really does think a surprising lot about Kokichi even though he also regards much of what Kokichi says to be robophobia (And in spite of my arguments, I do agree that sometimes Kiibo is oversensitive though it's still in my opinion bad that he had a legitimate crisis about his identity and this was ignored almost as much as his more comedic protests)...despite the fact that Kokichi actually seems pretty fond of robots and is no slacker when it comes to science.

My point is, there seems to be a pretty clear difference to how Kiibo reacts to Kokichi's and Himiko's insults even before the last chapter and it's weird because you'd think Kiibo could brush Kokichi off just as much but he for whatever reason refuses to do so.

I do agree that Kokichi's treatment of Keebo is unacceptable. But at the same time, I'm just willing to overlook it because he's so entertaining in everything else he does. Well, that, and...

As I said in my own post, I'd been trying to figure out why Kokichi kept bullying Keebo. I was gonna save this for Kokichi's discussion since it felt more relevant to him, but I guess now's as good a time as any to talk about it. Kokichi's made out to be so methodical, and always thinking ten steps ahead of everyone else, I thought there HAD to be some underlying reason for it. Was he trying to do what he did with Kaito, and get Keebo to do the things Kokichi says he can't? Was he trying to get Keebo to make himself useful? What was it?

The reason why I thought there had to be something else to it was because of how he called out Himiko in chapter 3 and got her to actually admit her feelings. Well, that, and he kept insulting Miu after it became more than apparent that she gets off on it.

Still doesn't change the fact he's a douche, though. I just tried to give him the benefit of the doubt.

I suppose, but I don't really care why Kokichi did it. I'm not necessarily saying he's a one dimensional douche, but I'm just tired of it being brought up that Kokichi did it because of X and that makes it fine.

Not only do I think Kokichi is just generally given way too much credit because pretty much anything can be called him secretly trying to do something, but it doesn't change the fact hat he's still bullying Keebo even if he has some different endgame or interpretation.

One of my favorite characters in the series...except that weird part in Chapter 6 where he's like "Imma sacrifice you all and blow this fucker up!". It didn't sit well with me then, and still doesn't. At least we got the audience surrogate twist and then I liked him a lot more, but I still am a bit weird about that one part.

Still, Keebo was great. He has great presence, he's super nice, he's funny, he gets great interactions with his fellow cast. I really liked him, and I wish he survived V3. I legit felt like trash when he blew himself up. He was too good for this world.

RIP Keebo.

As evident by my flair, Kiibo is my fave character. I enjoy what we got, but I also think that he got massively screwed over during the main story.

As many people have pointed out or made separate posts for, Kiibo for Chapters 1-5 is largely a joke character that is ignored, not present or the butt of some robophobia joke or bullying. The majority of his best moments and development are reserved for Chapter 6 and shoved in to fit there.

Also I wish Kiibo was more involved with his classmates too. I feel he didn't have any real meaningful relationship with any of the final group, and the closest relationships he had was with Iruma (this is kinda a joke relationship) and Ouma if you really count it (one sided bullying).

I think it really would've made Kiibo's role in Chapter 6 a lot more stronger and emotional if he had some real bonds with his fellow classmates. I know a lot of people talk about how Shirogane was such a great mastermind/character cause she was deliberately a plain Jane, who masterfully made herself feel involved in the group (AKA not come off as anti social) but at the same time avoid any meaningful bonding with any student, cause she was the mastermind and to her the entire thing was just fiction that she just wanted to watch unravel. That fits her character and makes sense, but it feels like for the most part Kiibo went through the same thing where he doesn't get much in the sense of meaningful screentime with a fellow classmate and it doesn't have the same reasoning or pay off.

I love Kiibo for what he had, I wish he wasn't such a butt monkey for Ch 1-5 and have most of his development and relevancy shoved into Ch 6. I forgot who said it but a comment I read about Kiibo really stuck with me, saying "sometimes you'll forget Kiibo even exists for periods of time" in the middle of the story and its so true it hurts.

Kiibo died for our sins.

Ah, now that you put it like that...

Maybe we could think of Kiibo like Twitch Plays Pokémon? Everyone trying to take control of Kiibo, but it just creates a stand still and by the time democracy is back, it's too late to do any meanwhile interaction. It also explains why he only spends time with Miu (cause she's attractive) and Kokichi (cause the audience are sadists)!

Please save Kiibo from twitch chat.

Also hey, long time no see ^^

Kiibo seemed to me an extremely static character most of the time, and he really did not do much to the trials to get me interested since his only role was almost always to agree with Shuichi

The crisis of being a robot and not a human being was almost nothing explored except chapter 4 when he says he is a bit disappointed to have a robotic body but then that does not appear again until chapter 5 is depressed by the hydraulic press but that was only used for later use in the jucio so I really do not feel much the problem in not being human.

Finally, there would be his Free time events where for some reason he becomes super arrogant in being a robot and in that he has incredible improvements with respect to humans.

I really hope that the community is really mature and I do not put Downvotes for not sharing their opinion

Hey, I agree with you at least. He is more or less nonexistant in the class trials aside from pre-Scrum Debates(which is like 50% of his lines in one trial) and the occasional use of him as a plot device along with Miu.

The fact that he is robot seems to be only used as a reason to bully him, I really wish the game explored his human side a little bit more. Instead we got 90% of his development squandered to around 20 minutes near the end of Chapter 6 and it just doesn't feel natural and more like a plot convenience to wrap up the game.

I usually have a soft spot for bullied characters, but Keebo never truly left an impression on me like other characters did so he is on the lower end of my character list. One thing I would say though is that he really deserved better treatment, both from an ingame and plot standpoint, which is something that is true for like 80% of the V3 characters sadly.

Finally, there would be his Free time events where for some reason he becomes super arrogant in being a robot and in that he has incredible improvements with respect to humans.

Yeah, I'm still wondering how he got that super arrogant. For me, that attitude sounds fishy.

My favourite character from V3 by far and I'd argue one of the more underrated characters in the series.

On paper, I feel like Kiibo shares a lot of similarities with Sonia in terms of the way he is treated throughout the game. He's that character who isn't exactly the most plot-relevant but is just nice and quirky enough to the point where most people are fine with him. Throw some robophobic jokes in and boom. There ya go. He may not be the most complex or in the face character that the game wants you to love to its own detriment (coughKaitoandMaki) but he's serviceable and I think he works quite well when he shines.

However, I feel like there's a bit more nuance thrown in that's pretty brilliant and it's a shame it gets focused on so late. Having Kiibo question how he's perceived by others(in particular Miu) and struggling with the concept of having his own identity be more fictional than anyone else at the very end is interesting but the game kinda wraps up before it can get explored as much as it should, a sentiment I feel he shares with Ryoma and to some extent Miu. Great character that is primarily used for plot purposes before being a character.

If there's anything you can really critique him for it's that he's treated like crap for a majority of the game for no good reason. There's no real reasoning behind it other than the game needing a butt monkey and to be honest it kinda hurts him overall because by the end of the game he's the only student aside from Tsumugi that doesn't really have any fleshed out relationships. Other than a slight thing with Miu but that's played as a flat out joke for most of the game and while it does get somewhat sweet towards the end it's a tad too late. If his friendship with Miu was treated with a bit more seriousness earlier on it'd be a big improvement for both characters really, especially since they both mainly serve the role of plot advancement.

It's part of the reason the sacrifice at the end really bugs me because while it does showcase that Kiibo was truly a nice person the remaining 3 students(especially Himiko) were basically either just a dick or paid very little attention to him before the numbers really started whittling down. It's hard to really claim Kiibo was in the wrong for wanting to destroy everything because it's not as if he was treated with kindness anyway.

Speaking of the finale of the game what spotlight he does get is pretty great albeit his final fate is a bit disappointing because not only is it stupid last minute but it's also really undeserved. His own sacrifice, while touching, is quickly played off as something the outside world was more the cause of rather than a result of Kiibo's own actions. It's actually really annoying because I feel like it's a fine culmination with a pointlessly mean finish.

Having him gain his own free will and eventually become more pragmatic is great.I feel like he serves as a better Munakata in that regard than Munakata ever did. Goes from a nice well-meaning character to a bit of a jaded extremist due to his experiences in the killing game is a realistic experience but I think it should have happened maybe 2 chapters earlier as there's way too much stuff going on in Chapter 6 as is. It's not bad because it's really fascinating to watch, just wish there was more of it.

I get what the game was going for though: He's Naegi without all the special attention. A well-meaning average person who just so happens to not be the protagonist this time around and as a result struggles a lot more as a result. Though when your closest friend is arguably Miu you know you have a tough road in front of you.

Yes, he's a robot but that's never really the point aside from a few scenes towards the endgame. He really is the perfect DR protag on paper which is why it's quite intriguing that he's the one character who receives the ultimate hope title. Average enough to be an everyman yet special enough to stand out. Perfect in-universe surrogate. Throughout the entire game, he never really cares much about the concept all that much til the flashback light gimmick in the end.He even quickly gives up his argument with Saihara because he doesn't really prioritize the idea of it as deeply as Team DR was hoping for. In many ways, he's a more realistic version of Naegi. He's forced to change his way of thinking and is truly nothing special aside from his unique talent which I think serves as an interesting juxtaposition.

Ultimately, Kiibo may not be the most complex character in the cast and suffers in particular for being sidelined for a bit too long before getting his moment in the sun but I'd argue what we did get is a very strong character despite some shortcomings. He's not the best-written character in V3 but he's easily the character who the game has the least bias against in terms of showcasing their positive attributes and faults.

Oh and he's adorable.Really really adorable.Miu has good taste in that regard... but please do not lewd best bot.

I kinda regret not making this its own post because people keep talking about the things I mention here and I'm sitting here like "YES PLEASE DISCUSS THIS WITH ME."

Due to the length, I don't really feel comfortable making this one massive comment, so I'm gonna break it down into parts, replying to my own comment each time.

So guess what? I wrote a huge essay over 4,000 words long on what I assumed Keebo's character was about. It was all just my idea.

In reality, it's just about him being different. Kodaka's comments in Keebo's artbook profile led me to believe that there was more existentialism involved. I thought it was about getting the others to understand that what he feels is real. But it's just that he wants them to stop discriminating against him because he's a robot. That's it.

Well, he also wants people to stop expecting him to be able to do specific things just because he's a robot, too.

What really confused me is that Kokichi kept teasing him about stuff like "robots aren't people" and "robots can't understand human emotion," but then Keebo's arc concludes with "It's okay that I'm different because I can evolve in ways that humans can't." The things Kokichi teased Keebo about sound like they're referring to the existential part of being a robot. But, instead, it seems that it was simply Kokichi pointing out how Keebo is different.

Which actually makes me even more frustrated that they missed a perfect opportunity to connect Keebo's character arc with V3's theme. You know, the whole fictional characters have real feelings bit? Which would fit Keebo to a T? The opportunity was staring Kodaka right in the face. And instead he chose to put Keebo on the bench until the plot needed him.

But, man, this realization definitely kills a lot of my analysis, which is now just a bunch of speculation.

Oh well. There's at least some things I can still be sure about. Also I spent two weeks on that thing so like heck am I gonna let it go to waste.

Just pretend that Keebo's arc was in a similar vein to the whole FICTION/FACT thing while reading this.

AHEM

It's no secret that I love Keebo and am heavily biased towards him, but there's so much wasted potential in regards to his character. Where do I even begin?

Keebo could have perfectly tied into the theme of V3 and its ending. How? Just remember the key points from Keebo's part of final trial.

Even if it's fiction, the feelings are real
If hope demands more tragedy, then it cannot be trusted
Artificial can also be considered fiction. Specifically, an artificial intelligence can be considered fictional. Keebo is a robot with an AI. By default, he is a fictional character. And he very much has feelings. He tries to get that point across throughout the game, but is always ignored. It's like no one understands just how important it is that he be acknowledged as an equal, and how important it is that they understand that his feelings are, in fact, very real.

In Danganronpa, real people are brainwashed to become entirely new, fictional people. Then they are forced to kill each other. Over, and over, and over again. There's always pain and suffering. And this is all just seen as entertainment for the outside world. They don't care about the characters' feelings. They care about the drama it creates. Sound familiar?

Shuichi: Even if this is fiction, even if we're all fictional... The pain in my heart is real! The sadness I feel when I lose the people I love is real!

Now look at what Keebo says shortly after:

Keebo: I may be a robot, but the thought of my friends dying still fills me with sadness.

Do you see what I'm getting at? Keebo's character arc could have foreshadowed the true nature of the killing game. If the other students realized that Keebo's problems weren't just trivial to him... it could've perfectly tied in with the final trial. Because, in the end, they're just like Keebo: fictional characters. But that doesn't mean their feelings aren't real or are insignificant. Keebo could've proven that.

The same thing applies for Key Point 2. Keebo's inner voice always guides him towards hope. But what if he made the connection that sometimes that hope actually enabled some of the murders? And maybe he shouldn't trust it as blindly as he does? I'll cover this in more detail in another comment.

That's what could have happened. Instead, the lack of addressing Keebo's personal issues makes the survivors look like hypocrites, especially Himiko, and pretty much destroys the message of V3.

Chapter 6 comes by, and suddenly everyone cares about Keebo, and Himiko suddenly likes Keebo. And Keebo decides that the differences between them are nothing to be ashamed of, and it's supposed to be happy and all, but...

Himiko: There's a big wall between objects and humans, but you're still our friend, Keebo.

What a load of crap, Himiko. You probably just realized Keebo could kill you and decided maybe you should be nicer to him. Heck, even that sentence just screams "I'll never acknowledge you as a person but it's okay because we're friends :)" it's supposed to be sweet, but it's the exact opposite. It's disgusting. Especially when she's also the one who told Keebo with a straight face that killing himself is the only way he can be useful.

Oh, and, to add insult to injury, none of them even consider that maybe Keebo saved them at the end of his own free will. Like, yeah, they were told he was erased, but wouldn't you want to believe that your friend was still alive somewhat? Nope, instead it could only be the audience. So clearly, they didn't value him as much as they say they did. It's like they only decided he was their friend after he almost got them all killed.

I won't deny that Keebo's pretty much a Blandy McBlanderson. He's pretty one-note for the majority of the game, so it's understandable that not many are drawn to him. And I understand this is probably invoked in-universe for the sake of being an audience surrogate… or more like the audience is telling him to be a Blandy McBlanderson. But, still! Where Keebo shines isn't really what he does in-game. It's what he doesn't do. What he could do. What he can't do because of his role.

Keebo's actions (or lack thereof)

I've been trying to figure out for a long time why Kokichi, Himiko, and Tenko were always so mean to Keebo even though he literally does nothing wrong. And no one else would stand up for Keebo, one of the nicest students among them. Many people stood up for Gonta. People stood up for Shuichi. Not always, but they still did. No one stands up for Kokichi or Miu (except Gonta). But they gave the others reasons to dislike them. Miu is rude and vulgar, and Kokichi is always trying to go against the others and lies all the time. But Keebo? He just wants to help everyone. He tries to encourage them. So why does he get brushed off by even the nicest of characters like Shuichi and Kaito? Shuichi is there to support Himiko and Gonta. But when Keebo is having an existential crisis (the hydraulic press and electrohammer), Shuichi's just like "yup. Sucks to be you, Keebo." And no one bats an eye when he's used as a battering ram, or forced to participate in a seance only to be kicked out shortly after. I thought there had to be some sort of logical explanation. But then I finally realized:

There was no good reason. They don't understand the seriousness of Keebo's dilemma, and don't try to. They don't see how important it is to him that he's acknowledged by everyone else as a person, and not simply as a robot. They don't understand just how much the bullying hurts him.

Let's talk about some of the other specifics regarding his abuse. There's so much abuse. At least 50 different times, and I was being very particular about what counted as Keebo Abuse™. I only counted moments where he reacted negatively to something that someone says about/to him. I don't think I counted moments of paranoia like with Shuichi in the beginning of chapter 4. Anyways, I think he beats Mikan by a longshot in terms of being the Ultimate Bully Victim.

Himiko is the worst offender for Keebo Abuse™, and this is what made me like her even less. People say she doesn't really mean it, or she's joking, but what part of "the only way you can be useful is if you kill yourself" sounds like a joke? Not even Kokichi has stooped this low, and his insults always felt like he just wanted to get a rise out of Keebo. Of course, that doesn't excuse him, but he's far more of an entertaining character than Himiko is, so...

Oh, but there is ONE thing Kokichi does that I cannot forgive. Remember in chapter 4 how Kokichi asks if tears would make Keebo short circuit? That means up until that point, he COULDN'T have known Keebo was waterproof. So why does he tell Gonta to use Keebo as a battering ram to break the water tank in chapter 2 when he doesn't even know if Keebo's waterproof? Either Kokichi actually knew Keebo was waterproof, or he didn't and just assumed he was. So if it's the latter, that's pretty messed up. What was he gonna do if Keebo died because of that? It's kinda funny though because Gonta would be the culprit again and it'd be Kokichi's fault again.

Then there's Tenko, saying that robots don't have feelings, or taunting Keebo by saying a robot wouldn't understand why a parasol is necessary to feel like a celebrity. And Korekiyo asking Keebo what exactly his talent is since he's not even good with computers, to which Kokichi responds that his existence is the only Ultimate thing about him.

Now as much as I rag on the humans for Keebo's treatment, they're not the only ones at fault. Clearly, Keebo could've tried harder to express himself. He could've just opened up if his identity was so important to him. But he didn't, and I believe there's a good explanation for this.

There's two possibilities here, the first being that, like Keebo said, it's dangerous to expose your weaknesses to an equal. Normally, I'd suspect that that's just an excuse, but Keebo's behavior definitely supports that this isn't the case. And the implication is actually really sad. Keebo thinks the others will try to hurt him using his weaknesses. That's why he only trusted Shuichi (when he decides to spend time with Keebo, anyway). Shuichi says insensitive things, but he honestly wants to help Keebo. He doesn't ever say things with the intent to hurt him.

Keebo is incredibly insecure, and it shows by how he calls everyone out on what he perceives as robophobic remarks. It actually seems like he gets more paranoid as the game progresses. He's always fishing for compliments, too, by boasting about his functions. When he does end up being useful, he tries to play it up so he gets more praise. He tries to make himself look more reliable. He's actually aware that he's pretty unreliable because he's the one who relies on others for validation. One of the bad options for his Harmonious Heart has him stating as such. And he thinks it's self-centered to think that Shuichi could help him. So I think that also plays a part in Keebo's silence. That's just how low his self-esteem is.

That's just one possibility, though. As for the other possibility as to why Keebo doesn't say anything about his feelings…

Ki-bo has to deal with bullying from the snide Ouma, who never misses an opportunity to mock him, calling him an "azuki-washing robot" or a "robotic dustpan", and saying "his breath smells like gasoline" regardless of what moves his motor. Ki-bo is living sad days, with his pride in tatters, his personal identity on the brink of collapse and suffering unspeakable robophobia nonstop…

This is a passage from Keebo's artbook profile, and proof that Keebo is indeed very hurt by the remarks made by his classmates. But why does he never say anything about it? Keebo is totally the kind of guy who would mope in a corner, based on his reactions to all the "robophobia."

Actually, even then, his reactions are a bit odd. He always calls someone out, but never presses further. He does this every single time. Don't you think he'd get more frustrated with each instance?

I believe he's internalizing all of his negative emotions... but not necessarily because he wants to.

It's his inner voice.

Think about it. With Keebo's personality, he seems like he'd lecture anyone if he felt he needed to. But whenever he tries to, he's shot down by Kokichi or Himiko or someone, and he just gives up after that. The only time he successfully lectures someone is when Shuichi spends time with him. When it's just the two of them. Others have no problem expressing their feelings in front of the others. In fact, I think almost everyone does so at some point. But Keebo just tries to encourage people, and never really reveals much about himself beyond superficial things, even though he makes such a big deal out of his desire to be treated like an equal. Isn't that a bit suspect?

That's where his inner voice comes in. Keebo says that whenever he's lost, his inner voice guides him. And it says "Hope moves forward." This is the important part. The audience tells Keebo to keep pressing forward, despite whatever he may be feeling. In other words, he doesn't have time to wallow in self-pity or whatever. Rather, he feels he CAN'T do that. Chances are, he's feeling more on the inside than he's letting on because his inner voice tells him it's not necessary to worry about that.

In fact, Kodaka all but states that this is the case.

"Whenever he faces conflict or indecision, he listen to a voice in his brain for unknown reasons and it tells him what to do. His friends write it off as half-jokes, but for Ki-bo it's huge source of support and a metaphorical compass leading him out of harsh situations."

It's a huge source of support for Keebo, which can mean so many things, including that it might be the only reason why he hasn't cracked.

People have accused me of projecting onto Keebo. People say it's not nearly as bad as I make it out to be. That has been the case with other characters, but it's definitely not the case here. It's plain as day: Keebo is treated like garbage, and he's well aware of it. Why do you think Angie was able to brainwash him so easily? She treated him the way he wanted to be treated. He says so when you talk to him after the student council is formed. Granted, he was brainwashed, so he might have been exaggerating, but there had to be a kernel of truth in what he says:

Keebo: Angie and Atua care about me. (or something along those lines) While everyone else treated me like junk...

What does all this mean? Well, it means that either Keebo is a saint, or he is harboring darker feelings inside that he cannot or chooses not to talk about…

EDIT: Yes, Keebo also believed Angie could actually hear Atua and that she was essentially just like him. They both have an inner voice of sorts. So that's something they have in common. And, considering his past experiences up to that point (battering ram and such), he probably wouldn't hesitate to support Angie's cause because he actually found someone he could relate to. And on top of that, she actually treated him like a person. At least, that's why I think we can infer based on what he says.

The real Keebo?

At the end of chapter 5, Keebo says some interesting things. First, he says the silence is quite refreshing, referring to how he can't hear his inner voice anymore. Now, why would he say it's refreshing? Perhaps there were times he wanted to act on his own, but didn't because his inner voice told him to do something else?

He also says "my will is now my own." And he emphasizes that his decision to destroy the academy is "his decision, his will."

He isn't distraught when he loses his inner voice. In fact, he's more than happy to act on his own. He only seems to be weak-willed and indecisive when he has his inner voice. Wouldn't that imply that his inner voice is more restrictive than we thought?

Note how assertive/aggressive Keebo is in chapter 6. He makes his stance perfectly clear, and isn't afraid to challenge Shuichi if he thinks something is off (even if it's mostly Keebo jumping to conclusions due to his single-mindedness). He's willing to destroy the academy at the risk of killing his friends. There's such a drastic change in personality that it leads me to wonder if we even knew Keebo at all. And then look at how he acts after he gets his inner voice back. He feels incredibly guilty, and immediately says what he did was wrong. But what if he was only feeling guilty because his inner voice was telling him he was wrong?

Now, I don't think everything about Keebo was fake. There's a possibility that he was malfunctioning during chapter 6. Regardless, I think we can say his desires and his feelings were real. But his responses are another thing entirely. He's easily influenced by what others say while he can hear his inner voice. Izuru even says that he tends to rely on others in difficult situations.

Just look at how quickly he changes tunes in a single scene. When they first discover the Flashback Light, he says they shouldn't use it. But then after Kaito and Shuichi talk, he wants to use it. At first, he doesn't want to go into the Neo World Program, believing it to be dangerous, but then he's the first one (after Kokichi and Shuichi or whatever) to turn around and say they should do it.

Both of these are directly influenced by the audience, and Keebo even says it. Well, he says his inner voice told him, but the point of the matter is that Keebo wouldn't have agreed to those things if his inner voice didn't tell him to. At least, he wouldn't have agreed so easily. He'd need more persuasion as seen in chapter 6.

Keebo never once doubts his inner voice until the final trial. And that's boring. With everything that's happened, Keebo *should start to doubt his inner voice earlier on. Like in chapter 2. If Keebo was present when Kaito said maybe they should have watched those videos after all, and Keebo realizes what Kokichi was actually trying to do…

I'm assuming his inner voice reinforced his idea that they shouldn't watch the videos. If Keebo gets the idea that the murder happened because they didn't watch the videos, he might start to question how right his inner voice is, if only just a little bit.

In fact, Kokichi should have tried this from the start. Get Keebo to doubt his inner voice. I dunno why Kokichi just brushes it off, since these are awfully specific "radio signals". Doesn't even wonder where they're coming from, or if that means they're being watched… But I digress.

His inner voice always leads him towards hope. But what if Keebo starts to see the flaws in following that hope? What if he realizes that maybe this hope is what's allowing these bad things to happen? There'd need to be more instances where things were allowed to happen because he followed his inner voice. Or if he's under the impression that that's the case.

What if he started not listening to his inner voice as often? What if the audience decided to take control sooner? How would the rest of the cast react? Maybe they could've learned a lot of things sooner if something like this happened. Because if Keebo was being controlled, that would imply that someone is watching them. And someone is actively telling Keebo what to do. And that someone wants him to only do things that actually enable the killings.

It'd probably be easy to draw the conclusion that his ahoge is actually an antenna, so they could just remove that and Keebo would be fine.

And then Keebo would realize that this "hope" he had been following was wrong.

Fast forward to the final trial, where Tsumugi tells them to vote for either hope or despair, and Keebo outright rejects hope. Because this hope isn't hope at all. But he doesn't want to settle for despair, either, so… he'd probably be unsure what to do, but that would be when Shuichi cuts in and says they should refuse to vote.

Hire me Spike Chunsoft

Other potential plot points

Why does no one ever wonder why the heck a robot is in a killing game? They don't know he's an audience surrogate. It makes no sense for Keebo to be there when they could have another human. Apparently they do think Keebo is capable of murder (he has been accused a few times, not just by Kokichi), but even then they could just have another human. They were able to get 15 humans, getting one more would be no problem.

I think this is one instance where the traitor plotpoint would've REALLY worked out here. Because Keebo is perfect traitor material (he kinda is the traitor). Like I said above, why is there a robot in a killing game?

You can control a robot. Robots can do lots of things humans can't. His eyes could be video cameras, or maybe the mastermind is controlling him or something. Maybe he has a bunch of dangerous functions. I dunno, just think of SOMETHING! At least THEN they'd have a believable reason to treat him so poorly.

And the fact no one takes his inner voice thing seriously really bugs me, too. Like, not even Kokichi seemed to think that it might be more than just something stupid. I mean… wouldn't people naturally think that the inner voice has to be coming from somewhere? I know I did. And Kokichi said it was probably just a radio signal or something. Isn't what Keebo says his inner voice is telling him oddly specific for a random radio signal? And if it was a radio signal, wouldn't that mean there might be a way to contact someone with one of Miu's inventions?

I swear, for as smart as some of these students are, they're really dumb sometimes. Kokichi thinks like ten steps ahead of everyone else, but he doesn't even think about this? Or, if he does, he definitely doesn't show it. He just writes off Keebo as "weird" on his whiteboard.

Ki-bo might say he is learning a lot about the world, but the way he talks and acts is very stiff and unflexible, so he lacks the basis for decision-making his friends have.

This is the interesting part. He lacks the basis for decision-making that his friends have, but what does that mean, exactly? And is that necessarily a bad thing?

I think, if Keebo didn't have his inner voice, he would have made drastically different decisions. He is incredibly pragmatic, as we see in chapter 6. And, I think that pragmatic attitude might have been extremely beneficial for the killing game. He might have actually agreed with Kokichi more often, even. Well, I suppose Kokichi's roundabout way of saying things would still make Keebo wary of him, so I dunno.

What I'm extremely curious about, however, is how he'd react to being ignored and insulted without his inner voice to support him. Because this, combined with his pragmaticism, could have very interesting results.

Keebo keeps getting made fun of because of his failure to understand certain social cues or for being unable to read the air. This is because he's still learning about the world, as the quote above states. This is where that quote becomes extremely important. No one explains to him what he's doing wrong. Therefore, he has to come to his own conclusions, and figure things out for himself. Do you see where this is going?

I want consequences!! Where's the payoff for all the bullying? Was it all purely for comedy? Was the ending supposed to be the payoff? The irony that the guy everyone thought was useless ended up saving the day? Because that's a pretty crappy payoff. So here's my idea:

Something bad could happen because Keebo takes action based on incorrect conclusions. Because no one bothered to try and teach him about the world. Because he was neglected.

Kokichi accuses him of not being able to understand emotions due to being a robot? He'll prove otherwise. People think his functions are lackluster? He'll get upgrades. And maybe, just maybe… if he's desperate enough to prove he's not just a robot confined to his programming, he'll break one of the Laws of Robotics. All just so he can finally be acknowledged as an equal.

The best part about this is that whatever happens, it would be completely preventable. If the humans bothered to explain things to Keebo, he would've learned and started to socialize better, hopefully allowing the others to take him more seriously. If Keebo just talked about how important it is that he's acknowledged as an equal, maybe the others would've started to change how they treated him.

In conclusion, Keebo had so much potential to make things more interesting, but that potential was completely wasted.

Also he deserved better and should've survived.

EDIT: Also the fact that two students in bonus mode (Twogami and Sakura) are nicer to him than anyone in the main game is really depressing.

Damn, you really like Keebo a lot, and it's clear him dying affected you deeply. Great posts.

Also, despair. I can tell you really cared for him. IMO it's a testament to how good this series is, when it comes to characters.

If there's one thing I can say, it's that the game definitely did its job in making me feel despair. You should've seen how I reacted to Kaito's execution. He was my second favorite, so I had been bracing myself for his death since the moment he became Shuichi's bro... then Keebo got caught up in it.

It was so unexpected and made me freak out. That's why it's my favorite execution (that and Kaito died on his terms).

Thanks, I needed to be depressed today.

I already got depressed from a different post, I'm just passing it on to you <3

Amazing write-up! I agree with a lot of this.

Yea... considering Keebo's unique existance... I could see Twogami's case being there for Keebo as a "shared unique existace" or something like that... suffering in arms or however it goes... Sakura however seems... unexpected, I don't know why nor can I point to it... just is...

Your writeup is both excellent and a tad depressing. Good job.

...Now I want a Kiibo spinoff damn it

Thanks!

...Now I want a Kiibo spinoff damn it

I know, right!? Keebo would've been perfect for the protagonist slot, really. Yeah, there's the whole "audience" thing, but you know what? One of the comments scrolling by in the final trial said "What have we been doing?" It sounds a bit odd, right? It could just be someone complaining about the whole thing being a waste of time, but it could also be someone questioning whether or not this is okay. Plus, Tsumugi said the audience took a majority vote to control Keebo. That must mean it wasn't unanimous, right? So there might have been people who didn't agree with it. Also, once it was revealed that Keebo's inner voice was in fact the audience, you could easily switch over to Shuichi.

But yeah. I wanna know what Keebo was originally made for. WAS he made by Team DR? Or was he made by someone else, and stolen and repurposed? What if he was originally made to infiltrate the killing game and destroy it from the inside? And Team DR figured it out and rewrote his character as a result?

Because, no matter how you think about it, putting a robot in a killing game doesn't make sense unless there's something you're gonna do with it. I mean, we know he's the audience surrogate, but maybe he wasn't always meant to be that?

Plus what the heck is that special function he mentioned in his first FTE with Shuichi?! He said he hoped Shuichi could see it someday, so I can't imagine it has anything to do with his battle mode... or blowing himself up.

WAS he made by Team DR? Or was he made by someone else, and stolen and repurposed? What if he was originally made to infiltrate the killing game and destroy it from the inside? And Team DR figured it out and rewrote his character as a result?

I'm pretty certain it's the latter purpose because even from the first chapter Kiibo has functions to detect poisonous air and coincidentally Kokichi's lab also has gas masks, which suggests Kiibo's true function was as a war machine but he also at some point got a 'personality'.

That he also sometimes talks down to people suggests his AI was intentionally developed so he could act on his own in a commander's capacity like in chapter 6, and that he's literally the only character in the entire story who can be re-written implies the truth of his background has to be very important since he 'died' before, and coincidentally the Ultimate Hunt as narrated by Shuichi 'eventually' had them cornered as if Kiibo's 'death' might be the reason why the students sealed their talents to avoid certain death.

I've also kind of realized that Kiibo's overreaction to some of the milder jokes about him suggests that his AI is particularly child-like especially with how curious he is about everything, and that's pretty suspicious when his personality for the most part doesn't seem to fit with how serious he gets in chapter 6...in fact, how 'old' is Kiibo even?

Why do you think Angie was able to brainwash him so easily? She treated him the way he wanted to be treated.

(so I don't really completely buy the "Angie brainwashed everyone" thing but that's a topic for another thread, at another time. In any case...)

Aside from just "Angie was nice to him," there's also the issue of Angie talking about Atua all the time. Most of the rest of the class sees that as a reason to be distrustful of her, because she just does whatever she likes and won't take responsibility for it. Keebo however, according to a conversation you can have with him at some point, thinks that Angie really does hear a voice that tells her what to do, because it seems similar to his own inner voice. So not only does that make her seem not suspicious to him, it actually probably makes him think that he can relate to her (thus there's less difference between the two of them than between him and most of the rest of the class), and so he joins her for that reason as well.

Of course like most things with both Keebo and Angie, this doesn't really go anywhere. But it's a sort of interesting reason for him to trust her!

Ah, yeah, I forgot about that. Well, not really, but I also figured most people could draw that conclusion so...

i like this theory a lot.

i also think k1-b0 views a lot of his conversations as transactional (i.e., they're largely a way for him to obtain information about human behaviour) and angie is a fountain of interesting customs and dogma and so on. it scans to me that he would imprint on her a little bit.

There's a lot I want to say but I'm not nearly done re-checking everything about the game, so here's a bullet point list:

1) Kiibo was one of the better characters of the game to me, currently ranking 3rd somehow, behind Kokichi and Korekiyo. The robophobia gets annoying sometimes but it's not exactly unjustified for him to feel put upon considering some characters don't even seem to care about his well-being...The reason why I say he's one of the best is that you might not see it the first time around, but Kiibo actually develops and slides back pretty subtly over the chapters, and his doubts coming to a head in chapter 5 are very painful as a result as well as how he expresses clear doubt in hope continuing but had no choice but to proceed.

...actually, when I read it like this it feels like a big part of why Kiibo got such a high ranking must be due to how he's one of the few characters to me who keeps using his head? Haha! That sucks.

2) He's got some delightful sass at times, like when Tenko asks him if he's a female or male and practically rolls his eyes like it's been asked a million times. My favorite has to be the one where he doubts Kaede could have killed Rantaro with her trap though, because he went for his 'You people are crazy' sprite for that

3) Just like with Kokichi, his background seems to be pretty complicated. Why does a robot who's supposed to be a 'student' have the capability to upgrade himself? Was Iidabashi even the one who had truly made him? Doesn't it seem weird that he had an 'accident' and lost his memories? Also, is it just me or did Kokichi seem to know more about Kiibo than he knows himself, what with egging him to use a rocket punch, calling his backstory lame as if Kiibo's actually a lot cooler, saying his air detecting function was for use with poisonous gases and knowing he isn't going to die from being thrown against a tank?

4) For calling Kokichi awful Kiibo seems to think about him a lot! It's also odd but even the first time around it always felt to me like Kokichi was attempting to communicate something to Kiibo but he wasn't getting through since Kiibo had a complex about needing to be human to feel welcome when he's far more awesome as he truly is in chapter 6

5) That name of his and how this 'accident' happened a few years back is particularly suspicious...I feel like Kiibo is heavily linked to the Ultimate Hunt? Also, call it a wild guess but considering Kiibo and Kokichi were together I'm pretty sure that Kiibo's true identity has something to do with Kokichi's true identity, in fact these two are more similar than one might think with how they're constantly beaten up by the story, care about the cast in spite of everything, aren't afraid to go for extreme measures when needed, rely on logic in spite of being very emotional, are pretty curious about everything, on top of Kiibo being quite childish with making up a less lame backstory...It should be noted by the way that if my guess for the main inspiration for Kokichi's character is correct, the same also applies for Kiibo

6) This next one might sound like denial but I don't actually think Kiibo is dead? That's like the primary rule of fiction, if you didn't see the character die that means they survived no matter how improbable it looks

7) Kiibo's treatment at the end where the survivors would rather believe in the 'outside world' than Kiibo's will is about 50% of why I hate the epilogue and don't care about them in the slightest. HE DESERVED BETTER KODAKA ಠ_ಠ

8) Also, I'm going to be doing Arcana guesses for these posts and my pick for Kiibo is Temperance, representing the excessive conflict Kiibo has at the start clashing with everyone else and focusing too much on being human at the cost of focus and generally failing both at being a human and a robot and the resolve he develops at the end when he loses his inner voice and has time to contemplate what he really wants, finally deciding that he might not be able to fight alongside everyone like a human but he's already great as is, achieving harmony with his own identity

Kiibo deserved to survive far more than Himiko or Maki, and I will forever be pissed that he died at the last second with his sacrifice barely being acknowledged.

Kiibo reminds me of this page in Medaka Box. He is like the last phrase fully realised as a character (I know he adheres to the Laws of Robotics but still). Fun fact I learnt: the robot pictured also has Kibou in her name and her model is called ‘Hope.' Scary coincidences.

My initial feelings with Kiibo wasn't ‘meh' but it wasn't exactly love at first sight too. Despite his talent, he appears very unassuming at first. Heck, even his introduction was overshadowed by Kokichi. I loved his gimmick from the start though because I've never actually seen the teenage robot trope portrayed like him, especially since we learn that he is completely average despite his talent. Robots are usually portrayed as super capable. This is probably the only piece of media I've ever encountered where ‘robophobia' is a thing with a robot character and it's seen in a comedic light (Granted I'm not into futuristic comedy shows like Futurama where I assume robot jokes may be more common). Despite me not thinking much of him initially, he was pretty entertaining and I found myself liking his interactions with the cast, especially with Miu (they had a kub together :') ) and Kokichi (maybe not so much but that UDTP graduation event :'( ).

Okay, maybe I could have used less bullying since I hate bullying, especially when it's not even mentioned as a bad thing in the narrative. The characters also seem less human because they seem to treat Kiibo in a mean-spirited manner just because he wasn't human, especially during that battering ram incident. If I was there, I would be so concerned for Kiibo and at least ask him how's he feeling after that. Yet none of the cast did that. I guess I can understand verbal bullying in the situation they're in but I don't think anything can excuse throwing your classmate like that without even asking whether he would be okay with it. That went beyond bullying.

Putting that aside, I feel that Kiibo really shone in Chapter 6. I grew to appreciate him more as I thought about how V3-6's revelations affected his prior actions and how relevant he is to the bigger context of the game and its themes. It made me realise that for a side character, Kiibo had his own well-realised mini-arc which culminated to V3-6's events. It made me realise the weight of his insecurities and that it was more than just a running gag. Constantly trying to proof his usefulness, only for him to be repeatedly bullied for being too human for a robot (which was not a fault of his), which only worsens his self-doubt issues and yet his ‘inner voice' urges him to remain hopeful and positive, even with everything going against him.

And then, the sixth trial comes along with the end reveal that not only was he fictional and thus, essentially useless in the context of ‘reality' (proving all his insecurities in the worst way possible) but that ‘inner voice' that has always been his beacon of hope was merely a representation of an audience's popular vote, one that has consistently used ‘hope' to continue the killing game. Everything about Kiibo, everything he believed in and probably most of his major decisions were all just a lie.

Recently, I thought about the possibility of Kiibo being a better as a protagonist and the above is exactly why I think so. Kiibo's existence also gives the most Truman Show sort of vibe imo with his thoughts and actions being determined by an audience or a mastermind which made him slowly doubt himself more and more throughout the game. It's such a missed opportunity that someone who fits the lies and fiction themes so well didn't end up as protagonist despite being teased as one so much in-game and in real life (the Japanese subtitle literally references the audience which Kiibo is a representative of!!! And he shares a spot in the 'Lie' steam card with Kokichi) but I digress. I appreciate V3 and DanganRonpa in general for giving us such complex side characters tho.

Btw, Kokichi and Kaito didn't have the most heartbreaking hydraulic press scene imo. It was Kiibo…that look on his face when he realised nothing considered him living was just… I think that was the Chapter 5 event that truly crushed my heart :(

Edit: The part about the bullying so that it'll be less of a mess.

Honestly, I didn't care much for Keebo, he was kind of completely ignored by the writers until case 6 (and the fact he decided to bomb the school in the case only lowered my opinion of him) which I wouldn't mind if I liked his character, but I wasn't a big fan of his character either. His ftes try to give the message of "You shouldn't try to change to fit more" but then the message gets fucked by the fact he then goes to have his backstory erased, he was kind of nice throughout the game but not really that memorable to me.

K1-B0 is my second favorite character out of the whole series (Komaeda being the first. Don't judge me.). I remember I didn't like him at first because I was afraid he was going to be evil from his japanese VA being Morishige's Japanese VA. However, after seeing the demo and a few fan comics, I started to love him.

I really love that he's the extreme of what you see in robots in TV. Instead of saying once in while that he wants to be human, he goes off on a tangent if anyone says that he's less than a human. Thankfully, he doesn't do that all the time or it would be annoying than endearing. You also understand him because you've got characters like Ouma who treat him like garbage and Himiko who say that the only thing useful he can do is blow up.

The other thing is that he is both confident in the small abilities that he can do but at the same time, he feels a bit useless compared to the others. He's kind of like Hajime in that sense.

The only problem I have for him is that he doesn't get that much screentime.

I don't know, up until the 6th chapter he was just kinda...there I guess. Occasionally he'd be brought up now and then, but that was the only thing making me remember that he existed.

His whole character for me was really just the "Robophobia" thing, and his only real motivation I noticed was him wanting to be less normal.

Someone argued on this post that it would make sense for him to be like that since he was basically the cameraman, but even so, it still feels as though he was a wasted character.

I don't think he was a waste whatsoever but I do agree that his role does basically require him to stay in the background for a bit too long.

As far as being normal it's less of a motavation and more of a insecurity. Problem is the game plays it off as a joke for so long that when it becomes a serious issue it's really jarring

​ Ki-Bo is quite the odd character. Or at least one of the oddest. He has quite a lot going on in the game and in the same time he doesn't have that much, which I'll come around in a bit.

The way he's revealed as the MC on the poster (minus meta stuff) is to be honest quite a good move to trick people that we get kinda the new protagonist who seems like "Robo Naegi" (that was literally the surname given to him or at least one of them) when they seemed early on to give some material but not too much as well, which I feel is a smart move when you just announce another completely different MC afterwards of course it's DR so they had to ruin that by just doing the reverse of what the poster did IMO

I didn't mind him much in pre-release, apart from design cuz I'm a big sucker for everything robotic and cyberpunk kinda, but I was still wondering : "We have a robot who looks like Naegi and is a robot literally named with the japanese word for HOPE in a game who is apparently in the themes of Truth/Lies that moves to a better dealt with, but safer, theme of REALITY/FICTION", but that part of themes comes out later... maybe too much late for what it is since it's really that far in the game that Ki-Bo gets a bit of a spotlight, even if not much, but that made for what I consider the best moment in the game for me. Before that, well, there isn't much unfortunately, he's mostly a background character for most of the game and doesn't get that much attention. To his credit, he's very active in trials and does point a lot of stuff in discussions, moving them forward logically (most of the times when the game doesn't just push on BELIEF for dumb reasons), and I don't mind him being the butt of the joke that much unlike most people, though it would've been better I feel if it goes more than just his persecution complex (though my terrible sense of humor once again didn't mind it as much of course). His FTE are awesome for me. I don't think I laughed as much for anything in this series than his FTEs. We don't hear that much from his past for example with the professor Michael Bay btw he has, but hot damn those things with him wanting to do an idol business, asking if you want to hear him singing and he just shouts at you, literally, it's hilarious.

So we get into the story, he gets some lines here and here, foreshadowing, that odd but ...interesting dynamic he has with Iruma (too bad he doesn't get more, and even though I have issues with his character, getting Shinguuji and Ki-Bo having a dynamic at some point would do wonders for both of them, as Kermit said on his own comment). I did say he doesn't do much, but still seeing him being that awkward robot who is just too innocent (when he keeps that ahoge of course) still makes me put a smile to my face and to how he reacts. For example, he makes for the best moment in Chapter 5 when he wants to write a letter and beg Ouma so that he stops his scheme. People also brought up how it's kinda weird that there isn't really anyone really supporting him, even after he for example wishes to help everyone and do various things for that (photography of the seance) apart from that Iruma dynamic (and even then she is more interested in the "body", in some ways), so that was a point that could've worked better in general (not that it's only the case for Ki-Bo.. it's already the case for 98% of the characters). And then Chapter 6 comes when we get to Ki-Bo's greatest moment, and that is his reveal as the audience surrogate in the final hours of the game after an already damn-long trial. Now, this piece of the game I consider great for many reasons even if there are some places where it falls apart, but most of it I consider good, even for this game. Like, we get a good revelation for the inner voice, which in that term makes Ki-Bo the protagonist in-universe (the one who obtains at the end True Hope, being the self-insert of the ones watching the show ~~which in terms completely destroys the reason why and that's a clever idea to set him as such but not as the one character we end up following at all. Of course, some problems arise with that like the fact that the change of protagonists doesn't make any sense (that's a talk I'm gonna elaborate more when the discussion regarding the concerned characters come), or how the audience sucks at using their RP machine. If Ki-Bo is supposed to be that Robo Naegi during the game, why doesn't he clashes a bit with Saihara in that case ? Imagine also how it would be funny to foreshadow the audience's involvement with moments like the cast finding Ki-Bo blocked in front of a wall for example.

V3 is very lazy on the terms of just repeating the exact formula over and over and that applies to literally everything in this game and for every chapter, almost for a few parts, and this is one of them : the game deliberately puts back at this moment of the game a DR1 rehash of "if you vote for Hope/this one person then you get X and if you vote Despair/Junko, then you get Y" and the way it gets done can be frustrating for some that it just gets, again, like a part of a former game, even deliberately, but here they manage to just go on again on hope/despair... only to tear it down with the "Rejecting that hope", as it adresses how of a shit theme it is, thanks to Ki-Bo bringing that point and showing (with the lie mechanic at the end) that in this context it doesn't solve anything and that not choosing any side at all can work in that context as well of course the writers looooooooooooove to not commit to any idea they have even with a risk of pissing off your audience with zero survivors, so let's just literally go against this very idea and making the one coming up with that idea and this risk to suffer zero consequences of what he decided, along with the ones who got along with it. Let's just have hope in the end despite not saying that at all, lol ahem. At least Ki-Bo still commited to the idea that he had to sacrifice himself like it was told. Still hurts, but at least, that's what it means to stay true to a word I guess ! That's a gesture I'm gonna appreciate at least.

Overall, he's fun, he has a great design and top-notch voice acting in both languages, it's just sooo soothing to hear to me, and he makes for hilarious moments overall in the game and is nice to have around when he contributes. The twist for him could've made for more in the game in general, but it still made for my favorite moment in the game and that still made him for one of my favorites of this game, even if there was more to do with than what we got with Kiiboy.

Now, that makes it clear, the true moral of V3's story is : Twitch Plays Pokemon is EVIL. That was Kodaka's masterplan all alon-

Best bro

Also un luckiest bro: https://www.reddit.com/r/danganronpa/comments/7yez7g/k1b0_is_ultimate_bullied_kid_full_v3_spoilers/?st=JDU8FIUX&sh=0ae2ebdd

Keebo is a good character. He really stands out a lot for being the first robot student in a danganronpa killing game yet that's not the only thing to evaluate about him. Now the principal point regarding Keebo: his role in the story. Honestly, I find Keebo's role in v3 OK to Good but I kinda wished they did more with him. He doesn't shine a lot untill later chapters and briefly did some help in chapter 3 for discover the culprit. Though, I must say, he becomes a badass in chapter 6 in not only trying to destroy the academy but also in helping the other students aswell and trying to motivate them. Something that is a bit annoying of him is the constantly thinking that most of stuff is robophobia since there are times that it was kinda ridiculous like during chapter 5 trial where he says the press didn't stopped cuz he was a robot and it was robophobic (This also could've be used for his development tbh). Overall, Keebo is a good character. Though, more could've done to him for make him stand out as a character in terms of development and personality, not only design cuz he barely do something of importance in chapter 1 and 2 (Even Keebo's Alibi truth bullet didn't get used during the class trial).

He a gud boye

It's really funny how Keebo complains a lot about robophobia and nobody listens to him. Yet in ch6 we learn that the outside world is doing this to them because they don't consider the cast to be real people and thought their struggles and suffering were meaningless cause they are artificially made. In fact it's baffling how some people literally stops caring about the characters despite bawling their eyes out at every death previously.

So you could say the outside world is fictionphobic and Keebo's character was there to represent and explore the theme of racism

I still need to read Keebo's free time events, so I'll be focusing on my impressions from a story perspective.

Keebo is sort of interesting to me in how he relates to being a robot, compared to other students. He touches on this mainly in the last chapter, insisting that he wanted to avoid being different than others, purposefully ignoring the upgrades available to him in his lab. This makes sense, given his concerns about people hating him for being a robot-he's super self conscious and trying to fit in. The fact that he decided to take them up and accept his role as the Ultimate Robot tells me that he accepts his differences and embraces them. It's a cool moment for Keebo, and probably my favorite from him throughout the game.

Aside from that, Keebo is alright. TBH, his paranoia about people being Robophobic could kind of be annoying, and for the most part, it doesn't feel like he has massive contributions. He's kind of there for the most part-which is better than constantly causing problems like Kokichi, but doesn't do a lot to make him contribute to the overall plot, though when he does, it is notable. Unfortunately, this includes being made into one of Angie's stooges in Ch. 3, and he doesn't have Gonta's gullibility or Himiko's apathy to give him a reason for it. It makes him look stupid and gullible, and it's annoying that he gets through that whole thing without any fallout or repercussions, especially since he had the least reason beside not wanting people to die (Not that he's alone, though when I get to Tsumugi for this, it will be a bit different for... obvious reasons).

In terms of overall character relations... his most notable positive relationship is with Miu, but it's a bit difficult for me to remember specific ways to describe it. All I remember was that he was really her only friend due to her attitude, and that says a lot in itself. When it comes to everyone else, it almost feels like the rest of the game actively hates Keebo. A lot of people are indifferent to him, happy to treat him like an object or deride him for no reason. I don't find Kokichi funny as is, but endlessly bugging Keebo makes it even worse. For whatever reason, Himiko is the most blatant about it, saying cruel things like he should die in their place since he doesn't count as a person-WHILE HE'S IN THE SAME ROOM. It actually fits that's she's part of the survivors, which leads me to my next point, the ending.

The twist that Keebo is actually a camera for the outside world, controlled by the audience. Wording it like a 'voice' is kind of misleading, but it's Keebo's interpretation, rather than something definitive like Kaede lying about important spots to investigate in her investigation, so it works well enough. As for the impact, it falls flat for me. Keebo being the Ultimate Hope is meant to mock the series' usual tropes, with his similarities to Makoto and Hajime, but the reveal would have worked better if Keebo was the main character. Being revealed to be the culmination of the audience that is trying to guide Keebo through the game would hit a lot more, rather than just randomly jumping between character POV's at the last minute. (Kodaka would probably have had to double down on the fact that the audience is the enemy of the game, but it would at least feel less like a one of V3's out of nowhere plot twists)

Also, Hope and Despair are no longer words with definitions, but meaningless concepts that the writers no longer understand. Hope is not bad, playing into the hands of malicious monsters is bad. I do not buy Shuichi's view on the subject, especially when he made himself into a hypocrite at the expense of Keebo's life, with barely even a mention of their supposed FRIEND. The game can feel flat out ugly with how desperately it tries to mock its own tropes, and Keebo feels more of a victim of that than his in-game choice to sacrifice himself.

i don't know how much i have to contribute to the #elevatedkeebodiscourse happening herein, at least not much that hasn't already been said, but i'll give it a go.

i think there's something interesting, and not fully explored, in the way k1-b0 subverts the standard protagonist role. he has all these trappings of Generic Danganronpa Protagonist, mostly notably how often he stakes himself out as aggressively average. there is no more danganronpy thing than for a hero/ine to loudly decry any notion they may be even marginally unique or talented, and k1-b0 does this any chance he gets. we find out, of course, later in the game, that he's an in-universe protagonist of sorts -- that is, the audience of Danganronpa 53 experiences him as something like their new makoto, albeit one whose actions they control by consensus. (aside: if k1-b0 is the makoto of danganronpa v3, i love the idea that miu is something like his kyoko. it just tickles me.)

but however loudly average he may be, however many ahoges he may have, however blindly he might fight for the idea of 'hope' as though it's an actual measurable quantity and not a vague concept, there's a few critical differences between k1-b0 and our average protag. he's not human. he's NOT our protag (not even one of the top two). and maybe most interestingly to me... okay, how do i describe this?

there's a certain amount of blind faith any given cast puts into their protagonist. makoto met some token resistance in cases one and five but was otherwise regarded as a leader. hajime was accepted unquestioningly by one and all, even when they had reason to be suspicious of his identity. kaede and shuichi were both deified by the group at large during their respective playable tenures.

by comparison, the cast of v3 seems to distrust or outright dislike k1-b0, for reasons which are never fully explained. the guy's a perfectly pleasant danganronpa mid-carder; the cast is full of more abrasive personalities. if you wanted to reach, you could point to the fact that his being a robot ties him to their surroundings -- between the monokumas and the exisals, they're very evidently being tormented by robots -- but i don't think the game ever makes that connection explicit and it probably should. without a solid marker of why the cast is so antagonistic toward k1-b0 (who is low-key functioning in this pseudo-protagonist role where he should be automatically beloved), i'm kind of stranded to draw my own conclusions -- and the robot thing doesn't scan. three games in, i've had the benefit of interacting with alter-ego and mechamaru, characters who were largely treated as equals by their peers, so k1-b0's robotic nature just seems like a peccadillo of kodaka's sci-fi fetish as opposed to something inherently sinister.

my other main note on k1-b0 is that his participation in the central meta-fictional twist of the game raises more question than any other cast member. we know for a fact that he's actually a robot. so who made him? is his backstory fabricated like everyone else's? what's up with the scene of him in his 'street clothes' at the beginning? the easiest answer is that team danganronpa purpose-built him for the show, but then... why put him in a cast with the ultimate inventor, who could substantially alter his functionality? why give him the capability not only to not function as intended, but to actually destroy the school? why no failsafe? i know that picking apart plot holes in v3 is like shooting fish in a barrel but it seems especially egregious where k1-b0 is concerned.

anyway with all that said i like k1-b0 lol. he is cute.

K1B0 is an interesting, if somewhat bizarre case. He's the only student that's not a "real" person (ie, does not have a flesh and blood body), but he's also the avatar of the fictional audience within the game (as opposed the the real audience outside of the game). His personality is probably also the only one he's ever had, making him in some ways more "real" than the other characters...

From the outset, K1B0 seemed like a useful asset, possibly an all-in-one investigative tool... Then he goes out of his way to assure us that he does not have any useful abilities and the only thing setting him apart from the others is that his body is made of metal. His backstory justifies this a bit, particularly the story of him nearly killing his creator, which was part of why his strength is so limited and may be related to his reluctance to upgrade himself. If it wasn't for Miu making alterations to him, he probably would've been as useless as Tsumugi for most of the story.

Thankfully, Miu was there, and so he ends up being vital to making sure the thick-headed students of this killing game survive through use of his camera function and recording. I suppose we could argue that Miu did relatively little, considering he was already designed as a camera, but she's proven herself well enough with... Ok, getting side-tracked, back to K1B0.

While K1B0 is certainly a bit of a pushover for most of the game, being picked on by Kokichi and even used as a projectile in the second chapter, I'm doubt that's actually how he is. I suspect K1B0's actual personality is more in line with how he acts in chapter 6, maintaining a politeness and willingness to cooperate with the other students, but utterly ruthless when it comes to fighting despair and the kub krew (to the extent that K1B0's "hope" is practically the same as the "despair" of the old games).

The cooperativeness even has its limits, if you take too long to finish your investigation he will make good on his promise to blow up the school with everyone in it. It seems the audience is far more of a moderating force for him, very much acting like his "conscience", and their emergency override makes a good deal of sense.

Also, clearly K1B0 inherited Naegi's punchability aura, given how much everyone picks on him.

Kiibo is a character where I like what he turned out to be when compared to what it seemed like he might become pre-release. But looking back on him after completing the game, he feels a little disappointing.

Thinking back to the promotional material pre-release (or at least thinking back to how I remembered it), I didn't really like the idea of having a student who was a robot - there was a lot of talk about him as being a prison guard, or something similarly badass. Basically just becoming this overpowered or inhuman character - or at the very least becoming someone who was special enough to draw a lot of focus.

And so I was pleasantly surprised when he turned out to basically be kind of a wimpy background character. It was really refreshing, since the result was the robot being more painfully average than most of the cast.

But at the same time, that also seems like Kiibo's weakness. His FTEs go into his insecurities a little bit more, but overall, he does come off as a bit of a one-note character. Everyone picks on him, he accuses everyone of robophobia. And that's about it. Even near the end of the game, when he starts to become more plot-relevant, he still seems a bit more like a plot device than a character. Which almost seems like foreshadowing, really, that the character whose decisions are largely determined by internet poll comes off that way.

But even given that, it seems like there was more that could have been done with him.

Kiibo is my favourite V3 character, I was excited about him the moment his character design & talent was released since I find robot characters endearing.

Now another character I was excited for is Ouma cause again, I loved his design. Except then when I met both of them, I was disappointed that Ouma wasted no time picking on Kiibo leaving me there like, "oh.. it's the new Mikan/Saionji dynamic" which somewhat soured my first impression of Ouma.

The thing is, it wasn't just Ouma. As the game went on I realised no one was treating Kiibo well, I just wanted to give the poor robot a hug. He's trying his best while going through his little crisis of what exactly makes him an ultimate robot, is kind to everyone etc. and it just feels like no one ever acknowledges him or makes any real connection with him. (excluding his FTEs with Saihara)

Even when he helps out in investigations/trials whatever with his admittedly, pretty basic functions, he never gets thanked (from what I remember) and instead everyone just makes some comment about how mundane the feature is. Like, that recording saved you're asses from insect hell.

I will admit that Kiibo doesn't really do much for the first half or so of the game, which was also disappointing to me. Him going ham in chapter 6 was great though and I love how he looked all geared up.

Thennn the reveals in trial 6 come. Note that I'm not a fan of this trial as a whole and hate how it went, so I'm probably biased here. The audience insert reveal was cool and added another layer to poor Kiibob's identity crisis and then his whole Hope Robot thing was hype as hell only for it to be killed a minute later by Saihara explaining hope isn't the answer for them... and then he just gets shut down by Shirogane.

Him exploding at the end just hurt, it felt so unnecessary and I was already tired and annoyed at the long ass finale. You could've just let the poor bot live goddammit.

So overall, I feel like more could've been done with Kiibo. He's adorable and I love him but I was disappointed with how he was handled, especially no one being particularly nice to him throughout. At least there's UTDP...

Keebo is a weird case for me, i really dig his design and the voice work from both languages is really solid and being a robot is naturally interesting and i like what he adds to trials.

But he basically is just a background character through most of the game and only used for jokes and such and none of his issues feel like they were important in the narrative what so ever, It's not as bad as Tsumugi but it's close. As for for his role in the final chapter it was enjoyable even if his sacrifice seems a little unnecessary.

Overall i think he's simply okay he's far from the worst V3 has to offer (that's last week and next week) but he's also far from the best it has to offer as well.

I thought Keebo was just okay at the beginning. Pretty bland, passive personality for the most part, with a few DR-essential quirks. And then in Chapter 6 you learn why that is, and he serves as a major thematic/emotional fulcrum to boot. He's awesome.

K1-B0 was the character I went in to the game expecting to find the most annoying. In the end, he ended up being the character I was most indifferent to.

I don't hate him really, even if he got a little annoying at points. He whines a lot about nothing and it would have gotten far more grating than it did had he actually had real presence for the first half of the game. Ultimately though he's just the weird loner on the side of the cast who just pulls clues out of nowhere a couple of times. The most interesting thing about him to me was his "relationship" with Miu, though outside of him being the only one who seemed upset that she was dead that never really got expanded on much. I'm also surprised that it was never revealed that he was the Ultimate Electrician or something and kind of like how Souda gave himself a delinquent look, Kibo was pretending to be a robot to make people think he was cool.

I guess in a way it feels to me like the first thing they decided in V3 was the finale and that it would need a robot for an explosive ending. So K1-B0 was made and then they just have him sit around for 80% of the game waiting for his moment.

I guess I just never got interested or invested in his character. He was one of the last FTE's I did because of that, and even after doing them my opinion of him didn't shift. His stuff in the final trial is the only time I can say I cared, so the fact his memory got wiped was still a sad moment and his sacrifice to save the other three was still a good point. But I just didn't care about him outside of Chapter 6 I'm afraid. Though indifference still puts him above the couple of V3 characters I dislike.

Oddly enough though, despite me saying he had next to no presence, I actually had a part of me believe he was the blackened in Trial 2 (Though I can't remember why...), Trial 3 (The first murder anyway), Trial 4 (Because the game would register him as an Item instead of a Character) and Trial 5 (Because the EMP Grenade didn't effect him and... well, this one was shorter lived when it became clear that it could only be one person).

Someone probably already ointed this out but...

what got me to actually like Keebo was when he destroyed the school at the end. His final command was to kill Tsumugi and all of his friend that were left and he did it knowing that it would stop the madness. Keebo throughout the entire game faced an inner struggle of wether he was humanlike or not and then...

When the rocks were falling, the school was collapsing and Keebo, emotionless was preparing to blow himself up he saw the rocks moving, the same rock that hid his friends. He knew they survived the onslaught, he proceded to show a genuine smile full of happiness and proceeded to blow himself up, knowing that his friends would carry on his memory.

ma man

I love everything about my precious summer child, Keeboob.

Unlike most other characters, I don't have much to say about K1-B0, I think he's a great character and up among my faves. I think his personal conflict in his FTEs is really fascinating and he has some really funny moments and he can be great help in the trials, even saving us in Trial 3.

I kinda hope his AI is still intact or something, since he kinda went out and exploded and none of the survivors commented on his death, so I kinda hope he may secretly be alive or something.

K1-B0/Keebo - Ultimate "What if a SJW was a character from a american adult sitcom"

Last Day!

i wanted write something about him, but TsundereKermit already covered all, in particular how the game ridicules Keebo for no valid reason, and i wanted to say how DR's black humor, specially UDG and V3's, is pretty similar to one form a american adult sitcom like Family Guy or South Park, but i'm not ready to share it now, and this thread seems is more about Keebo's abuse than Keebo himself, so i scrapped what i wanted say about him, to say this:

1) Keebo is Kyosuke done right, they are 2 character pretty similar, good silver-haired boy becomes evil because he just wants beat DESPAIR

the difference is, unlike Kyosuke, we have seen all the pain Keebo &Co suffered, and his personality before the murders, while, for Kyosuke, while i can understand the "tragedy" and all, we have not seen what Kyosuke has gone through

another thing to consider is what both Keebo and Kyosuke entered the "Hope Terrorist/Nagito Komaeda" mode, i think Keebo's actions made much more sense, they were extreme, but i can understand why he did those, and still when Shuichi asked for some time, Keebo accepted, he didn't killed Shuichi&co and then blamed DESPAIR for it

2) in DR1 Junko put a choice for the DR1 surviviors: "Vote Despair - she kills Makoto (probably with the press)" or "Vote Hope - she kills herself"

the Final Execution of V3 is a call back to the Junko's last moments, because Keebo kills Tsumugi and then kills himself,

we have Keebo, Ultimate Hope, a abosulte normal boy whose only enique trait is his talent (just like a Junko, a girl whose life is determined by her talent [her talent is pretty much a curse TBH], who read DR0 know how normal Junko is when her talent doesn't works well) and Tsumugi Shirogane, Ultimate Despair, a plain girl without any particular featurse, who just like everyday things like manga and anime, who is aware of how much painful plain she is (just like Makoto)

We have a Junko-like Ultimate Hope who kills a Makoto-like Ultimate Despair, it show how there is no more difference between HOPE and DESPAIR, now they are just senseless words who TDR use to manipulate the Audience in believing DR is all about "the good beats evil", when the reality is much less black and white than it seems

I'm glad someone else pointed out how he does Munakata's character arc better than Munakata.

unrealted note: if the writers did more with Keebo he would be my favorite V3 boy, sadly he is in the background for too long, and his chapter focus is V3-6 wich is a constant mindfuck

K1-B0 is a character that, to this day, i'm not sure how to feel about. On one hand, he quickly shot up my personal rankings in chapter six when we learned of all his capabilities and the whole reason behind his antenna. But on the other hand, his robophobia shtick got old very quickly. Even Shuichi, who as a protagonist is generally very mellow and kind in his thoughts, had some not-so-nice thoughts to think about K1-B0. For example, in chapter five when they open the exisal area and K1-B0 says that he "feels like a mech could pop-out at any moment" and Shuichi says something along the lines of "it took so much out of me to hold in what I wanted to say just now". If anything, that's good self-awareness in the writing for the protagonist, realizing that you just want to clonk this robot on the head because he's the in-game equivalent of an SJW calling everything around them racist.

However, K1-B0's first five chapters did have some highlights. Despite never really being at the forefront of the action, there were notable moments such as the cutscene when Miu... fixes him up in chapter three, and then the features she installs in him come in handy in the subsequent trial. There was also the moment after the body discovery in chapter two where his body gets thrown into the glass to try to free Ryoma's corpse (i'll get back to this in a later paragraph). However, besides these, I couldn't think of anything relevant he did in those first 4 or 5 chapters. The only reason he had much more dialogue in chapter five is because, well, there wasn't many other characters to give the dialogue to.

Now, as for the one thing that doesn't really make sense writing-wise... why did all the characters treat him like crap and never feel bad about it? This situations smells just like that of Mikan's in DR2. They never did anything but try to help the group, yet they were constantly shat on and treated as if when they die, nobody in the group would really care. Even Miu was treated better than K1-B0! I guess you could say that there was just no way they could truly consider a robot a human, no matter how hard they tried. They assumed he was invincible and forgot that he had human-like feelings, so they paid no attention to the struggles he was experiencing alike to theirs. That explanation could suffice, but to me it just feels like sloppy and stupid writing. In Mikan's case it was at least slightly understandable because, you know... Mikan... but in K1-B0's case, all he did was help and he never got anything but hate for it.

The final trial is where K1-B0 really gets to shine. (I liked the white outlines for the trial interface when K1-B0 was the PC rather than the blue and pink we had with Shuichi and Kaede respectively). Let me just say, that final investigation was so much fun. That's the most Danganronpa has ever felt like a true video game other than some visual novel (this is the only visual novel I have ever played). I hope we get more investigations of the like in the future, if there is a future of course.

Now i'm pretty fuzzy on the specifics of the final trial because I only just finished chapter four of my replay, but the whole "Ultimate Hope Robot" thing and finding out that K1-B0 is an audience surrogate was in my opinion, a really nice way to make all of the ends meet for his character. And then finishing him off with the boom that is the final execution was one of my favorite moments in the entire series. Sucks that none of the survivors even acknowledged what he did for them, but I really did enjoy that bittersweet moment.

Overall, K1-B0 as a character had clear writing flaws, but the strong points were very strong. Final Ranking: #12

Kiibo is really a bit of an odd case, he definitely has a presence with his technology but he and Iruma's tech stuff could just be considered a plot device. Outside of that he's pretty much as V3's Ultimate Butt of Jokes which doesn't really end up as satisfying after a while, even if he is mostly around what are supposed to be the most outlandish characters in Kokichi and Miu.

Instead, due to his similarity to a human, sometimes it just left me wondering why he was even there when Kirumi's devoid personality and super-mom abilities seem more fit more for a service robot or something like that. At times it felt like Kiibo wasn't needed in the daily life portions until he started to become the audience surrogate. Instead by the end him mostly dragging along doesn't really create any interesting dynamic and more should've been done between him and Tsumugi as an audience surrogate for at least something between another character that lasted to chapter 6 besides what, that time when Himiko told him to blow himself up? Even though that's more on Himiko's horrid character which I'll get to when that time comes, a lack of particular interactions with the survivors leave Kiibo surviving that long to stick out a bit, and not in either a positive or a negative manner, just there like his presence at some points. That one with Himiko didn't even really go anywhere and it was just there most likely to remind me that he was treated as a joke until he had all the plot relevance in the world.

Kiibo is a neat idea but I really would've preferred they do more with him earlier on than to just stick around as a punching bag. The sacrificial stuff is nice and all, but V3 had so much time in it that so there's not really a reason as to why Kiibo feels like this. At the least he feels more human than Kirumi at times so my issues aren't robophobia, and it was neat to take over someone else in a trial again even if the gameplay wasn't too different and even if it was just a small point, sooo props there? ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

Kiibo is weird to me. I didn't really like him at first, but as more and more people died, he got into focus, and I started to really like him.

Keebo is my least favourite V3 character because he's just kinda there. He has no interesting or quirky character traits which is weird because he's a fucking robot. Him being helpful in class trials (and his help is just "I agree with what Shuichi said. That seems logical.") is not enough to make him worth having around.

Keebo really had the short stick of things but he was useful when the situation stalled in a couple of places. The discriminating remarks about his robotic nature wasn't as bad as Tenko discriminating remarks about men. Even if it was, it just wasn't every sentence or second. Anyway, I'm glad he was one of the only few that felt really sad for Miu's death (even if she did intent to kill, Kokichi really set it all up on poor Gonta and her) and even more by going Custom Robo on us and set to destroy the school after the last case. Don't know why he sacrificed himself either, but I guess he wasn't in too much control of his actions outside of facial expression.

Well, I was waiting for the moment people weren't commenting here, so now I guess I'll throw my thoughts with a side of salt.

I don't like Keebo. He's the combination of Mikan and Kyoko's main character traits, but without any practical reason to make me care. Outside of the class trials, his entire character is just about being bullied and picked on. I never liked characters that just exist to be the butt monkey of the cast without them actually having a personality I can care for. And what is Keebo? Just a guy who shouts Robophobic all day and boast about his robot body. Come on Kodaka, you hype up this character so much and this is all he has going for him for 5 chapters straight? It doesn't work with Tsumugi so hell if it works for Keebo.

And then his VA. Don't get me wrong, Lucien Dodge is a great VA, and at first he seems like a perfect match for Keebo. But as the game goes on, especially in the class trials, I'm getting really tired of listening to the kind of acting he portrays. He ends his sentences with this sudden fade out in his voice, and he does it all the time. It gets to the point where it feels kinda boring to listen to him.

Speaking of class trials, Keebo is the character who always gets the right answer to every scenario, so much so that he renders everyone else useless, kind of like Kyoko. However, there's a good reason why Kyoko is like that. In DR1, it's clear that the cast aren't the smartest people around and they don't necessarily have character arcs that shine strong enough to come up with that good of arguments in the trials, so understandably the detective will have to take the lead. Not saying I like it since it's still bad writing designated to render all but one character useless, but it's at least understandable.

Keebo doesn't feel like he earns that. It's clear the V3 cast are smart and competent enough people to come up with good arguments on their own, the writers just decide to make them useless in order for Keebo alone to come up with the right answers. I swear 80% of all the consent events lead to Keebo, it feels as if everytime it happens they're just stalling time before Keebo says something useful. That kind of butchering of the cast's credibility is not something I enjoy in the past games and it's not something I enjoy now.

I'll admit, I do like what he did in chapter 6. It's certainly a more interesting and likable twist of character arc than Tsumugi since he's not just completely shifting into the personality of someone who wants to destroy everything, it actually carries over as part of the torment he sat through watching all his friends die and finally getting the opportunity to set things right.

Personally, I would've liked it better if at a midpoint of the game, Keebo was somehow attacked and deactivated for several chapters, before he comes back in chapter 5 and what happens then lead to what he did in chapter 6. For me, he's an example of a character who would've been better if he has less screentime.

As he stands though, he is my third least favorite character in the game, surpassed only by Maki and Tsumugi.

Character Discussion #66 - Maki Harukawa (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

CLICK TO SEE SPOILER
SPOILERtop 200 commentsshow all 251navigate by subscribe
sorted by: best

formatting helpcontent policy
save

Maki I think is a strange case. I think generally speaking, DR has a problem with overcentralzing its "main" characters. V3 I think has this thing where the tone of the writing takes Maki's side even when she hasn't really done anything to warrant it.

As usual, I like bringing up the characters from previous games that the current character got their traits from. Maki has a really weird combination of characters who, individually I think are pretty interesting, but are kind of an odd choice to make into one character, and at times I don't think it meshes well with Maki. She's a mix between Kyoko, someone who goes on to be one of the main heroic characters of the series, and Mukuro, an aide to the main villain of the series.

I kind of found Maki to be a bit frustrating at times not necessarily because of what she herself is, but the fact that the game never really calls her out on anything or just kind of makes her less an individual and more "love interest character for Kaito" and all of her development is expressed in how much he loves him purely to wring out as much tragedy as possible for the fifth case. I said it during Kyoko's discussion, so here it is again:

I don't hate romance, but feel it destroys a lot of nuance in characters interacting with each other when romantic feelings for each other ends up being the central bond between the two and nothing else. People certainly shipped Makoto and Kyoko back in the early days of DR 1, but the narrative focuses more on how the two play off of their own personalities and dynamics. It feels very much like Makoto and Kyoko can function independently as characters, but we get something new when the two come together that we don't see looking at one of them by themselves.

So to begin with, I think the first big offender is when you lie in the second class trial to cover for her and to move the class trial…even though she could have just been the killer herself or possibly an accomplice, the fact that you're taking it upon yourself to risk everyone's lives because of the decision you've made to put your confidence in this one person that at the time, Shuichi only had like one or two conversations with (same goes for how Tenko is apparently willing to die in the class trial for Himiko, who she barely knows, and you could just point out that she had an unhealthy obsession with her, but with the contrast against Angie and the music playing in the background, it's clear the game wants you to take this as a serious heartwarming moment), and I think this was way too early in the story to do something like this with. First off, Maki hasn't done anything to earn any cooperation with people, especially in this case where she outright refused to investigate. I get why she didn't, but from Shuichi's perspective, there's still no reason to trust her. Second, you could maybe say "it's a leap of faith and we just have to trust our friend!" That can work, but only if you establish an actual connection between the characters to make sense for them to have faith in each other.

Makoto lies to cover for Kyoko in 1-5 and the entire case can only work because he had 5 prior chapters of getting to know her. She's not entirely trustworthy, but there are also several moments where she does do things to give Makoto reason to both trust and not trust her, like having his back and bringing up Sayaka's dying message to let him know she likely regretted her choice and didn't want to hurt him, or owning up to using him as a guinea pig and apologizing for overreacting. With Maki, the setup isn't necessarily bad, but it's just happening too early.

I've also seen a number of people say Shuichi was just bluffing and trying to unveil the truth, but….The bigger thing is that there's literally no reason to lie in this situation and that V3's lying mechanic is generally just tacked on and contrived. The lying makes sense in probably only two cases, and one of those isn't even used as effectively as it could be. If shuichi noticed something unusual, then the natural thing is to say "something isn't right" and bring up a contradiction, especially since the game constantly has everyone asking for his opinion since he's the ultimate detective, and the game's focus in this situation is that he feels the need to lie because it doesn't seem right, so it has the effect of the game just having you side with Maki without acknowledging what a huge issue that is.

The game has you sympathize with her for being an assassin, and you're treated to endless references to "the orphanage." You can kinda see where they're gonna go with Maki's character from this point, so we get more tsundere esque "I'm going to murder the fuck out of you" with Kaito going "d'aww!"

It really felt like any kind of dynamic change was pretty much Maki not really doing anything beneficial or changing, and what she does do is the bare minimum that everyone else did. Her defining moment now is participating and actually helping in the investigation, which could be a strong contrast except for her not really doing anything beneficial since we just came off that whole lying thing in case 2. Fuyuhiko does this better in DR 2 in that he refuses to cooperate and then he has a much bigger contrast when he apologizes in case 3. It works because his actions help to supplement his words, and the bigger difference here is that the game is aware that Fuyuhiko isn't sympathetic because of the bad things that happened to him that led him to being such a dick, he's sympathetic because of his efforts to atone for it and move forward.

For me, Maki doesn't really do any of that and it just instead plays up the kaito shipping more and more and calls that her character development instead. Unlike Kyoko, who mostly functioned on her own and we learned more about her through her interacting with Makoto, Maki mostly feels like a mix of someone trying to be her own character, but also existing to be a springboard for the romantic tragedy.

The biggest offender for me is when she's totally fine with indirectly killing everyone to take out Kokichi, and the game pretty much never talks about this fact or brings it up, expecting you to just take in all the feels with her having lost Kaito. I have zero problem with her trying to kill Kokichi, but one of the running issues a lot of the cases have in V3 is that that killing game rules hurt a lot of the circumstances behind the case.

If you had a rule where instead you aren't allowed to just vote whoever you want and have to support it with evidence but only the person who gets voted gets killed, then this case can work a lot better because it gives the characters more room for misdirection. They can tamper with the crime scenes, lie and further their own agendas, falsely pin the crime on whoever they want, and that encourages the game to have scenarios where lying makes sense. This way you can have Maki trying to take out Kokichi at all costs and flipping around and protecting Kaito once she sees who the real victim is, and you can still have the same setup of wanting to ruin the class trials. It's pretty unsettling having the game be all happy and joking with Maki saying "do you want to die" in a more playful way in case 6 after she made it clear she was willing to let everyone die in case 5, and then we have her in case 6 where she's ready to just kill the mastermind.

Maki just felt really all over the place, and I think she's held back more by the fact that Danganronpa's conventions don't really compliment the scenarios they try to put the characters in in V3 and the fact that the game just sorta takes her side even when she doesn't really do anything to warrant it. If you tweak the rules a bit, I think she'd work a lot better, but she's also just kind of lowered to a love interest character at times with some tsundere tragic backstory to spread it out.

Going out at night is infringing on your freedom according to Maki (even though that's the first idea the DR 1 cast had and we did just had someone murdered in the middle of the night, so it's not an unreasonable precaution) and assassins with tragic backstories are bad, but serial killers implied to be serial killers through torture are totally evil. It's not so much the characters I have an issue with, since obviously Angie had her own agenda and all, but it's more just the tone the game takes with everything without any sense of nuance.

Kyoko isn't entirely sympathetic in DR 1, but the important difference is that the game doesn't overlook at and it bites her in the ass. She explicitly says that she abandoned Makoto. Even in case 5, Kyoko didn't directly cause anything since she didn't kill anyone and she was unfairly framed and also had to deal with Monokuma breaking the rules, which makes it easier to still sympathize with her. She uses Makoto as a guinea pig earlier, but again, they don't just overlook this fact. DR1 never felt like it had to make Kyoko in the right all the time, which worked because she wasn't.

With Maki, I feel like you really have to glance over a lot of very big things and it causes her character to suffer a lot.

I wish that I can give gold, but I'm broker than V3-2

Who needs gold when you get lines like that

Looks like you still got a ways to go

X

You summed up everything I wanted to say about Maki. Not a bad character, but kinda all over the place.

Your entire comment says how I personally feel about Maki, and why I like Kirigiri than most characters.

As you (and others) pointed out, Maki isn't a bad character, but her involvement in the killing game as an important character feels forced for me.

There was even a point in the game in which I asked myself How did Maki go from a seemingly "support character" to a main character, considering she and Shuichi barely interacted at all during the story up until that point?

and flipping around and protecting Kaito once she sees who the real victim is, and you can still have the same setup of wanting to ruin the class trials.

Just to remark. What happened there was not her protecting Kaito. She just legitimately believed Kaito couldn't have been alive because

1) She didn't believe Kokichi could've faked the poison deal

2) She didn't believe Kaito was capable of killing someone after what he kept telling her.

Going out at night is infringing on your freedom according to Maki (even though that's the first idea the DR 1 cast had and we did just had someone murdered in the middle of the night

The problem here is that it was an authoritary decision made without the consent of the others. You know how that can be a problem, right?

The problem here is that it was an authoritary decision made without the consent of the others. You know how that can be a problem, right?

Yes, and as I said, i don't believe Angie is in the right, just that they never take the time to give any nuance to the other party. I'm not suggesting Angie was 100% right, just that they act like there are no problems with the other group's thinking.

Just to remark. What happened there was not her protecting Kaito. She just legitimately believed Kaito couldn't have been alive because

I'm spitballing a hypothetical here in which she is protecting Kaito in the second portion of the class trial, not saying that the original was her protecting Kaito.

Yes, and as I said, i don't believe Angie is in the right, just that they never take the time to give any nuance to the other party. I'm not suggesting Angie was 100% right, just that they act like there are no problems with the other group's thinking.

I don't think it was possible to give any nuance to a party who wouldn't take "no" for an answer. I believe the blame of that situation is entirely on Angie.

I'm spitballing a hypothetical here in which she is protecting Kaito in the second portion of the class trial, not saying that the original was her protecting Kaito.

I understand. I was just letting that clear since many people misinterpret that and believe Maki was once again trying to sacrifice everyone else for Kaito's sake.

Your comments are always a nice read!

I'm starting to feel really bad about liking V3 now.

I legit feel like not playing the game again. I've never seen fans hate a game this strongly before. I was probably blind to the flaws.

You shouldn't feel bad. I don't think others should not stop enjoying it if they do. I still don't personally care much for the game, but t doesn't mean you can't get enjoyment out of it, and there were definitely a number of things I enjoyed from V3.

I'm also unlucky in that most of my favorite characters died early. :(

Nah, just look at your upvotes. I'm probably just really wrong.

I don't have fun anymore posting about Danganronpa. I just probably don't get it.

Edit: I'm going to go and have a long talk with myself. I know I am wrong here, and I won't come back until I figure out why. I know how annoying it is to have that one person be like "That shit thing is good!". Well I won't be that guy haha! Until then take care Danganronpa Reddit. Gentlemen and women, all of you.

I've gotten plenty of downvotes for my opinions as well, and votes in general on /r/danganronpa is a joke anyway because a lot of it amounts to just petty crap. I don't personally care whether I get gold or downvoted into the ground. They're just dumb internet points at the end of the day.

If you like Maki or V3, then definitely like it. I think it's valuable to understand why you like or dislike things, but it doesn't mean we can't enjoy things, have guilty pleasures, or whatever. I don't like Danganronpa as much as most people, but I do get enjoyment at looking at it and trying to understand the series from a writing standpoint.

Dude you can't be fucking serious, your not wrong for liking V3, V3 is a generally well recieved game anyway (the reviews on steam are all around very positive) most of the hate it did get was from the ending when the game first came out, and it's mellowed down alot since then. Quit being wuss and questioning if you like something or not just because a few random faggots and the internet say it sucks. I love V3 and I'm fucking proud of it and you should be too

I've been a huge Danganronpa fan before V3's release, and I love V3.

Don't feel bad for liking it just because many fans dislike it so much.

Which are your favorites? For...Reasons.

Definitely Kaede and Ryoma. I like Ch. 1 Kirumi as well. Korekiyo is great if I ignore some very blatant issues with chapter 3. Keeboi is alright and Kaito has his moments. I enjoyed Rantaro for the five minutes he was around. Like Angie too, just not the way the game portrays her.

i thought rantaro was a more nuanced character in v2 personally.

Definitely Kaede and Ryouma

high five Your sir have good taste. Imagine the warzone once Kaede and some character's discussions arrive to weekly discussion like Angie, Ouma and Kiyo's.

Don't feel bad about liking a game, lol. Just because fans like to rag on aspects of it doesn't mean they're necessarily right or wrong. I personally disagree with a lot of points people make, especially when I go back to the game and am like "do people seriously get mad at this?" It's not bad to notice things wrong with something you like after the fact, but there is a sense of "well, everyone else hates it, so they must be right" when it comes to this sub's discussions on V3, or at least that's what I get sometimes, given lots of people parrot each other. The same goes for DR3, and I absolutely hate DR3 and will rip it apart at every chance I get, though I started despising it around episode 7 instead of after the fact like a lot of people, so maybe I'm different.

Besides, even if people hate it, it still comes in second in polls regarding your favorite game, sometimes nearly tying with SDR2. Just because someone has one issue with it doesn't mean they have issues with all of it.

Oh, no worries, a ton of polls done here have V3 as the fan favourite or second of the main games, I don't think it gets that much more hate than the others, its just more recent and thus more relevant to discussion.

I dunno. I haven't posted on Reddit for like 3 days lol (more like 4 because of timing and all that). The polls don't mean much IMO, since it's not like a majority vote on it. I am certain that if the entire community voted, V3 would be dead last in the rankings.

It's really well quite frankly sad to me. I just can't wrap my head around it. How something that I enjoyed that much, could cause this much backlash? I did read all of the comments, like TsundereKermit's well thought up post up there and I still can't agree with a single word of it. And I did think about it.

I mean someone posted about how they wanted to hear negative things about V3 because they hated it that much. No, seriously. I mean I recently played through the entire series in January (and I didn't know anything) and kinda fell in love, but I haven't felt that level of hostility towards an entry like...well ever. I legit don't feel like I am wanted here.

I mean I was in a big Danganronpa rush, and enjoying everything and posting a lot and watching a lot of Let's Plays to see how people would react to the things that blew me away. And I legit just can't anymore. And it's not anybody's fault, like no one said anything wrong!

It's just that the overwhelming negativity crushed me. I was all about Danganronpa for like a couple months and now...it's gone. It's kinda weird, and I know it's stupid and all. But it's how I feel. Like it gets me angry, and all but I'm not the guy that's gonna harp about it on the interwebs you know?

Like I fucking love DRP1 and 2 but like, they have some terrible characters and they have some terrible writing moments and I'm "I'm ok with this, I still love those games." and then I get online and all I see is people going "V3 is shit and it has stupid shit in it!". And I'm like "Dude 1 and 2 had much more stupid shit in it" but you know, it's classic videogame fanbase logic. Like some shit is just considered "The Top" and that's it. It's kinda criticism free.

And I'm not aiming that anyone, anybody here that had criticism and expressed it, did a great job and I get that, and I respect that a good deal. I don't get it. But I respect it!

But it's the little things. It's the constant complaining. It's the constant shitting on V3 and the constant pretending that (again, IMO) 1 and 2 are somehow Shakespearian masterpieces of perfect writing that rule so hard above the one game that's just as good as them...

Like you know....I'm burned out. Bring on the downvotes, I don't care.

v3 wouldn't be dead last in the rankings. the vocal minority of people who dislike the games is generally high in every given situation and if you think this is the worst it can get with a game, then you haven't seen anything.

i'm like you though. i had a period of disliking v3 but i started to like it and whatever the fuck anyone on this planet tells me, i love v3 and i always will. critics are not >objectively< right all the time. the good, qualified critics help break down the problems in a game but even they are subject to their views influencing them.

ik it can be hard to keep liking something that everyone shits on collectively all the fucking time but you know what, that's life. you'll always meet shitheads who disagree with you and make you feel like an idiot at times for liking what you do. to them i say you nod and say "yeah i am an idiot but i still like this"

But it's the little things. It's the constant complaining. It's the constant shitting on V3 and the constant pretending that (again, IMO) 1 and 2 are somehow Shakespearian masterpieces of perfect writing that rule so hard above the one game that's just as good as them...

i saw some stuff saying recency bias for v3 is why people like it and lolololol. as if there are no other reasons to like it and what's to say they're not having nostalgia bias? all these games had major problems and nothing wrong with discussing that but since v3 has come into light, the community seems to be so overly negative to it is also because it's recent. people remember problems from the old games less but there were TONS of problems there too.

all i gotta say is that dude, i also think v3 is a great game. you're not wrong for liking it and it has PLENTY things done way better than the previous games. people harping on v3 shouldn't discourage you because while you should listen to the criticisms with an open mind, they shouldn't overrule your feelings about the game. realizing a game is a flawed in ways you couldn't have seen it alone is the point of a discussion, to expand your ideas and thoughts. but knowing that doesn't change anything as your experience with the game is yours alone and nobody can tell you what to feel about it.

Recency bias? See this is what pisses me off. Like you can't really like V3. There HAS to be a reason. We HAVE to be wrong.

Bitch I played the entire series and watched the damn animes in like two weeks. They're all freaking new to me.

And you know what? You are right. Because eventually there will be a Danganronpa 4. Because Spike Chunsoft is totally not killing off their biggest franchise, and they aren't ending it on an action spinoff either.

And I can tell you. The cast interactions aren't as good as usual, it relies too much on tropes and I feel like the story beats are more problematic then usual. And the people that like it, only like it because it's new. Oh and I really hate THAT character. And the protagonist is bland. Oh and something big happens in Chapter 5 again? I hate that. I don't like when stories kick up a gear near the end, despite that happening in like...everything ever. And it not happening would be pretty damn boring wouldn't it? Oh and the case is just like Chapter 5 of 2, despite all freaking chapters 5 being completely different from one another. And it's ending? THE WORST.

And some people will legit have that opinion! And they are right! It's fine to have that opinion, and it's fine to express it. I usually don't have any problems with criticism. But with V3 I dunno it's different. I think it's that post about "Post bad things about V3 because I hate it that much" that made me go like "This fanbase is hostile to me".

The thing is, I could legitimately write entire essays about why every single character in every single game has shitty writing around them. I could legit write a freakin' book about how shitty some developments are in all 3 games. But I won't because I like the games still (a lot), and it didn't really bother me. But I'd get lots of thumbs up if I did that for V3 (and the upcoming 4 that we all expect), and a lot of thumbs down if I do that for 1 or 2.

Never feel bad about liking a game. Just because fans(myself included) shit on this game, doesn't mean that its bad? If you enjoy this game, you should never care what others think, as long as it brings you joy.

I pretty much agree with the vast majority of this (and yet oddly still consider my opinion of Maki vaguely positive, like a B or C level) but I'd like to comment on one thing, your note regarding the nighttime rule.

The main thing about this is your comparison to the DR1 cast you make, and your implied suggestion this difference is V3 taking 'everything without a sense of nuance'. I'd argue this difference in reaction between casts just accurately presents the different attitude's of the students, as for the most part V3's cast IS much more independent and indifferent/hostile to each other. On a character level, it wouldn't really make sense for the characters who oppose it to simply shrug it off, and those characters where it makes sense to support it do. Let me put it like this, if the characters of Chihiro and Asahina were fine with ignoring it in DR1, it makes sense for people like Maki, Ouma and Mui to outright protest it in V3.

Sorry if this sounds like a major disagreement with you, just a nitpick.

That's not quite what I mean when I say they have no real nuance.

I'm not even really talking about how they're interacting with each other, but more how the game portrays one side as absolutely in the right without question. That's not to say I'm saying that Angie should be portrayed as in the right, but I feel they should have shown more of the shortcomings in the thinking of the students siding against the council.

For example, they say how the Student council crew is playing into Monokuma's hands by going along with the motive...while also doing the exact same thing by wanting the flashback lights and getting mad at Angie for trashing them. I'm not arguing that Angie is right, but they could at least have her bring up something like that, and it doesn't help that nearly every single person siding against Angie goes on to either attempt or actually kill someone. Obviously the SC crew does too, but I just found it really obnoxious and preachy when the game went on and on about how absolutely stupid one side is.

It's also what I'll bring up when we get to Shinguji's week, but I sorta had a similar problem where they just ignore massive details and felt it kind of a wasted opportunity that they don't take advantage of the fact that they want you to sympathize with a killer for hire who no doubt has killed countless people, only to want you to be freaked out by a serial killer who has a huge kill count and incest.

Asahina broke the rule, but spent half the chapter saying that she was incredibly upset that she did. She respected Celeste's suggestion to the point that even after Celeste's death, suggested they keep following the rule. She only broke it because she was in a depressive state at the time.

Chihiro was desperate to change his body and had a 24 hour timer, and even then didn't think the rule was unreasonable. Even the few characters who break the rule still mostly respected it, and the DR 1 cast thought it was a good idea.

I thought it was absolutely ridiculous in V3 that the characters try to argue that it's infringing on their freedom and whatnot when it's a completely reasonable suggestion. I understand they're focusing more on Angie being ultra authoritative and controlling by just taking over, but I don't think they picked very good things for her to enforce because they're mostly good ideas.

With the flashback lights, obviously they didn't know until the true nature about them until the end of the game, but even if they were 100% Genuine, you still have to realize that Monokuma is going to plant very specific information to manipulate them, and I feel like Angie could bring this up saying "oh? Aren't you doing the exact same thing?"

while also doing the exact same thing by wanting the flashback lights and getting mad at Angie for trashing them.

Are you serious? That's not hipocrisy at all.

With the flashback lights, obviously they didn't know until the true nature about them until the end of the game, but even if they were 100% Genuine, you still have to realize that Monokuma is going to plant very specific information to manipulate them, and I feel like Angie could bring this up saying "oh? Aren't you doing the exact same thing?"

There's no reason for the cast to suspect the flashback light content. If you read Monokuma's information for it, it acts as some sort of trigger to the part of the brain that is responsible for the "deja vu" phenomenom. Whatever you see in it, you'll think that it really happened.

Again, I'm not talking about the flashback lights themselves being fake, I'm saying that even if they were true it doesn't mean they don't exist to manipulate you. You can pick and choose what you reveal even if something is 100% accurate to manipulate someone, and the fact that Monokuma was handing them out at all was clearly not for their benefit.

That's more what I'm talking about.

and the fact that Monokuma was handing them out at all was clearly not for their benefit.

But he was not. They were finding them and from the start, to use and to not use them was a choice they made themselves. Monokuma never outright forced them to experience one until the end of chapter 5.

Monokuma didn't hand them out directly but they were clearly placed there to be found. Like, the first one was in a giant treasure chest in the middle of the hallway.

That said, the series is pretty consistent about the characters never thinking anything they find in the school/island/whatever is suspicious unless Monokuma hands it to them directly, for whatever reason. So... whatever, I guess.

Monokuma didn't hand them out directly but they were clearly placed there to be found. Like, the first one was in a giant treasure chest in the middle of the hallway.

But the decision to use or to not use them was still entirely up to them.

That said, the series is pretty consistent about the characters never thinking anything they find in the school/island/whatever is suspicious unless Monokuma hands it to them directly, for whatever reason. So... whatever, I guess.

They're suspicious as fuck about the flashback light and some are even refusing to see what's in it until Kaito's reckless optimism pushes them forward to the unknown though.

But the decision to use or to not use them was still entirely up to them.

This has nothing to do with whether or not the lights were meant as a tool to manipulate them though. The characters were never forced to watch the videos in chapter 2 but they were clearly (and explicitly) meant as a motivation for someone to kill someone.

Though looking back at it I guess that's not what you were arguing against in the first place, so sorry if I misunderstood. In that case my original comment was missing the point as well.

This has nothing to do with whether or not the lights were meant as a tool to manipulate them though.

I'm not saying they weren't. Just that it isn't fair to say that the cast should've thought about that right away when Monokuma didn't even force them to experience it.

The characters were never forced to watch the videos in chapter 2 but they were clearly (and explicitly) meant as a motivation for someone to kill someone.

Monokuma and the Monokubs handed the video to them directly and a good part of the characters chose to not see their actual video.

Though looking back at it I guess that's not what you were arguing against in the first place, so sorry if I misunderstood. In that case my original comment was missing the point as well.

Yeah, we kind of drifted a bit from my original point that is that there was no hipocrisy in their decision to consider what Angie to the flashback light a bad thing since very little at that point indicated the flashback lights were a manipulation tool.

You know what? screw this. I've been waiting for at least someone to say something but since it's not going to happen i'll just come out and say it.

First of all congrats on getting the highest upvote on this thread. It's definitely something. But having a lot of upvotes just means you just happen to have a similar opinion to the general masses. And that is especially true for reddit. But I want to say this not to you but whoever is reading your comment thinking that whatever you say is probably right simply because it has upvotes. To those people I just want to say that it's better to use your head instead of always rolling along with the majority since V3 not only is a game that came out recently but it's also a story that has a lot of characters who have flaws and they do very questionable and immoral actions. It is true for the other games but V3 in particular deserves this acknowledgement.

As for my personal feeling about your comment. I think it has a lot of holes in it.

I kind of found Maki to be a bit frustrating at times not necessarily because of what she herself is, but the fact that the game never really calls her out on anything or just kind of makes her less an individual and more "love interest character for Kaito" and all of her development is expressed in how much he loves him purely to wring out as much tragedy as possible for the fifth case

First of all there is only two instances where Maki does something morally questionable. The first one is where Maki hides the fact that she talked with Ryoma but that one is justified because it was heavily implied (and this implication was never countered) that Ryoma threatened to reveal her talent which is ultimately she had to hide it because she didn't want to LIE. She would have eventually told everyone about meeting Ryoma if the information became crucial which she did.

The second one was at the fifth trial but again it's very late in the game so your:

but the fact that the game never really calls her out on anything

Is a faulty argument that only applies to chapter 5 which i will soon get to.

just kind of makes her less an individual and more "love interest character for Kaito" and all of her development is expressed in how much he loves him purely to wring out as much tragedy as possible for the fifth case

This is sort factually wrong. She only started to develop feelings for him at the start of ch4. And the reason she went alone into the hangar wasn't to save Kaito but it was to kill Kokichi who she thought was a remnant.

And her development started at ch3 yet at the same time Maki and Kaito were never couples and her development came from the fact that she started to care about others (again nothing romantic) and wanted to make a change in herself and her environment. Which is also the reason she attacked Kokichi and that action proves that she is an individual again it's kind of "factually" contradicting your ["less an individual and more "love interest character for Kaito"].

I don't hate romance, but feel it destroys a lot of nuance in characters interacting with each other when romantic feelings for each other ends up being the central bond between the two and nothing else.

This would apply to Izayo and Ruruka from DR3 but factually does not apply to Maki and Kaito cause they were never a couple and Maki confessed to him at the end of ch5 and Kaito didn't even know about the fact that she liked him (and he doesn't love her back and is generally nice to everyone).

So to begin with, I think the first big offender is when you lie in the second class trial to cover for her and to move the class trial…even though she could have just been the killer herself or possibly an accomplice, the fact that you're taking it upon yourself to risk everyone's lives because of the decision you've made to put your confidence in this one person that at the time, Shuichi only had like one or two conversations with (same goes for how Tenko is apparently willing to die in the class trial for Himiko, who she barely knows, and you could just point out that she had an unhealthy obsession with her, but with the contrast against Angie and the music playing in the background, it's clear the game wants you to take this as a serious heartwarming moment), and I think this was way too early in the story to do something like this with. First off, Maki hasn't done anything to earn any cooperation with people, especially in this case where she outright refused to investigate. I get why she didn't, but from Shuichi's perspective, there's still no reason to trust her. Second, you could maybe say "it's a leap of faith and we just have to trust our friend!" That can work, but only if you establish an actual connection between the characters to make sense for them to have faith in each other.

This has nothing to do with Maki as a character. Shuichi did not lie in order to defend Maki because Shuichi would have lied regardless of whoever was in that position because Ouma's logic in that case was faulty to begin with and he was using process of elimination which would immediately fall apart since they didn't actually know when Ryoma died. So he was kinda taking the easy way out instead of using a solid evidence.

Whether the lie in ch2 is well executed or not is a topic that belongs elsewhere.

And even if you want to argue about that I HIGHLY suggest you to rewatch this part (Link:https://youtu.be/R0b3ElSfpAU?t=4260). Shuichi literally provides them the reason why he thinks Ryoma was alive during nighttime and Kokichi and the others just ignores him. Shuichi even says "I don't want your churade I just want the truth" to Kokichi.

It really felt like any kind of dynamic change was pretty much Maki not really doing anything beneficial or changing, and what she does do is the bare minimum that everyone else did

She was changing. That was the whole point of her character she changes throughout the course of the game. She was extremely cold and distant in ch3 yet she is the one to motivate the others to rescue Kaito in ch5 while everyone else was depressed and wasn't willing to do anything from believing that they were the sole survivors of the human race.

The game has you sympathize with her for being an assassin, and you're treated to endless references to "the orphanage." You can kinda see where they're gonna go with Maki's character from this point, so we get more tsundere esque "I'm going to murder the fuck out of you" with Kaito going "d'aww!"

Very personal problems and a lot of "exaggeration".

yikes

You have some good points, but the way you put it was unnecessarily rude :|

Sorry, if I sounded like that. But this sort of thing kind of pops out of nowhere. I tried to act a little sincere at the start but that kind of fell apart once i got into the heat of the argument

tried to act a little sincere

you know what? Screw this

How is that sincere?

How is that sincere?

how is this a response? or simply saying anything against an xD TROLL xD is fine? that guy apologized for his behavior several times. yes he got heated and angry about it which is not an excuse but rather than writing cringe and yikes, do you have anything to actually add to the conversation than commenting about his rudeness? we get it, he was rude. what next?

judging by how this thread is going, i'll be downvoted too bc i'm defending the r00d guy D:< so go ahead and prove me right if you do.

-2 points 2 months ago 
Continuation:

The biggest offender for me is when she's totally fine with indirectly killing everyone to take out Kokichi, and the game pretty much never talks about this fact or brings it up, expecting you to just take in all the feels with her having lost Kaito

The "biggest offender" as in the only time Maki ever did something worthy of criticism? Ch5 is the only time she acts rash and does 2 morally questionable actions. And you're deliberately taking some stuff out of context to justify your hatred for Maki. She doesn't want to kill everyone you know. She thought she was the blackened and Kokichi was the one who killed Kaito, they were the final survivors of humankind and simply Maki didn't want to be declared as Kaito's killer and give Kokichi the ending he wants. The only reason she came off as an asshole during the trial is because she already made up her mind thinking about it ALL NIGHT. That doesn't mean she didn't hesitate on doing this.

I have zero problem with her trying to kill Kokichi, but one of the running issues a lot of the cases have in V3 is that that killing game rules hurt a lot of the circumstances behind the case. If you had a rule where instead you aren't allowed to just vote whoever you want and have to support it with evidence but only the person who gets voted gets killed, then this case can work a lot better because it gives the characters more room for misdirection. They can tamper with the crime scenes, lie and further their own agendas, falsely pin the crime on whoever they want, and that encourages the game to have scenarios where lying makes sense. This way you can have Maki trying to take out Kokichi at all costs and flipping around and protecting Kaito once she sees who the real victim is, and you can still have the same setup of wanting to ruin the class trials. It's pretty unsettling having the game be all happy and joking with Maki saying "do you want to die" in a more playful way in case 6 after she made it clear she was willing to let everyone die in case 5, and then we have her in case 6 where she's ready to just kill the mastermind.

Okay, It's fine to go a little creative. But I think you should think twice before saying these types of stuff since with the rules you mentioned the whole freaking point of the game would be lost. People are upvoting your comment because you're saying negative things about Maki while sounding not as aggressive as other people. That's the only reason it's getting upvoted and I don't think people actually even agree with your "rule change" idea. Again, if the rules allowed for someone to vote wrong then Shuichi would just act like he doesn't know anything and vote for Kokichi. I told you why this rule change idea is the most flimsiest thing in existence in another post. And the wholee fucking point what makes this confrontation interesting is because she is willing to sacrifice everyone. It's showing us what Maki is truly capable of as flawed person and as an assassin before completing her development and changing her ways. This is good writing, and you cannot call it bad writing simply because you don't like her actions even if they make complete sense.

Kyoko isn't entirely sympathetic in DR 1, but the important difference is that the game doesn't overlook at and it bites her in the ass.

Same with Maki. Why do you think Maki cried on the floor because of this? Cause her husbando died? sure that has to do with some parts of it. But she also cried because she knew she could have realized the things Kaito had said earlier which something so obvious but it was something she missed.

Even in case 5, Kyoko didn't directly cause anything since she didn't kill anyone and she was unfairly framed and also had to deal with Monokuma breaking the rules, which makes it easier to still sympathize with her.

This is complete bullshit because you said you were fine with Maki attacking Kokichi then you contradict yourself by saying "Kyoko didn't directly cause anything since she didn't kill anyone so it's better".

She uses Makoto as a guinea pig earlier, but again, they don't just overlook this fact.

Makoto does completely overlook that fact. Stop trying to bend facts. And I also think it's fine for DR1 because Makoto is generally a nice guy. Even if you whine about ch5 Maki it only proves that you have double standard since Kirigiri's actions were just as dangerous too. The reason they overlooked that fact is because Maki's life was also in danger just like how Kirigiri's was. She didn't just stab people in the back like Sayaka did.

and assassins with tragic backstories are bad, but serial killers implied to be serial killers through torture are totally evil.

I don't understand your "serial killers implied to be serial killers" very well. But in case you're talking about serial killers. It's different because Maki was being forced to kill someone every single time while someone like Genocider Jack loved doing it.

Super Yikes 2: Goodbye Cringe

this isn't a class trial homes. no one's gonna die if we disagree.

それに賛成だ！

This is a character discussion page. Something like this should happen for the sake of fairness. And honestly, you guys are the ones that are making the thread hell for Maki fans. I don't want any Maki fan to start their comments with "I know she is a terribly written character but I like Maki". If you people are going to whine about a character regardless of having poor reasonings then it is only fair for some people to defend her.

i'm not trying to make anything hell for anyone. i don't mind maki, but i find the execution of the character to be flawed and this feels like the world's most appropriate venue to say so, so i did. like you say, it's a character discussion thread.

i think there's a difference between being like 'okay, this person approaches this character differently than i do, but i want to represent my view or challenge something they said so i'll respond' versus being like 'ACTUALLY, YOU ARE WRONG, YOU DO NOT UNDERSTAND THE CHARACTER, YOU SMALL INDIVIDUAL' and with all due respect, a lot of your responses in this thread have tended toward the latter. it's not a personal attack if people don't like a character you like or interpret her the same way you do. it shouldn't make your life hell if people disagree with you.

load more comments (30 replies)

This is a character discussion page. Something like this should happen for the sake of fairness.

Honestly, you say those stuff but starting arguments while using some rude comments isn't exactly the best way to show "fairness." It just looked like you were angry while trying to refute some points and being a bit cringe.

And honestly, you guys are the ones that are making the thread hell for Maki fans.

You are basically saying the thread are meant only for Maki fans? This post is a character discussion, don't expect to be full of flowers, having everyone to praise and like a character. If they don't like something about them, people have the freedom to say, since it's their opinion. Now, if there are more negative opinions, what you can do about it? It's just how they feel about the character.

Honestly, you say those stuff but starting arguments while using some rude comments isn't exactly the best way to show "fairness." It just looked like you were angry while trying to refute some points and being a bit cringe.

Rude comments? I literally started this comment by congratulating him on getting the highest upvote. That wasn't meant to be passive aggressive remark. That was geniune.

You are basically saying the thread are meant only for Maki fans? This post is a character discussion, don't expect to be full of flowers, having everyone to praise and like a character. If they don't like something about them, people have the freedom to say, since it's their opinion. Now, if there are more negative opinions, what you can do about it? It's just how they feel about the character.

Sure, but look everywhere around you. All the comments that talk negatively about Maki are the ones that got the highest upvote regardless of it being rude or not being the most articulate. And If you start your comment saying that you like Maki, you don't get any. How is that look like fair discussion?

It came off as incredibly rude and condescending. I didn't bother replying for that reason because I pick my battles carefully here and don't really want to have to deal with some of the comments because it's like having teeth pulled.

That was surely not the intention. Tho, I can understand since from the way I phrased it, it came off like that. I just saw someone make a remark about how having upvotes makes you right. And I just wanted to respond that as well.

The moment I realised I didn't like Maki was when my sister asked for my V3 rankings around Chapter 4 and I went up until Angie without even considering Maki (Angie has since gone up my list upon rewatch but not Maki although that could be because of my bad taste). This was strange because I thought I liked Maki. I didn't hate spending time with her and I was usually looking forward to our nightly exercise sessions together. Once her talent was revealed, I even got excited and spent a FTE with her…but only one and I realised why. I got bored of her. I see her everytime in the main story so why would I want to waste my limited FTE on her (Ironically, I almost maxed up Kaito in spite of this). While most characters in V3 suffered from a lack of screentime, Maki was the opposite, suffering from overexposure. It didn't help that what I got from her FTEs were pretty cliche stuff and I felt Danganronpa has already done a similar distant character better and with a much more unique backstory. Those exercise sessions were a mistake, especially when DR typically have only 6 chapters to finish its story. They made the interactions between the Kaito-Shuichi-Maki trio repetitive while also putting too much focus on them.

Other Maki points and nitpicks:

I wish a talent such as Ultimate Assassin was treated in a more satirical or dark humor-ish way like Genocider Syo's serial killer talent. Then, maybe it would come off as less edgy and more fun in a DR kind of way.

It would probably have been better to leave her feelings for Kaito ambiguous like most DR romances. She could just have a teary goodbye ala Kaede and Shuichi and maybe even a hug to make the implications more obvious but no outright confession. Heck, even Naegi and Kirigiri never had an actual confession as far as I remember. I think love in DR is better as a ‘show, not tell' affair, especially with the relatively short time the characters spend with each other. Kaito has Shuichi anyway

Honestly, I wished she was the blackened for the fifth trial because it would have been a less predictable outcome since she didn't have as much death flags as the other two... and a professional killer murdering someone in a killing game is something DR hasn't done before. This would also have made her development and arc much more interesting. But I guess the Kaito sacrifice thing was ok…at least Kaito got some development.

It's unfortunate that Maki's development is so intricately tied to Kaito's. It works, especially considering her personality and talent but it feels forced and cliche on her side. She also wasn't given any flaws besides being anti-social because of her talent but Kaito ended up with a whole range of flaws which made him an infinitely more interesting character.

It's also unfortunate that Maki's entire personality is tied to her talent. I like DR because it usually doesn't do this at least in an explicit way. Eg: Angie is more of a cult leader than an artist. But for Maki, all her personality traits could be explained with her growing up as an assassin.

I do like the bit of rewatch value she gives. It's interesting to see her reactions before the talent reveal with the knowledge of her assassin talent in mind. It's especially fun seeing how Kokichi acts around her because he seemed to be suspicious of her since Chapter 1.

Her last "Do you want to die?" to Shuichi was cute and a nice touch of character development.

Definitely the best investigation partner, followed by Kaede and Kiibo (if him following me in the Exisal hangar in Chapter 5 counts), Kaito (his sidekick thing got old fast) and Kokichi at dead last (you're not supposed to leave me halfway in the middle of an investigation!).

Overall, a meh character to me. Hope the next time DR uses an ‘edgy' talent, it's not played as straight as this one.

The moment I realised I didn't like Maki was when my sister asked for my V3 rankings around Chapter 4 and I went up until Angie without even considering Maki .

I had a sorta similar experience. I didn't think to much about Maki until I tried to rank the V3 characters, and found that I couldn't bring myself to put her above any of the other students. Which honestly kinda surprised me.

Unfortunately, I find Maki to be the worst character in the entire game, which is a shame since I loved her pre-release and during the beginning of the game. I feel that all the flaws and inconsistencies in her writing not only highlight a problem in her assassin reveal, but also in Kodaka's writing and how he tends to favor some characters over others.

As I have already stated, Maki was one of my favorites going into the game. She didn't steal my heart the same way Shinguji did, but I found her background as a caregiver who did not like kids to be really interesting and had a lot of potential to work off of. I also really enjoyed her aloof personality at the beginning and how blunt and direct she was with her comments. It made her a enjoyable character to talk with because she felt like one of the more realistic and grounded characters in a cast filled with strong personalities. One of the best examples of this was during the Chapter 1 investigation where she understands the possibility of Kaede and Shuichi suspecting her, telling them that it is best to suspect everyone. It relates back to DR2 to the concept of belief and how you must doubt others first in order to believe them.

Besides that scene, Maki doesn't do much of note in Chapter 1 besides tagging along with Kaito's group to fight the Monokumas. However, Maki becomes a lot more focused in Chapter 2 and the game does a good job at handling one of Maki's core traits: her lack of planning ahead. Maki finds out that her research lab is actually built around her true talent: the SHSL Assassin and knows that the others would be suspicious of her if they find out her talent. So how does Maki handle this situation? Terribly. Maki decides to guard her lab throughout each of the days which not only excludes her from interacting with the cast, but it also draws a lot of attention from them as well. Maki's tactic to prevent suspicion from her classmates only makes her more suspicious in the long run. The final nail in the coffin is how Maki responds to Kokichi pointing out her true talent in front of everyone else. Maki's decision to intimidate Kokichi by putting him in a choke hold serves to only gain more interest by the others into what Maki is hiding, which is shown as they immediately head down to her lab after Kirumi's trial.

During the first two chapters, I found Maki to be an enjoyable and well handled character. I think the writers did a good job at building up to her true talent in Chapter 2 as well as expanding on her characterization.

Unfortunately, that's all I have to say positively about Maki because from Chapter 3 on, I found her to be an insufferable character both in terms of writing and personality. Kind of funny that the period of time during the game where the writers tried to make me like Maki only made me hate her.

One of the biggest problems I had with Maki for the rest of the game was her new "Assassin" personality, which made her one of the most annoying characters in the series and really hindered my enjoyment for the character. I hated her "Assassin" personality for two reasons: A) how lazily portrayed her edginess was and B) how inconsistent it was to her character.

For the first point, I think what made me hate her edgy personality was because of how forced and uninspired it was in the story. Her catchphrase: "Do you want to die?" is the kind of cringy shit you would see middle schoolers write in their OC's to make them look cool. It's really funny that there are a couple of posts that point out how similar Maki is to Coldsteel the Hedgehog because it is so true! It feels like Kodaka took inspiration from that character and implemented those traits into Maki's assassin personality to try and say "Hey player! Look how badass and independent this girl is!" Her Assassin reveal absolutely ruined her original personality and what I loved about it. Instead of just being cold the writers turned her into an edge lord. Unlike Gundham or Ryoma though, Maki's edginess was not endearing at all and was just grating to sit though.

For my second point, I find Maki's threats to be really inconsistent to her character and why we should care about her. Around the beginning of Chapter 3, Maki explains that her assassin talent only pushes people away from her because they fear that she will kill them. This makes Maki feel loneliness and gives me a potential reason to redeem my love for her character(since the assassin talent reveal was really disappointing and I felt that the writers could have found better ways to explore her character). However, Maki goes on to make death threats on numerous occasions which diminishes any reason for me to care about her. And by death threats, I'm not only talking about her "Do you want to die?" catchphrase either. In Chapter 3, when the half of the cast is discussing about how to deal with the Student Council, Maki seriously suggests the idea of her killing Angie or one of the members with a complete straight face. And of course there's the fact that Maki tries to get everyone killed because of a mistake she made in Chapter 5, but I'll talk about that mess of writing later. Basically, why should I care about a character who's insecure on what people assume about her when she only goes on to confirm their assumptions?

Aside from hating her new personality, I despised the writing for Maki's character in the second half of the game because of how she is constantly praised throughout the latter half and how she doesn't suffer any repercussions in a particular chapter. These two factors: having your ass kissed, and not suffering consequences are qualities that I hate in a character. What hurts Maki's writing even more because of this is that Maki suffers from Creator's Pet Syndrome. It's pretty obvious by now that Maki is one of Kodaka's favorite characters from the game and the way Kodaka handles her character is...kind of pathetic. I say pathetic because their are multiple instances throughout the main story where Shuichi praises Maki and says stuff like: "You have changed so much" and "The old Maki wouldn't have done this" and I feel that these instances are moments where Kodaka is desperately trying to make the player like Maki by pointing out how she develops in the story. It's even more notable that this could be the case since no other character who has developed in the series ever received this kind of treatment before. There are hardly if not no instances in DR1 where Makoto praises Kirigiri for opening up to him and being more trusting. There are hardly if not no instances in DR2 where Hajime or the others praise Fuyuhiko for becoming a nicer person. So why does Maki get this kind of treatment? It seems like an extremely forced attempt by Kodaka to make the player love Maki the same way he loves her character and I find it to be annoying and only makes me care less about her character.

It doesn't end there though. Not only does Kodaka have Maki's ass kissed by the narrative, but he also fails to acknowledge Maki's actions throughout the story. I'm of course talking about her actions in Chapter 5. Not only does Maki go against the group's promise to meet with each other in the morning and go and save Kaito together, but she also throws them under the bus and tries to get them killed for a mistake she made. I think this moment is very in-character for Maki as it is shown by Chapter 2 that Maki is not good at planning things ahead. However, the way she is treated for her actions is...incredibly unrealistic and just plain bad writing. Shuichi and the others don't call out Maki for making a shitty and selfish decision, but they actually praise her because they are now one step closer to the truth. This point solidified my hatred for Maki and how she is written in the story. Maki faces no consequences and is yet again praised for something awful that she did. Compare this situation to Asahina's actions back in DR1 as they are really similar. However the resolution is entirely different. Asahina, who was way more justified to do what she did, was still called out for her actions and ended up apologizing to the others. Maki, on the other hand, suffers no consequences for her selfish actions. Why though? Is it because Kodaka is afraid that the story pointing out Maki's flaws will make fans like her less? Oh, but Kodaka doesn't have Asahina as her favorite character so fuck her? What pisses me off so much about this scene and at Kodaka was because this isn't the first time where Kodaka places a character on a pedestal and lets them suffer no consequences. I am of course talking about Makoto in DR3 where his actions to give terrorists who destroyed the world a second chance are portrayed in the right, but the people who opposed Makoto's decision are portrayed as idiots and end up dying of being outcasted while Makoto doesn't lose anything from the decision. It was huge problem with Makoto's writing and it's a huge problem here with Maki's writing.

I also see people point out that Kaito is a huge creator's pet as well. I do agree with this, as Kaito also gets praises a lot during the story and in his FTE's. However, I love Kaito so when I look at why his character works for me and why Maki's character doesn't I realized another huge problem with Maki: her character revolves entirely around Kaito. Looking back through the story, Maki only really interacts with Kaito. Her interactions with Shuichi never felt natural because their conversations either had to do with Kaito or for investigative purposes. The only exception to this is Kokichi in Chapter 5, but even then their conflict had to do with Kaito in some way. Because of this, Maki's interactions felt really limited and unimpressive for the most part and didn't make for a dynamic character. Contrast that with Kaito who has multiple interesting and unique relationships with the cast. His supportive friendship with Shuichi and Maki. His conflict with Kokichi and Ryoma. And he even has a couple of sweet moments with Kaede. Not only that, but the narrative brings his flaws to light in Chapter 4 instead of glorifying them with Maki. These aspects are what make me love Kaito yet hate Maki, so while I do get annoyed when some characters get blatant favoritism from the creators, I do believe that they can still be handled well.

Maki Harukawa suffers from a series of bad writing decisions in the story which can all be traced back to her reveal as the SHSL Assassin. It's a shame since I found her to be a great character before that reveal and I feel that a lot of her writing flaws could have been fixed if the writers kept her character as the SHSL Caregiver. If they removed her edgy personality entirely and wrote her character realistically, she could have been a far less controversial character here and in Japan.

EDIT: I forgot to talk about Maki's FTE's but I'll just say that they contradict the main story. Maki says in the post trial of Chapter 5 that Kaito was the first person that Maki ever fought to protect, yet in her FTE's Maki volunteered to be an assassin to protect her friend from being pulled into the assassin industry.

What pisses me off so much about this scene and at Kodaka was because this isn't the first time where Kodaka places a character on a pedestal and lets them suffer no consequences. I am of course talking about Makoto in DR3 where his actions to give terrorists who destroyed the world a second chance are portrayed in the right, but the people who opposed Makoto's decision are portrayed as idiots and end up dying of being outcasted while Makoto doesn't lose anything from the decision. It was huge problem with Makoto's writing and it's a huge problem here with Maki's writing.

This is a really consistent issue in the series. I'm gonna be bringing it up when we get to Angie's discussion. It happened with Munakata, it happened in all of Ultra Despair Girls, and it happened here. It's not even that I'd necessarily side with or agree with those characters, but they're just right with nothing in the tone of the series suggesting otherwise, and the other side has to be idiotic. I don't find Maki to be the worst character because there are still a few that are so much more painful to sit through for me.

I also have to point out how they do the "one of the girls is actually a killer" reveal in chapter two a third time in a row...

I didn't notice that about Angie, but you're absolutely right. Just adds another problem I have to the Student Council plot.

I don't find Maki to be the worst character because there are still a few that are so much more painful to sit through for me.

You're probably talking about Shuichi, Kokichi, and the Monokubs right? I remember you talking about why you hated them so much in your V3 reviews.

I also have to point out how they do the "one of the girls is actually a killer" reveal in chapter two a third time in a row...

They also did the "this character is actually a serial killer" reveal in two of the three games.

Yeah, more or less. The Monokubs are pretty low for me, but Shuichi and Kokichi are the big ones.

We had serial Killer Toko, hitman Peko, and assassin Maki. Wonder what they'll do next.

Yeah, more or less. The Monokubs are pretty low for me, but Shuichi and Kokichi are the big ones.

As I thought. I don't think I will ever see eye to eye about Kokichi since I find him to be my favorite character in the series, but I agree with your complaints about Shuichi, though not as extreme.

Contrast that with Kaito who has multiple interesting and unique relationships with the cast. His supportive friendship with Shuichi and Maki. His conflict with Kokichi and Ryoma. And he even has a couple of sweet moments with Kaede. Not only that, but the narrative brings his flaws to light in Chapter 4 instead of glorifying them with Maki.

To start off, i can't see any of his interactions with the cast as unique, with the single exception being kokichi. He has the same attitude towards everyone in the cast, shouting inspirational mumbo jumbo and hoping they do something about themselves because he is never the one that needs to change. How could he possibly be? It's Kaito! Nothing he says or does is wrong.

He's like an unwavering stone of a character that just refuses to move in any direction whatsoever, the Kaito in chapter 5 is still the same guy from chapter 1 and hasn't achieved anything of notice on his own, wich would be okay if not for the fact that he takes central stage whenever he starts talking. He is treated like some pillar of excelence that doesn't need to change a single bit throughout the game, and he doesn't, every single character treats his idiotic bravado like it's some sort of mindblowing statement of awesomeness and a beacon to a britghter future for themselves when in reality he must have taken all that stuff from his favourite manga. And even though he does get called out on his bullshit in chapter 4, it lasts for no more than the next day and it is followed by one of the most blatantly "Heroic" executions in the whole franchise, where he is appearently so badass he doesn't even let monokuma kill him. We don't even get the satisfaction of him admitting his way of thinking was to extreme and that he should have been more rational, the guy is so unwavering in his ideas he can't bring himself to look sad even when he's about to die in front of the girl who loves him.

To start off, i can't see any of his interactions with the cast as unique, with the single exception being kokichi. He has the same attitude towards everyone in the cast

So nothing about his disappointment in Ryoma? His inferiority complex with Saihara? His buddy-buddy relationship with Yumeno? On objective level, those are different interactions than other relationships he has.

He's like an unwavering stone of a character that just refuses to move in any direction whatsoever,

That's the point of his arc. He's someone who refuses to become accepting of his flaws and continues to try and keep up his hero facade, making him a bigger liar than half of the cast.

the Kaito in chapter 5 is still the same guy from chapter 1 and hasn't achieved anything of notice on his own,

False. I don't see how anybody who paid attention can say this. Kaito's whole arc is built on character development. He's constantly trying to hide his flaws from others and himself only to be confronted on said flaws and it's extremely obvious in Chapter 5 that he's come to accept said flaws and done his best to improve. You can't say a character who objectively had development had no development. It's whether you think that development is good or not that you should critique.

wich would be okay if not for the fact that he takes central stage whenever he starts talking.

That's the point.

He is treated like some pillar of excelence that doesn't need to change a single bit throughout the game, and he doesn't, every single character treats his idiotic bravado like it's some sort of mindblowing statement of awesomeness and a beacon to a britghter future for themselves when in reality he must have taken all that stuff from his favourite manga.

I refuse to accept you played Chapter 4 because it goes against every single thing you just said. Just because Kaito's portrayed as a heroic person doesn't mean his bias, hypocrisy, blind faith, stupidity and his jealousy is portrayed in a good light.

And even though he does get called out on his bullshit in chapter 4

First you say he doesn't get called out and now you're saying he gets called out.

it lasts for no more than the next day

It takes up half of his screentime in Chapter 5 and the other half is dedicated to overcoming his ideals and accepting that you can't have faith without logic/belief without doubt. That's what his exchange with Kokichi is about and supposed to symbolize.

and it is followed by one of the most blatantly "Heroic" executions in the whole franchise,

Yeah, skip a fuck ton of his actions, development and characterization of the biggest chapter involvement he has. That'll be great criticism.

where he is appearently so badass he doesn't even let monokuma kill him.

It's supposed to parallel Jin's execution by having the opposite end, showing the start and end of Danganronpa.

We don't even get the satisfaction of him admitting his way of thinking was to extreme and that he should have been more rational,

We do. We literally do. Both internally and externally. We obviously know by the end of Chapter 4 and throughout Chapter 5 that he's accepted it and he flat out admits it in the window scene between him and Saihara. He admits he's flawed.

the guy is so unwavering in his ideas he can't bring himself to look sad even when he's about to die in front of the girl who loves him.

Because he's satisfied with what he's accomplished. He's dying anyway so he's glad he could accomplish so much before he died. His happiness and confidence has nothing to do with his ideals, where the hell did you get that impression?

Sorry if I sound a little miffed, but I didn't realized someone could misunderstand Kaito's character this horribly. The only way this overview could be worse is if you complained he was a sexist homophobe.

Holy shit, what kind of stick i had up my ass when i wrote this? Geez. I dislike him on a personal level but damn, i must've been half asleep when i wrote this crap. My apologies for you having to deal with one my worst structured arguments in a while.

You are doing God's work pointing out this guys bullshit filled argument while I was busy.

gotta say you put most of my thoughts into words really well.

I can't help but feel that you've misinterpreted what happened in Case 5 (or perhaps it's more fair to say, we intemperate the events quite differently).

While Maki did stray from the plan, so did Himiko (bringing the crossbow) and Shuichi (sneaking in alone). I also think that K1-B0 likely would have gone in too had he come up with a solid plan of his own. It's hardly fair to solely blame Maki for not sticking to the script, it's just that she wascapable of pulling off more. Her actions were an act of passion (blame Tsumugi for that) which may have been poorly thought out, but were done with the game plan of "Now that the mastermind has revealed himself, I will sacrifice myself so that Kaito, Shuichi and the rest can escape". This isn't selfish at all, even if a little stupid of her to throw her life away. Then again, her backstory gave her a complex that her life wasn't as important as everyone else's so her actions can be internally justified (again, blame Tsumugi for that)

There is no moment at all that I can recall which implies that she is planning to sell everybody up the river to escape from the game either. Her actions seem to be a refusal in part to accept what has happened. She makes herself believe that Kokichi has killed Kaito because she cannot accept the possibility that she was the one who did it. From what she had been manipulated to see, Kokichi had drank the cure so for her there was one of two outcomes: The most likely one that Kokichi killed Kaito and is trying to kill everyone now, or she really did kill Kaito and she was going to take Kokichi down with her. She wanted to take the trial to the end and see Kokichi burn for his crimes, and the possibility of it going any other route didn't add up to what she had seen.

Yes, it's reckless to let emotions cloud your judgement in these moment, but by no means did her actions have the same intent as most (but not all) blackened, Aoi in 1:4 or Nagito in... well, most of DR2. This is likely why it's never brought up: Because that's not the intent of the chapter at all. Maki isn't trying to win the game, she probably doesn't even care if she survives, she just wants to take down the Mastermind (Kokichi at this point) to protect the few if only things she cares about. And as far as Maki saw, the only outcome she could believe in was that Kokichi killed Kaito.

Also, don't forget that in the final chapter, it's her who calmly decides to sacrifice herself along with K1-B0 when Himiko and Shuichi are still freaking out about everything. This isn't the act of a selfish person.

I see your point, although the promise she made with the plan was that she promised she wouldn't try to kill Kokichi, which Saihara and Yumeno weren't trying to do.

Also, while I understand the rest, I have no clue where you got your explanation of her motives in the trial. Maki explains what she was doing word-for-word. She wanted to defeat Kokichi in exchange for everyone else's lives after her other attempt to end the killing game failed after she believed she killed Kaito. Sure, you can headcanon she genuinely believed it was Kokichi out of denial, but Maki herself specifically explains that she was trying to get Kokichi voted out and the vote would be wrong, and there's no implications otherwise. Unless if I missed something and her entire confession after being exposed(which she was comforted into confessing out of honesty might I add) was a lie.

I've had to go back and watch this bit on Youtube because I honestly couldn't remember it. I can only conclude this revelation just had little impact on me. I think I was a bit like Shuichi at the end of her confession and was just like "yes, yes, that's nice Maki, but let's get back to how Kokichi actually died." Well, I don't mind playing Devil's Advocate some more so I'll have a crack at this again with a refreshed memory.

I can kind of see why there would be justification in Maki's actions, albeit they're maybe poorly spelt out in game because Shuichi does just move the trial along quickly from it. She's screwed up her one shot against the mastermind, someone she "remembers" is an evil terrorist who will stop at nothing to kill them all, and the other four people left spent the last few days laying in their beds giving up before she told them to get up. If Kaito and her are gone, there's nothing stopping Kokichi just holding another hostage, only this time there would be nobody left with the power to stop him. It's easy to see that she will think that this is the only way to stop Kokichi and shut down Ultimate Despair for good. With her supposed upbringing in her FTEs (let's go ahead and blame Tsumugi again for this one), it can even explain her rational here that sometimes you have to do something terrible to stop something evil. Kaito stirring the pot in the trial and rushing things along because it helped his plan didn't help this.

It was said a little higher up that Aoi was more justified when she tried it. I disagree entirely with that and Aoi is one of my favourites. Aoi was just as manipulated as Maki was, but she still tried to drag the completely innocent Makoto and Kyoko down with everybody else and was doing this out of blind vengeance. Maki was taking zero pleasure in her choice and seeing it as a necessary evil. She gives in quickly though, and is even quicker to follow Shuichi in the belief that he can find another way to defeat Kokichi, so she didn't seem that dedicated to the cause really.

I don't know, it's just not something I'm going to hold against her character, especially as her volunteering to be sacrificed in Chapter 6 kind of redeems her past transgressions. The manipulation of Kokichi, the lies clouding her judgement from Tsumugi and Kaito's unexpected save left her in a bad position and she made a stupid choice she felt backed into but didn't commit to. I guess because it left such little impact on me in what I thought was the most obvious trial in the game that I'm a little surprised that this is the moment that based on the comments in here made a lot of people turn on her.

I'm not faulting Maki for her actions. I was just saying that the game was conveying an entirely different motive for Maki than what you said. However, I have to disagree with Asahina and Maki being exactly on par. This is from the numbers and masses, as well as former circumstances. Asahina was sacrificing two innocent people from the price of 3 and was going to die herself while Maki was sacrificing 5 for 1. Another thing is the reason a murder occurred in the first place was because of Maki(Yes, Mugi and Kokichi played huge parts into the murder happening, but Maki choosing to attack is what ultimately caused the murder) while Asahina didn't cause the murder in Chapter 4, meaning people fault Maki more for not owning up to her mistakes and continuing to dig her hole deeper.

I'm not going to fault Maki but that's my take.

I was looking forward to your comment!

Well I hope I delivered!

Hina was accepted back into the group even though she's literally the only person who tried to kill everyone for the sake of killing everyone. All the other murderers at least in theory were doing it to save themselves. But she doesn't get called out as some kind of monster and she receives nothing close to what Byakuya gets for just messing around with corpses for fun. The only difference between she and Kyoko or Maki is that since Kodaka clearly doesn't care about Hina you don't see some blurb about how awesome Hina is, but fundamentally DR handles these failed murder attempts in the same way. The only difference is that it becomes more offensive if it's a Kodaka's Pet because then you also get to hear about how awesome these guys are.

In retrospect Kyoko may have been the most non-offensive of such type characters, and that's because Kyoko plausibly could've been just a 'winner in life', as in she plausibly could've been sheltered from all possible failure prior to the games thanks to her dad to develop that kind of personality, and the killing game exactly plays into her strength. I'm sure that's not the intention, but if a character in theory has reason to be awesome it's at least tolerable. The problem is that most of Kodaka's pet aren't actually awesome in any measureable way and we still have to hear about it.

What is so bad about being edgy?

I never said I disliked edgy characters. I just have a problem with how Maki's edginess is portrayed.

Maki... Yeah... She's not exactly the most flavorful character in the series. I'd even say she's probably the least interesting character in V3. I don't hate her, but even with her "twist" of being the Ultimate Assassin she doesn't make much impact...

But I'm getting ahead of myself. In the beginning she claims to be the Ultimate Child Caregiver, which it seems like everyone is a little skeptical of given her cold demeanor. Her secrecy is quite obvious, in fact, especially when she won't let anyone into her lab. By comparison, Mukuro (our other fighty person who happens to have disguised herself) managed to avoid suspicion up until her somewhat early death. The only person that even noted anything unusual was Makoto, who seemingly disregarded his suspicions when she gave an excuse. And then up until Junko reveals that she's still alive, even the Ultimate Detective thinks Mukuro is the one pulling the strings because they still haven't figured out her ruse. Granted, there were no labs in DR1, but I have a feeling that if Maki had been the one in that disguise, people would be questioning who she was before the first murder.

Maki's tendency to lash out at people also seems very out of place for someone whose entire job is to be a cold-blooded killer, and it's indicative of one of my major gripes with her: she's pretty conspicuous. An assassin should be able to make a kill then get away without drawing suspicion, and not only does Maki fail to not draw suspicion when she DOES attempt murder, she draws attention even when she wasn't even involved in the murder, and that was BEFORE people even knew she was an assassin! For someone like Kaito who is known to be aggressive it's one thing, but if we're still following the trend of Ultimates having near-supernatural skill in their talent then Maki doesn't feel like she deserves to be called the Ultimate Assassin... In fact, if I was in charge of her organization and she stuck out like that after all her training, I'd probably decide she was a liability and have her removed.

And speaking of attempted murder, she fails to even kill the person she was trying to get. Some Ultimate Assassin she turned out to be! Maybe she actually is the Ultimate Child Caregiver, and the Ultimate Assassin title was the real ruse all along! Compared to Mukuro, who seems to be near perfect at every aspect of her talent (and only "near" because she got caught by an ambush from Junko), it's no contest who earned their title more, and I'd be willing to bet any other character would similarly outmatch Maki at being talented...

For her role as a "big 3" character... Well, more like "Big 4" if we count Kokichi... or "5" if we count Kaede... but her role doesn't feel involved enough to really cement her place alongside Kyoko, Nagito, Byakuya, and Chiaki as a major support character. She hangs out with Kaito and Shuichi, but apart from trials 5 and 6, I can't remember her doing much of anything to help solve murders. I guess she's Kaito's love interest, but apart from maybe being kinda cute if you like both of them, it doesn't add much to Maki. It sort of makes Kaito feel like he's the real main character as well, which isn't great when we're supposed to get immersed in Shuichi's struggle.

On her interactions with others... She seems to struggle. I don't know if I would call her an asshole, but casually threatening to kill someone as a greeting and outright assaulting someone doesn't exactly make her look good. Granted, Kokichi is an annoying prick and I doubt many would argue he didn't deserve it, but she clearly doesn't connect with people like a person should, and her tendency toward threats and violence means she's far more grating than cute and quirky. She doesn't even seem to be trying to improve, she's still saying "You wanna die" during the final chapter as casually as when she said it to Shuichi the first time. If it wasn't for the tragic backstory and her place in the "main" cast, I think she would probably be one of the least popular characters in the franchise. Hell, if Akane and Hiyoko are any indication, even the tragic backstory wouldn't help if she wasn't given the spotlight.

I've heard her referred to as a "fanfic OC" before and I don't think it's inaccurate. She has a talent that's barely demonstrated but is expected to be believed in, a backstory that's forcibly tragic to an almost ludicrous degree, a design that invokes some popular characters from previous games (color scheme and red eyes from Izuru, Celestia, and Ishimaru, twintails from Hiyoko, Celestia, and Junko), and the plot seemingly bending over backward to give her a better deal than anyone else. Overall, she feels more like the pet character of an amateur writer that can't decide who he wants her to be than a supposedly fleshed out character built into the actual canon. Even Junko, who I have alluded to in the past as an example of poor writing post-DR1, still makes for a more interesting character with her "I can do anything and nobody can stop me" bullshit than Maki does.

I guess maybe we could argue it's intentional, and the writers in-universe decided to use the character her "actor" chose to be verbatim instead of editing it to be a more coherent personality? Or maybe she was meant to be the true ultimate assassin, but her previous personality wasn't completely wiped out so she ended up being a bit off compared to what they intended? Frankly, I think a more dangan-esque twist on an assassin character would be a girl who seemed sweet and trustworthy, but who could smile in your face as she stabbed you in the ribs then plead innocence so well that even eyewitnesses would start to doubt her guilt. Would've fit the theme of truth and lies as well, so it seems like a big missed opportunity.

And then there's her motivations. As far as I can tell, the only thing she wants is to hang out with Kaito. She doesn't seem to care about the rest of the class, to the extent that she's willing to kill everyone else, including herself, to get revenge for being "tricked" into killing the luminary of the stars. She wants to kill Kokichi as well, but doesn't act to do so until he starts being a dick to Kaito. For a cast who usually all have their own motivations as well as a reason to want to get out of the killing game alive, it seems hollow for her to have so little driving her forward. She doesn't even seem to want to live that much, and is open about the fact that she'll probably be executed by her former employer when she leaves. I'd go so far as to argue that she shouldn't have been one of the survivors, because anyone else (including Tsumugi with her role as mastermind intact) would've been a more satisfying choice.

At least she has the amusing nickname of "Roll roll", that makes things a little better.

I just have a problem with your second to last paragraph here...

And then there's her motivations. As far as I can tell, the only thing she wants is to hang out with Kaito. She doesn't seem to care about the rest of the class

I guess Asahina doesn't cares about the rest of her class as well because she tried to kill them while under a moment of emotional instability.

to the extent that she's willing to kill everyone else, including herself, to get revenge for being "tricked" into killing the luminary of the stars.

No, she was determined to kill Kokichi and only him. But "he" appeared in the trial inside an Exisal so the only way to kill him would be to sacrifice the others by making everyone vote wrongly and get Kokichi killed because of the trial rules since at that point in time Maki still believed she was the true blackened.

She wants to kill Kokichi as well, but doesn't act to do so until he starts being a dick to Kaito.

He was being a dick to everyone. And she only takes action to kill him after she "remembers" he was a RoD due to the flashback light, so she saw what she was doing as a personal sacrifice to end the killing game and free everyone.

For a cast who usually all have their own motivations as well as a reason to want to get out of the killing game alive, it seems hollow for her to have so little driving her forward.

Her last conversation with Kaito was about how she finally could learn to like herself and live proudly. key word being "live".

She doesn't even seem to want to live that much, and is open about the fact that she'll probably be executed by her former employer when she leaves

Yeah, that's her before she develops.

I'd go so far as to argue that she shouldn't have been one of the survivors, because anyone else (including Tsumugi with her role as mastermind intact) would've been a more satisfying choice.

It's fine to want other survivors and even different ones but implying Mastermind Tsumugi would be a better choice than Maki? You must be kidding. It would not only kill the whole message of the epilogue but also make Tsumugi into an unlikable karma houdini.

Asahina

Asahina thought that her friend had been driven to suicide, so yes, at the time she wanted the other characters to die and cared more about her friend than about them. Maki was ostensibly meant to care about the rest of the cast, but decided sacrificing them all was a fair price for getting rid of Kokichi. If it was just about saving everyone from the "Remnant of Despair", then killing them to get rid of him would entirely defeat the purpose. She may have been justified in attacking him, but that doesn't excuse her hiding the truth in the trial explicitly trying to get everyone killed by making them vote wrong.

Her last conversation with Kaito

I can't remember what was said during that conversation. Definitely doesn't help my stance on her motivations, but it does reinforce that whole "Doesn't make much impact" point I said in the beginning of my original comment...

Tsumugi

I genuinely find Tsumugi to be a more interesting character than Maki, and while it might not be "better" I do think it would've been more satisfying to have her get out. She didn't really get executed, she literally got crushed under a rock that happened to fall on her during the end sequence, and it just felt anticlimactic. Danganronpa has never been fair, with people like Junko succeeding while people like... well, the rest of the cast suffer, and it feels like Tsumugi slipping out and staying alive despite being the mastermind would've been fitting with how she was acting... But I don't want to get too in-depth with Tsumugi right now, since her analysis is in two weeks and I don't want to blow all my material now. So I'll just say that my opinion on what a good ending would be is my opinion and you don't have to agree.

Not to say I would have Maki die during the final trial instead, that WOULD be pretty stupid, but every other game had more survivors in the end so I legitimately thought that the last trial might end with nobody dying... Also, I don't understand how Tsumugi's survival would invalidate the "the story lives on" message at the end of V3.

Asahina thought that her friend had been driven to suicide, so yes, at the time she wanted the other characters to die and cared more about her friend than about them.

In the proccess she would kill both Kyoko and Makoto, who didn't mistreat Sakura and were entirely innocent in that whole deal.

Maki was ostensibly meant to care about the rest of the cast, but decided sacrificing them all was a fair price for getting rid of Kokichi.

You analysed the context for the Asahina situation but you can't here? Maki decided to sacrifice them because she truly believed that they all had nothing else to live for, they were all ready to commit suicide a day ago, the world was basically over and she didn't trust any of them with trying to get rid of Kokichi if she ended up dying (she lost trust in Shuichi the moment he didn't stand up to Kokichi and gave him the Hangar controller.), futhermore going by her backstory, it was not the first time she had to sacrifice friends. And she clearly cared for the friends she had to kill.

In the end though, she gives up on her plan rather easily once Shuichi regains her trust.

it was just about saving everyone from the "Remnant of Despair", then killing them to get rid of him would entirely defeat the purpose

Her original goal was to kill the one she perceived as the mastermind (because of the flashback light) in order to save everyone. Of course, things didn't go according to plan and in her view she ended up killing Kaito. Due to that she was already an emotional mess when she decided to kill Ouma no matter what when he appeared in the trial bur since "he" safeguarded himself with the Exisal, she decided that the others would have to be collateral damage in the proccess of killing Ouma through the killing game rules.

She may have been justified in attacking him, but that doesn't excuse her hiding the truth in the trial explicitly trying to get everyone killed by making them vote wrong.

Already explained why she did that but TL;DR

1) Lack of trust in others

2) Despair in general

3) Emotional instability

4) Experience with having to kill those she considered her friends in the past.

In the end though, she let go of her plan once Shuichi regained her trust. Sooner than Asahina did actually, since Asahina took the whole trial and the aftermath to wake up.

I genuinely find Tsumugi to be a more interesting character than Maki, and while it might not be "better" I do think it would've been more satisfying to have her get out.

It's not a question of who you found more interesting. Tsumugi worked for the "big bad" of the game, she was the one of the main responsible people for all of the suffering the cast went through, If she did not receive her just desserts in the end, that would send such a twisted message to the players.

But I don't want to get too in-depth with Tsumugi right now, since her analysis is in two weeks and I don't want to blow all my material now. So I'll just say that my opinion on what a good ending would be is my opinion and you don't have to agree.

An ending where the mastermind behind the killing lives is not a good ending. No matter what you try to twist on it.

Not to say I would have Maki die during the final trial instead, that WOULD be pretty stupid, but every other game had more survivors in the end so I legitimately thought that the last trial might end with nobody dying... Also, I don't understand how Tsumugi's survival would invalidate the "the story lives on" message at the end of V3.

The message of the epilogue that I was talking about was that, at least for that moment, what was the truth and what was the lie regarding their backstory didn't really matter, what mattered was that they fought against a horrible truth and even though they were fictional beings, they ultimately came out on top.

Tsumugi surviving (the one who would obviously know the truth about their backstories and who undermined their worth by claiming they were just fictional) would undermine both of those themes.

I can't remember what was said during that conversation. Definitely doesn't help my stance on her motivations, but it does reinforce that whole "Doesn't make much impact" point I said in the beginning of my original comment.

Her backstory is not directly relevant to the plot (which is a given considering the end game twist) but how she developed and what she went through is a key component of what made her agree with Shuichi in the last trial.

Jesus christ, you really go all out on picking at the weeds, don't you?

Again with Asahina

It's one thing to want people to die because you think they've done wrong, it's quite another to decide FOR them that they have nothing to live for. I certainly don't like Gonta's motive for working with Kokichi in the 4th chapter, and I'm not gonna spare Maki the same criticism. As for Kyoko and Makoto, I'm not pretending Asahina wasn't in the wrong, I'm just saying that it seems like killing two "innocents" and herself to punish everyone she saw as evil seems more forgivable than punishing what to her knowledge was all of humanity to get rid of one person.

Emotional instability

That's not much of an excuse on its own. While I certainly don't want to presume how distraught people might act under pressure, Maki's actions don't really feel the same as someone like Owada who killed entirely on an impulse and whose trial was only complicated by someone else's fuckery. She seems to have put more effort and thought into getting people to vote wrong, even if Shuichi figured it out.

I also don't like using Despair as an excuse for doing terrible things, so that's definitely affecting my judgement, but if you do then good for you.

If she did not receive her just desserts in the end, that would send such a twisted message to the players.

Yes, you know, because a series about high school students being forced to murder each other is where people go to learn good morals. If you're going to say that Tsumugi needs to be punished, surely all of Team Danganronpa needs to be punished even more for putting on ALL the killing games. Hell, maybe the whole world that's watching and supporting the killing games should be punished, since they've all witnessed hundreds of teenagers suffering and murdering each other for their entertainment and seemingly never did anything up until the 6th trial of this killing game.

An ending where the mastermind behind the killing lives is not a good ending...

Tsumugi surviving (the one who would obviously know the truth about their backstories and who undermined their worth by claiming they were just fictional) would undermine those themes.

We're just gonna have to disagree on this... No, not agree to disagree, I don't care whether you agree or not, but I'm not having an argument entirely based on subjective personal opinions about what a good or bad ending would be.

Jesus christ, you really go all out on picking at the weeds, don't you?

I just think you are misinterpreting a few things regarding Maki's storyline, no hard feelings.

It's one thing to want people to die because you think they've done wrong, it's quite another to decide FOR them that they have nothing to live for. I certainly don't like Gonta's motive for working with Kokichi in the 4th chapter, and I'm not gonna spare Maki the same criticism.

I'm not trying to defend her, I'm just trying to make you understand why that decision made sense for Maki to take atm and why it doesn't makes her into someone who didn't care about the cast.

1) She was already used to killing people she cared about for her goals. We know that from her backstory. She also didn't trust the others to deal with Kokichi if she died, she was afraid of dying without getting to kill him.

2) There is precedent for her reasoning since the V3 cast were all about to consider suicide before Maki called them and showed them the flashback light she found.

3) Futhermore, her decision to sacrifice them wasn't cold and logical, it was extremely emotionally driven, which is why she gives up on her plan rather quickly after she regains her trust on Shuichi.

As for Kyoko and Makoto, I'm not pretending Asahina wasn't in the wrong, I'm just saying that it seems like killing two "innocents" and herself to punish everyone she saw as evil seems more forgivable than punishing what to her knowledge was all of humanity to get rid of one person.

They are under the impression that there is no humanity left though? Why do you think Gonta chose to do that to Miu in chapter 4? Because the state of the world was so horrible for them that frankly dying would be the easier option.

That's not much of an excuse on its own. While I certainly don't want to presume how distraught people might act under pressure, Maki's actions don't really feel the same as someone like Owada who killed entirely on an impulse and whose trial was only complicated by someone else's fuckery. She seems to have put more effort and thought into getting people to vote wrong, even if Shuichi figured it out.

More thought to it? The only thing she did was scream that Kokichi was the killer and then ineffectually try to disrupt Shuichi's claims. It may have seemed as if she had some sort of plan because the person in the Exisal was helping her but she had none.

I also don't like using Despair as an excuse for doing terrible things, so that's definitely affecting my judgement, but if you do then good for you.

I mean, she didn't do a terrible thing. She tried to but gave up on it as soon as Shuichi regained her trust.

Yes, you know, because a series about high school students being forced to murder each other is where people go to learn good morals.

DR was always a pretty hopeful series despite all of the despair. It's possible to get good morals out of it.

If you're going to say that Tsumugi needs to be punished, surely all of Team Danganronpa needs to be punished even more for putting on ALL the killing games

Let's hope for a UDG 2 so that we can see that first hand.

But I think the game already implies that, do you remember the building that appears in the title screenshot that has "Team Danganronpa" in it? That seems an obvious reference to their HQ and by the end of the game it's all broken and in state of misery.

Hell, maybe the whole world that's watching and supporting the killing games should be punished, since they've all witnessed hundreds of teenagers suffering and murdering each other for their entertainment and seemingly never did anything up until the 6th trial of this killing game.

The majority of the world seems to have turned around a new leaf and genuinely meant it too, since they probably chose to let Keebo let the survivors alive. Of course that doesn't excuses them for having supported a sick game like DR for 53 seasons but it makes them better than someone like Tsumugi, who wanted the game to continue even after everything she listened.

We're just gonna have to disagree on this... No, not agree to disagree, I don't care whether you agree or not, but I'm not having an argument entirely based on subjective personal opinions about what a good or bad ending would be.

It's not even subjective. Tsumugi surviving undermines those two themes, that's pretty undeniably bad even if you don't care for it just because you hate Maki's guts and would rather have the actual antagonist of the game surviving instead of her.

It's not a question of who you found more interesting. Tsumugi worked for the "big bad" of the game, she was the one of the main responsible people for all of the suffering the cast went through, If she did not receive her just desserts in the end, that would send such a twisted message to the players.

This isn't really consistent with how Danganronpa is in general. Monaca survives Ultra Despair Girls and becomes a more-or-less comedic character in DR3, and the Remnants of Despair/Izuru Kamukura survive DR2 and are basically considered to have redeemed themselves. In general Danganronpa assumes that literally anything can be more-or-less forgiven other than the crime of being Junko Enoshima.

This isn't really consistent with how Danganronpa is in general. Monaca survives Ultra Despair Girls and becomes a more-or-less comedic character in DR3

Monaca was a despicable little shit but she was also just a kid who was obviously warped by Junko's BS, it's easy to forget that with all the screwed up shit she pulls. I'm not trying to excuse her but I don't think killing her at the end of UDG would have changed anything, her plan had already failed and if anything her not dying added more value to Komaru's choice of not killing anyone.

and the Remnants of Despair/Izuru Kamukura survive DR2 and are basically considered to have redeemed themselves

I consider DR2's Mastermind to have been Junko. Kamukura was just the instigator, the story (and DR3) clearly paints the DR2 cast as victims too.

In general Danganronpa assumes that literally anything can be more-or-less forgiven other than the crime of being Junko Enoshima.

I think that's an exaggeration. Monaca wasn't "forgiven", she just fled because, thanks to Komaeda, she began to grow bored of the whole hope and despair deal. And the DR2 cast were always painted as victims, DR3 confirmed that.

I don't like her. Her "do you wanna die? :)" in Ch6 is the cringiest moment in the game easily, especially because of Shuichi's "Haha she's not serious!" after. DR in general has a huge problem with spelling out characters' development and this is exactly what happens with Maki at the end of Case 5 when Kaito is dying and saying goodbye

I will say I don't necessarily mind that the game "forces" her on you since every game has main characters, though I still don't think DR does as good a job of making the entire cast feel special as opposed to say, 999

The last thing I'll talk about with Maki is her fanbase: you guys are pretty cool. Some character fanbases are so bad that they bleed into my feelings of the character but you guys are better than some fanbases of characters I like. So, good job

Edit: She also easily wins the holy grail of shit award for my least favorite sprites in the game. Good lord are some of these bad

https://i.imgur.com/hj1mOLL.png
https://i.imgur.com/d3A0dOj.png
https://i.imgur.com/suEqOTC.png
https://i.imgur.com/1iDQ7ry.png
https://i.imgur.com/QENxIvw.png
https://i.imgur.com/4eEm2YO.png

The last thing I'll talk about with Maki is her fanbase: you guys are pretty cool. Some character fanbases are so bad that they bleed into my feelings of the character but you guys are better than some fanbases of characters I like. So, good job

That's actually really funny that you pointed it out because you're so true! I never once got into an argument with a Maki fan even after all the negative comments I posted about her.

That's actually really funny that you pointed it out because you're so true! I never once got into an argument with a Maki fan even after all the negative comments I posted about her.

I wouldn't count that as an indication of a fanbase being good or bad. People are normally defensive of their tastes and from what I've seen Maki's fanbase just isn't that outspoken.

I just realized Maki is T-Posing in some of her sprites. this character is 100% improved now that I know this

You said it well. That line is extra cringey when you know she was perfectly willing to kill everyone just a chapter ago. The fact that Himiko was willing to even talk to her after being thrown under the bus was fun too.

Thinking about it, I kind of like the idea of maybe Maki being blackmailed by using the poison to take out Kaito, so she feels like he's still in danger of dying and is trying to save him and thinks if she kills Kokichi, she has a chance. If you change the rules to only kill off the voted party, that could really make her character more compelling since it gives her a way to misdirect the class trial without having to have the whole "willing to kill everyone" thing hanging over her head, and it'd help mirror her backstory if she's being forced into acting the way she is.

Maki's fanbase is a pretty cool set of cats though.

I always thought the whole 'everyone dies' deal pretty much prevent any semblance of nuanced character development. I know they're always trying to go with the 'soandso had a reason to do this!' but I don't see how anybody would possibly ever work with someone who tried to kill everyone no matter what reason they have.

Heck, DR3 is basically about sacrificing a guy (maybe more than once) and everyone else will live, and look at how hard it was to get Makoto to volunteer to kill himself. I'm guessing DR thinks there's more tension with the whole everyone dies deal, but it's not like anyone really believes that's actually going to happen. It'd be more suspenseful under a DR3 model where you only have to kill one guy but you don't know who, because at least you don't know when it'll end. In the standard DR model you know nobody's going to ever succeed in killing everyone.

Yeah, aside from a few DR 2 cases and 1 DR 1 case, none of the cases really benefit from the mass execution setup and a number of V3 cases are actually hurt by it.

I like the idea of a rule where you have to present evidence to implicate someone and basically make your case (or Monokuma will just kill everyone since he doesn't want a boring outcome--and this would work better and be more fitting for what they were doing at the end of V3 Anyway) but instead have it where only the person who gets voted is executed, right or wrong.

You still have to rely on the evidence and solve that way, but it eliminates the implication of having to indirectly kill everyone, which restricts a lot of the writing you can do with the cases.

Case 5 would make much more sense if you did that because then Maki might tamper with the crime scene and attempt to take down Kokichi and she can do it without having to kill everyone else, and then when she sees how all that pretty much pins it on kaito since he's the true culprit, she has to double back and change what she does midtrial. It'd also help the truth and lies theme work better because this way the characters actually have good scenarios to lie in.

It's something I'm saving more for Kokichi's discussion, but the rules of the killing game really hold a lot of V3's cases back, and they aren't bad ideas, but not fitting ones for the killing game rules.

If I were to use Ace Attorney as an example, you could never do a case like Farewell My turnabout (2-4) in a world like Danganronpa's with their current rules. V3 really branched out with some writing scenarios, but they didn't change the rules to better compliment the cases.

Since the murder games are recurring, what should happen is that voting correctly/incorrectly should translate to a significant advantage/disadvantage in the next round. So sure you can all vote for the guy you don't like to kill him but this puts you in a weaker spot next round, and if the guy is a threat to humanity like Nagito maybe more than half of the people are willing to take a significant penalty just to see him dead. To make the lying part relevant, I'd say add in an element where if you can convince other people to vote wrong (you still have to vote correctly) then you get a huge advantage the next round. There should always be a way to win without everyone else dead. That method can be difficult to achieve but it has to exist, because otherwise you'll still play the game as if it's under 'everyone else dies' rule if that's the only criteria for winning the game eventually.

Thank you for not including Maki's snot sprite, that one's way too good that it needs to be placed in a museum.

I will say I don't necessarily mind that the game "forces" her on you since every game has main characters, though I still don't think DR does as good a job of making the entire cast feel special as opposed to say, 999

Obviously, it's easier to handle 9 characters than 16. And also different types of game and all of that.

Doesn't mean DR can't do a better job

Yeah, but I think V3 did a pretty good job on that front.

Unlike DR1 (Kyoko and Makoto show) or DR2 (Hajime, Chiaki and Nagito show). I think V3 managed to make a lot of characters important to the plot beyond Maki, Kokichi, Shuichi and Kaito. An example of that was Miu, who was extremely important in a posthumous way, same for Kaede and Rantar and then there was also Keebo and Tsumugi who raised in importance in the last chapter.

Eh I felt that DR2 actually struck a better balance of character memorability through the story as V3 seemed to only bother to really focus on a character when their death was coming up

But for posthumous importance, Id easily give it to V3

I think they just struck you on a more personal level since that, at least for me, the DR2 cast was the cast that had the greater quantity of "useless" characters and among those, a lot of characters that were considerably less developed in comparision to others in the series.

It helps DR1 that a lot of the survivor cast there had their roles expanded in other spin offs. For DR2, the only member of the survivor cast that actually felt important was Hajime, Fuyuhiko developed but he wasn't that relevant beyond case 2.

You missed this: http://danganronpa.wikia.com/wiki/File:Danganronpa_V3_Bonus_Mode_Maki_Harukawa_Sprite_(15).png
I'm usually only put off by the crying sprites (come on, at least make the tears blue, it's gross) but the way her lip is upturned is weird, and it ticks me off the more I think about it!

While Maki is far from a perfect character, I really enjoy her character. Yes, her arc is extremely overdone and cliche but that's not necessarily a bad thing. I find her simplistic and easy to understand character quite refreshing for someone who usually enjoys a lot of complex characters myself.

Her relationship with Kaito is really cute, and I'm going to get a lot of flak for this, but I find it very well written, or at least finely written with other appeals to it. They play off each other well with the bitchy deadpan girl with no self-worth and the supportive outgoing guy who's incredibly full of himself half of the time. And there's actual development from it, and while Kaito more so develops from his relationships with Saihara and Kokichi, Maki's development does benefit a lot from her relationship with Kaito.

The first defense I'd like to make of this relationship is that people dismiss it as a forced romance. I'm going to have to say that's not true at all. "Maki falling in love was unnecessary!" No. Maki falling in love with Kaito was actually needed for her character arc to impact as much as it did. What Kaito wanted from Maki was for her to overcome her self-loathing since she had such little value in her life due to her self-hatred. Kaito was trying to bring her to appreciate herself and realize that she's still human, which is why Kaito is so glad when Maki reveals she's fallen in love with him. Because she's capable of love, this means she can grow to love herself, which is what Kaito responds to her with. Also, people call it a romance when it's really not. There's no implication Kaito returned her feelings romantically, and that makes sense since Kaito is dying from his disease so he doesn't have time to try and fall in love. While he could have returned her feelings, it's a lot more likely he just viewed her as a sister.

The other complaint I hear is that her relationship with Kaito took over her character. This is also not true and I honestly blame it on people not paying attention to Maki's dialogue. Even in Chapter 5, she never tried to protect Kaito until the end. When she attacked Kokichi in the hangar, it was to end the killing game with saving Kaito being a benefit she'd receive while in the trial, she didn't care since she believed Kaito was dead, and she was set on her goal on defeating Kokichi and ending the killing game. Her thinking that she got Kaito killed simply fueled her determination. Even then, Maki's character arc and development is for her to overcome her self-loathing and learn to appreciate herself. Kaito was just the person to bring her to that conclusion.

I know Maki has her other problems, but I wanted to address things about Kaito's relationship with her that people call bad writing. Overall, I really like Maki despite her being overdone. And honestly, I never saw her as a creator's pet being pushed into being likeable. All the moments that make it seem that way feel more so like pacing issues rather than pandering to her character.

I'm one of the people who doesn't like her relationship with Kaito that much, and I'm not against the idea, it's more the fact that I think it kind of oversimplifies their characters a bit and DR has had a pattern of pushing for the romantic angle more and more simply to make a bigger tragedy when one of them inevitably dies in the fifth chapter.

The fact that her only real job is to say "I love you Kaito" solely to contrast her with the beginning of the game is what I don't care for it. Compare it to say, Kyoko, who people definitely ship with Makoto, but the focus of case 5 was more what you learn about through seeing Makoto and Kyoko together and what you learn about both of them that you don't see with them as individuals.

Chiaki also kinda felt like she existed solely to die for Hajime to be sad, and it really felt like Maki kind of had the job of being someone to react to Kaito's death, though I feel Kaito's is actually handled better because the cast actually had a reason to care about him dying. Half the cast in DR 2 had maybe one or two actual conversations with Chiaki, so while I understand they'd be upset, it just felt a little overdone.

I think that's more so an issue of predictability there. I feel like Maki needed someone like Kaito for her arc to work, and Kaito dying was part of his own arc altogether, so they decided to kill two birds with one stone linking the two things together. Or at least, that's my take on it.

And I honestly feel like scenes like Chapter 3's trial and part of Chapter 4 in SDR2 were supposed to convey Chiaki's relationship with the group, although they were too minimal to actually take in so I agree that it wasn't exactly well-conveyed with her.

True, but her story is pretty cliche to begin with, so going with the most predictable outcome paired with an already continuing trend of just not doing much with characters until the chapter they're relevant in and killing them off solely for the tragic factor I don't think makes for solid writing. I wouldn't mind if they had more going for it, but Maki is pretty one note and the whole element of the tragedy of Kaito's death really engulfs a lot of hers.

It's a huge issue I have with Kaede as well even if I like her personality and what she brings to the table, but a lot of DR isn't actually focusing on the characters and more just using them as cheap springboards for a quick reaction or using them as angst material for other characters.

Honestly, I think it's fine with some characters as long as they are well characterized, like Kaede, but I can see what you mean that it's hard to tolerate with Maki because there isn't much to her outside of her arc.

That's just it. I don't think the vast majority of DR characters are well characterized. They're mostly just one note and the series mistakes killing someone off for development, and any time a character starts to really unfold, they die. I doubt I'm gonna win many points here, but it's sorta my take on it. I still like the series and a lot of what it does, but I also don't expect much out of its writing. It's still fun to discuss these, and I do get the appeal around Maki.

That said, I think it gets ridiculous to the point where you have people willing to risk death for someone they had maybe one or two conversations with.

Honestly, I think it's a matter of being rushed. All the games suffer from serious pacing issues, aside from the first game, funny enough, commonly called the worst one.

story-wise, i think the first game is by far, BY FAR, the best plotted, paced and written. i don't think it's even a contest. maybe because it doesn't suffer from having to elaborate upon the previous games.

I disagree with the best written for the sole reason of the third case, but I respect.

the third case of any given game is where good writing goes to die. twice.

continue this thread

i bought the mass angst for chiaki just because it seemed like, as a whole, the dr2 cast operated as a more of a collective than the v3 kids, who tended to splinter off into cliques in which they operated fairly exclusively. dr2 definitely had its pairings and trios and so on, but you'd also get scenarios like all of the girls getting together for a beach party in chapter two or the group splitting in a fairly random configuration during the quarantine in chapter three, so it scanned to me that chiaki would have made enough individual connections to be beloved (she was also incredibly pragmatic and useful during the class trials which probably won her some fans amongst the group).

in v3, by contrast -- shuichi really only ever hung out with kaito and maki, tenko/himiko/angie largely hung out with each other, miu and k1-b0 were each other's only solid relationship, etc. that kaito would be well-liked isn't a surprise because dudes like kaito float to the top of social hierarchies just by nature, but generally speaking i feel like the v3 cast were most concerned with their one or two close relationships with the general welfare of the group coming second.

thanks for this, Maki has a lot of problems but her relationship with Kaito isn't one of them!

actually i think her relationship with Kaito is pretty heartwarming, and my favorite part of her character

load more comments (9 replies)

Well now that we've reached this part of the discussion, I think I can finally express exactly what my biggest gripe with Maki is.

True, she's a pretentious edgy tsundere whose personality and talent are so amateurishly written, she's less worthy of being a main character than Gonta, but at least it's funny to see just how much of a tryhard she can get. No, the biggest reason why I don't like Maki and find her to be an objectively bad character; is her backstory.

Now yeah, you could say that it's just forced exposition to make her sympathizable, and I don't disagree with that, but it goes way beyond that. According to the backstory, Maki said that she became as sadistic as she is because some gangsters hired her to become an assassin and so long as she works for them, they'll fund her orphanage. This backstory doesn't make Maki seem tragic, it makes her seem like a selfish lying bitch. Here's why:

Throughout the game, Maki said she "never had a choice" when she became the sadistic assassin that she is. But this is a bold faced lie. At no point was she forced to become an assassin. The gangsters never threatened her to become one, nor do they have a reason to. She's a kid to begin with, hiring a kid to become a professional assassin is a risky liberty that can't just work for a profession that relies on efficiency. So she DOES have a choice. She MADE the choice to become an assassin, even though worst case scenario, all that would happen otherwise would be that her orphanage won't get funded, which even then, there are a myriad of other jobs she could've applied to. Before you say "But that's child labor!", DR is a prodigy paradise, juvenility is not a boundary.

No one forced her to become the way she is nor do they have a reason to. She made the choice to kill people and torment herself, and by the end of it she just takes it out on people like Kaede for killing with a similar reason. But much unlike Maki, what Kaede did really does hinge on risks between life and death, so Maki had no rights to talk sharp on Kaede.

Hell, even if the backstory is fake, it's still the main driving point of her personality and her reason to act that way, so when even her backstory falls apart, none of her actions prior to her development are the least bit justified. Sharp-scolding Kaede, disregarding Ryoma's motive video, and treating other people like idiots when she made worse mistakes herself, such as trying to kill all her friends just to kill Kokichi and getting away with it without any consequences. It makes her an overall really insufferable and unpleasant person and I can never feel sympathy for anything she does.

She's only lucky that Kaito's willing to put up with her, because she did not deserve him. I can't even feel sad at Kaito's farewell because I can't help but to snicker at Maki when she cries all over him.

Not gonna lie, she's better off swapping places with Kirumi as the Chapter 2 killer. If only Kodaka can actually grow some balls and twist the expy arc for once, we wouldn't have gotten the Kyoko version of Akane, except even Akane is more compelling.

load more comments (7 replies)

After a lot of thought, I'd say that Maki is my least favorite of the V3 students. Its not that I hate her, but rather that she just kinda bores me. Which is sorta amazing considering her talent, backstory, and design.

her and kaito are both forced on you, heavily... I think the difference is kaito chooses to side with you, a detective, and he enourages you and befriends you and tries making you a better person.

when you choose to believe in maki, its for literally no reason at all. she never does anything throughout the entire game that makes her a trustworthy character, its just that kaito likes her. you can see through their relationship that theres a real person inside the assassin mask, but the way they go about it is stupid.

she even tries getting everyone killed at the end because of their false memories about kokichi. little did she know, kokichi was actually just trying to end the killing game, so she was going to kill everyone for no reason. kinda stomps on everything she had built with everyone until then, making all her character development even worse

Maki is... fine. I can't tell if she's more widely disliked or liked but either way, overall, I like her.

I do understand the issues with her though. My biggest gripe being that her role in the story, since she ends up becoming a central character, invalidates her FTEs since they don't really add much about her. Then the pacing of her development is messed up several times as it's either reinforcing what we already know or even going a few steps back. Her 'edginess' is often brought into question but it didn't bug me too much aside from her generally misplaced and unfunny catchphrase. That said, if people didn't like her before much, then being forced to hang out with her probably only grates on them more.

As for me, I suppose I liked how Shuichi was an independent character who chose to have his own little circle of friends. It made him distinct and so, even if at times I wasn't the most fond of either Kaito or Maki, I thought their overall interactions were serviceable. A good thing about Maki is that she often talked reasonably and was decently helpful during trials, thanks to her being an assassin, so seeing her act completely out of it in Chapter 5 was a great portrayal of how her emotions had started ruling her. In fact, it ties in well with how she kept her distance in the beginning, considering herself unworthy of having friends. And then, when she does experience emotions of such grave intensity after so long, she is unable to handle them and loses her rationale.

I don't think it's fair to say she's bad simply because her arc has been seen in fiction several times. Several such arcs and tropes repeat themselves endlessly and it is dependent on execution and handling, more than the core repetitiveness of it. And Maki, for me, was quite satisfactory.

(Excuse my poor, not native English and me being emotional about this one. It's been a while since I've hated a fictional character this much)

I've said it before and I'll probably say it again – I consider Harukawa Maki to be the worst character in Danganronpa V3 and possibly the worst character Kodaka has ever created for the series.

And It's not only about how forgiving the narrative is to Maki or how she is clearly forced as a "friend" (despite Saihara didn't have a single reason to befriend her) or "an important character in the game" (despite her role in the story being pretty minor up until chapter 5). She is just a poorly written Mary Sue with a shallow character and probably the lamest character development arc possible.

Wait, wait, I know, no one likes people who call the character they dislike "a Mary Sue". But let's just stop here, and think about it – what defines a Mary Sue and what are the special traits of a Mary Sue? You may say that a Mary Sue is a character that is a self-insert. She (well, usually it's a "she") is beautiful, powerful, smart, talented and everybody loves her and act like they are blessed by her existence. She can break the rules of the canon. When she is around, the story itself is obsessed with her. She can be rude to people, and her friends will still like her. She doesn't make mistakes, or, even if she does, everyone forgives her (and she is the only one who doesn't forgive herself, just to give herself yet another reason to feel miserable and to give an audience a chance to feel sorry for her feeling miserable). Maki is definitely not a self-insert (at least I hope she isn't). But the rest of it pretty much matches.

Even the first time you (as Akamatsu) meet her in the game, the story nearly screams at us: "She is important! Look at how mysterious she is! There is definitely something particularly interesting about this one, notice her!" It is probably just me and my personal feelings about the games and the characters, but even Kyoko didn't give me the same: "Look, I'm important!" – feeling, until the first murder occurred (not to mention Chiaki, who only began to shine during the first trial). So to me Maki kind of felt forced by the narrative even before she was actually forced by the narrative, if it even makes sense. Although it might have just been me.

During trial two Maki basically breaks the logic of the canon: Saihara chooses to trust her and covers for her, just… Because Kaito told him to? Wait a minute, I thought they were like… In a killing game or something? And wasn't Saihara supposed to be like… a detective? I mean, a person, whose job is to find a truth, to doubt people and to find a proof of them being guilty or not guilty. Danganronpa has always been about logic and evidence, not about faith. But obviously the narrative wants us to forget about it. "Trusting a friend is important" – you may say, but the thing is – they were not even friends yet. Saihara barely knew Maki and, well, barely knew Kaito. For me that was the moment when the logic of the story turned into ashes, just because "Maki was important for the narrative".

Maki's development later on is just stereotypical. I was hoping (but didn't believe) that Kodaka wouldn't do something as lame as creating a sad backstory for Maki (to make us feel sorry for her and make her feel not right about herself, because we obviously need another reason to feel sorry for her), and making her fall in love with Kaito and change because of it. This was literally what Kodaka did.

Chapter 5, when Maki truly becomes important, is a disaster. Maki tried to kill everyone, you say? Oh, that's nothing. Maki did nothing wrong. If it's done for love it isn't wrong. It's Ouma's fault. If it isn't – it's the mastermind's fault, because they made everyone participate in a killing game. She said she would change. Her actions basically killed a person? Well, words are more important than actions. Let's just believe her, believe in her, like Saihara did in chapter two.

What really bothered me about Maki, since chapter two and up until the end of the game – I felt that the game really wanted me to love her… And didn't give me a proper reason to love her. Was I supposed to love her because of her sad-sad backstory? Might have worked, but her backstory and the way the player finds out about it felt a bit forced down the player's throat. Or maybe because she was designed to be a good-looking girl. Well, almost every girl in V3 was good-looking, Maki's design wasn't even that interesting or original, compared to the majority of the girls. And I like boys better anyway. Why was I supposed to love her? Why was the player supposed to love her? I still don't get it.

Not only do I agree with this, Maki in fact does come pretty close to the original definition of Mary Sue before it was applied to any female character one doesn't like. Where this gets worse is that even when she legitimately questions if she has a right to say this and that (Like when she says maybe she has no right to judge Kokichi considering her job) the narrative goes out of the way to say she's totally better than him and Shuichi nods along (And of course this is bad since Kodaka mentioned he intended for the player to 'stand' alongside Shuichi in the final trial), so you feel like rather than setting Maki up so you see her as a flawed character who has a lot to work on, it's more like it's brought up to guilt trip you into feeling bad if you dare judge her since hardly anyone around her by the time chapter 5's rolled around objects to her except for Kokichi.

It doesn't exactly help either that using painful torture poison to kill someone who might have pulled the whole 'turning off the air filters' thing like Junko did in DR1 or even going after Kokichi when the entire affair was pointless was the dumbest thing ever, and that the cast basically had nothing to say just seals the can on 'Stupid things that happened because I needed it to happen', and I've a big issue in how Maki is written anyway because there's being overly emotional while seeming cold and unintentionally looking suspicious or irrationally defending yourself, but I really want to know what the fuck was she thinking defending her talent room to the point it practically screamed 'I'M SUSPICIOUS', especially when the mastermind knew her secret so hiding it was 100% useless from the get-go and you really expect Maki to have more of a brain considering her job requires planning ahead.

There's also the matter of her screentime- Sure, characters like Nagito get it a lot too but in fiction thematically important characters are always going to be more prominent and honestly I've got to say I've no clue exactly what was the point regarding Maki.

Yeah, your hate made you say some dumb stuff.

despite Saihara didn't have a single reason to befriend her

They have a pretty good scene training while Kaito's sick that highlights how they are similar people, who both chose to use Kaito's encouragement to better themselves. Check that up again.

And wasn't Saihara supposed to be like… a detective? I mean, a person, whose job is to find a truth, to doubt people and to find a proof of them being guilty or not guilty.

An apprentice who never liked that part of his job.

Maki is definitely not a self-insert (at least I hope she isn't). But the rest of it pretty much matches. She's a Mary Sue.

I wouldn't call her a Mary Sue. She makes mistakes often and is punished by the plot for it even if the characters forgive her, not everyone loves or likes her.

Going by what you've said (not that I agree with it) Kaede, Kyoko and Chiaki would all be fit for the Mary Sue stigma much more than Maki is.

Danganronpa has always been about logic and evidence, not about faith.

Chapter 1-5. You, as Makoto, has to chose between chosing logic and pursuing Kyoko's lie or chosing faith and trusting her despite the fact that she tried to put the blame of Mukuro's death on Makoto early on. Guess the right answer.

Trusting a friend is important" – you may say, but the thing is – they were not even friends yet.

Kaito was his friend.

Saihara barely knew Maki and, well, barely knew Kaito.

He barely knew Kaede as well and yet he trusted her with the library' secret door and his plan. That's just how his character is in the early part of the game.

"Maki did nothing wrong"

The plot pretty much punished her for her reckless behavior though.

If it isn't – it's the mastermind's fault, because they made everyone participate in a killing game. She said she would change. Her actions basically killed a person?

Technically, she only went after Ouma because of what she saw on the FB light (mastermind's manipulation). Not even Ouma blamed her directly, he only remarked how he was careless and was outplayed by the actual mastermind.

I think she get's given too much flack sometimes. She's definitely got her cliches, but I don't think any character in V3 is immune to adhering to a few of these tropes here and there.

A lot of people feel that the group doesn't react realistically to her; that they become friends with her almost immediately after learning what her real story is without it making that much sense. I'd argue this only really applies to Shuichi and Kaito. Everyone else gives her a pretty wide berth until the get to know her more, the exception being the class trials where they have no choice but to co-operate with her. Shuichi is kind of dragged into spending time with her by Kaito, and he's doing it because Kaito kept looking out for who needed help in the group the most. It's what he did for Shuichi after chapter 1, it's what he did for Himiko in chapter 3's trial, and it what he does for Maki after learning who she is.

A killing game is a horrible situation for anyone to be in, but at least you're surrounded by people that going through the same trauma. But whilst everyone else is relying on each other, Maki keeps her distance. Yeah, it's a problem of her own making, but so is being introverted. It doesn't mean you don't deserve help.

And to address the elephant in the room, her actions in chapter 5 and the way that nobody really holds it against her, well apart from it being pretty similar to what Kyoko did in DR1, which very few people give her flack over, the realisation of what she was trying to do happened mid-trial, the group has bigger priorities right now then getting mad over what she did. As as soon as her plan is revealed, she loses the will to keep going with it and starts helping the group earnestly.

Since I don't care about her all that much, I'll forgo talking about Maki's character arc as a whole all that much and say I just think it's totally fine. A socially maladjusted girl, forced to live an abnormal and inhumane life, who has trouble accepting herself as a decent person or even a human being at all is able to find love in herself through the belief of others. I can also buy how Kaito is the one person who's able to help her, given we see several times how gifted he is at reading people and getting to the root of their problems. In fact, it really couldn't be anyone but Kaito. It's fine, albeit a bit generic, and I do like how she isn't completely socially adjusted after is all said and done. Like, even after Kaito's sacrifice she can still be rash and prone to violence as a solution to any given problem. It has a few issues, but I think the overall product is acceptable.

That said, I specifically want to talk about her actions in Chapter 5. Contrary to what others might say, I can totally buy she would attempt something like this, mostly out of rage-filled vindictiveness towards Kokichi. It's a completely in-character move for her to make. She can be very impulsive, hot-headed, and capable of holding grudges in spite of her seemingly collected attitude, and I don't expect the others to be so easily willing to call her out on it, given that no one in that group is a Byakuya or a Toko, two people that have no problem being harsh or critical of others. Tsumugi is passive, Keebo and Shuichi aren't very confrontational, and Himiko would probably be too afraid to directly call her out on it. The problem I have is that Maki offers nothing in the way of an apology. Heck, it doesn't even need to be a strict "I'm sorry", just an "I screwed up" would be acceptable, some admission that she did indeed make the wrong choice and allowed her emotions to get the better of her, because it doesn't really seem like she feels any semblance of guilt for it. I can understand the others forgiving her given the circumstances, but I would very, very much prefer there to be some kind of incentive for them to do so, because otherwise it's just kind of hard for me to buy her getting accepted back into the group so quickly.

That being said, while I don't care for her much, the sheer amount of disdain and vitriol she gets can get hilariously overblown at times.

My interpretation of what Kodaka and the developers tried with her:

She was pushed as the main girl (excluding Kaede for obvious reasons) throughout the story. She was given preferential treatment and focus that didn't really go that far. I think they wanted us to like her in the same vein as Chiaki and Kyoko but failed.

Chiaki also suffered from overexposure a bit and favoritism but her story line actually goes somewhere and is entirely relevant to the plot.

The thing is: The issue with Maki is that her story or any sort of stuff involving her, doesn't really add up in the story. Kyoko's father was the headmaster of HPA, which is the place where the killing game takes place while Chiaki is one of the AIs with the purpose of watching and guide the students in NWP, working for the FF. Both Kyoko and Chiaki had important roles in the story but what Maki had? A assassin with a sad past with no connection with the plot. Her story could be easily handled through FTEs but instead, they did in the main story, which wouldn't really change anything cuz like I said before, story-wise, she doesn't seem important or different from any character. So, I see it like the writers just tried to force people to sympathize and like her.

So, I see it like the writers just tried to force people to sympathize and like her.

Yep, as I said, I really think they wanted her to be the new Chiaki and Kyoko but her story does not go anywhere plot related.

her story does not go anywhere plot related.

I mean, technically that's sort of the point? None of the backstories of the cast have to do with what is actually happening because fiction.

Also I think the assumption that they wanted her to be the new Chiaki or the new Kyoko is wrong, otherwise, it would be more ideal to make her fall or at least develop a closer connection with Shuichi rather than Kaito.

As a inconsequential note before my unorganised ramblings: An early theory I had for the first third of the game was that Maki was the actual Ultimate Pianist (especially as Kaede had a personality more suited for a Caregiver and Maki appeared to have a hairpin that looked a little like a musical note) and that a plot twist was going to be that everyone had the wrong Ultimate abilities assigned back to them. Maki still loved music so was jealous of Kaede at the start, hence the frostiness. Turns out she was just a Caregiver, but it sure sparked me looking at everybody and being like "Ok, I think Kaito is actually the folk lore guy because of his tall stories and so that must mean..." trails of thought until that theory collapsed.

I actually liked Maki, though now I think about it I guess if I was to rank the characters she would land somewhere in the middle, especially if we're just ranking the girls. Three girls finish firmly below her, three finish firmly above her, and one is kind of tied for her in the middle. Maki seems to be a "safe" character. She's got enough about her to like, her ability automatically puts her into a position where she can be a badass if required, she gets a couple of fun lines and memorable moments, and you see her grow as time goes on, but because she's so serious she doesn't quite stand out compared to some of the more larger than life characters.

Shower thought: She had a sad backstory so she may be the one person who benefits the most from the twist ending, because there isn't as much blood on her hands as she first thought.

I guess I just don't quite understand why some people hate her other than "overexposure compared to other characters" I suppose. Arguably OP in combat ability, but I found her character to be endearing. I guess one thing I liked was that while she would be kind of expected to be the Kirigiri/Chiaki of the game, because she was paired up with Kaito and Shuichi was bound to Kaede, it kind of removed any romantic tension between the pair which allowed them to simply just be portrayed as friends who play off each other and watch each others backs. Ironically, this thing I like gets blamed for her placing low in the Japanese popularity polls, so if there's a DR4 I fully expect we'll be back to the sidekick being the love interest.

Whilst the Monokubs are my least favourite Maki comes in at a pretty close second. My main problems with Maki is how cliche she felt, being overly edgy and never gets called out on the things she does. I also just didn't find her interesting in the slightest and having the most cliche backstory for an assassin imaginable doesn't help.

Oh and she's also overly edgy and do you wan to die is the stupidest catchphrase I've ever heard.

I'm incredibly neutral on Maki. I wish she was one of the people who died as opposed to, say, Kokichi or Kaito, because then the sixth trial wouldn't be carried on the backs of Mastermind Tsumugi, Keebo, and the reveal.

I think most people are going to talk about Maki's value as a character in a writing perspective which isn't something I'm particularly interested in talking about (there were major, major flaws within her arc and development, which is true for a lot of Danganronpa characters, though it's more notable with Maki due to how much the game focuses on her). Instead, I want to talk about an aspect of Maki as a character and how it relates to the larger narrative and themes of V3 and that is: how straightforward she is.

For a game about lying, that's full of liars, where the characters and even the narrative lies to you, Maki is never not what she seems to be. Which isn't to say that she's never lying to you, she lies about her Talent for the first two chapters, to the point where Kokichi has to expose her, but her personality, her feelings, her archetype as a character all always laid bare. We know she's a tragic orphan who can't process her own feelings from the very first time we meet her; it's never hard to understand Maki as the audience, and it's never hard for the characters inside the story to understand her either, while almost every character is lying about something fundamental about them, from their feelings to their weaknesses to their roles in the story to what they've done and what they plan to do. It's very clear when Maki starts developing feelings for Kaito, it's very clear when she starts warming to Shuichi, it's very clear when she plans a murder. The moment Maki's lie is exposed, in a far more public and notable way than anyone else's, she stops being a character that lies, the same way Himiko stops being a character that lies after Chapter 3.

There's a bit of color symbolism that I think is interesting, and is an interpretation I agree with, that pink symbolizes lies (as applied to Kaede and Kaito, two of the biggest liars in the game) and red symbolizes the truth, which are given to the non-Shuichi survivors. There aren't any surprises with Maki, which I think is part of why she's such a frustrating character in the game, and also why I think characters like Shuichi and Kaito are able to trust her, because her emotions, her intentions, her plans are all intensely clear.

Nice points. I know you said you didn't want to talk about that but could you briefly point out what were the flaws in the writing standpoint for her character that you saw?

I think Maki is a well-written character, in that I think she has a distinct personality, backstory, motivations, and development, which is all I can really ask for in a character, and I think that she works in a narrative sense, if I'm right about what the narrative is trying to do with her, as outlined above, but I think the audience has mixed feelings about her for a good reason and that's narrative sympathy.

I disagree strongly when people talk about how Maki was focused on more than other characters, because I don't think that's a problem and it's a basic necessity that a story is going to have to focus on some characters more than others, especially in a series like Danganronpa where some of the characters have to die early on. Where I do think Maki failed, and where I think most of the audience pushback comes from, is how much the game asked us to sympathize with and agree with her decisions. People tend to get annoyed with Maki in chapter 5, which is where she makes her most controversial decision and the narrative refuses to call her out on it. Audiences react really negatively when asked to sympathize with a character when they don't think they've been given an adequate reason to agree with. It's really important to balance the level of expecting the audience to overlook their characters actions and remain on their side (DR1 pulls this off really well with Hina. She does basically the same thing Maki does in Chapter 5, but DR1 really makes you want to forgive Hina and be on her side, while V3 fails to do that with Maki.)

Basically, she has the exact opposite problem as a character from Angie.

I see. I agree with most of the things you've said here. I chose to interpret Maki's guilt of the situation as why she chose to sacrifice herself for Himiko and Shuichi's sake but it'd be nice if she verbally owned up for what she tried to do.

​Might not come as a surprise for those who can see my posts for a while here, but I really didn't give two shits about Harukawa, whether it was pre-release, during the game and completing it, I still don't care at all about her.

...Okay that was a mere exaggeration. I do like how she always gave Saihara shit in the beginning of the game (until Chapter 4 came up) and some of her lines were really great at many points in the game (there is also the fact that she doesn't want any FTEs with you at least in Chapter 2 cuz she doesn't give a fuck that you're the protagonist, so it's very refreshing when you have the rest of the people coddling Saihara for almost no reason, at least in this chapter). I do like also when she takes control of the group after Momota's kidnapping and presses the rest to move forward, and her actions in Chapter 5 made sense for her character at least. It also managed to make the mystery a bit more interesting than what it would've been with only the binary choice and extremely shallow one of "Is it Momota or Ouma in the Exisal" and considering that V3-5 is mostly 2-5 with another couch of paint then it becomes quite obvious how it goes, so her actions are at least making the whole thing a bit more exciting. A sentiment I come across quite often in fandoms (so speaking in a more general sense) is that when a character evolving and developping and ends up having an "arc", people are quick to rule them out as well-written or accomplished or good once they fullfill this "condition". Now, having a character getting development is definitely great, but it shouldn't just be that factor and then just pass under the rug everything else that there can be to it, so it feels too much overvalued nowadays and sometimes even used as buzzword for "good character" when it doesn't quite mean the same thing. Now, Harukawa develops ? Hell yes she does and it's nice, definitely. ...But it's when her character seems to be given too much of a pass by the game itself is where it starts to nosedive.

We don't have much of Harukawa in the first chapter, besides her being the "completely-done-with-your-shit" type (a type I really like though) and can be kinda quick to call on points at time, which I find nice. Her being one of the people who quickly judge Akamatsu on her actions and not really forgiving her, despite her motives is definitely a nice touch. There is the infamous chapter 2 moment with Kaito "I BELIEVE SHE DIDNT DUNNIT AND I WILL BELIEVE HER DESPITE TALKING TO HER TWICE BECAUSE THE PLOT WILL MAKE ME RIGHT" Momota and with Saihara being an irresponsible hypocrite by lying to prove that point instead of... just extend the truth (and with just that it also fucks Tojo since Momota chose to not believe so of course Saihara won't believe either), but that's a point that was already much discussed here. Then Chapter 3 comes along with marking the beginning of Harukawa's development as she tries to regain her humanity due to her past history as a cold-blood assassin, and while the assassin backstory is boring and overdone, it's still fine for what it is — even with the "Girl with Twintails Is Revealed to have Killed Before" in every Chapter 2 cuz Danganronpa — if the development for the character is gonna have its way.

Momota invites her to the training sessions, boosts her with it and his words like he did with Saihara, the three of them really do stuff together and such.. but was it really that incredible to watch and put me through ? She's relevant on the very first poster and even with or without Akamatsu being revealed as MC that poster still screams MAIN GIRL even with the bits of design taken from Kirigiri (for the record I do think in the beginning they are alike but they both evolve in different directions, making them both very different characters as a result), there is the fact that she's revealed to have killed before during the game and have an explicit killer talent so I don't have to worry about if she dies or not because she absolutely won't, so that begs the question of why should I care.

Not everyone experienced that issue I feel but there is something about the FTE and how her backstory is announced that is really bugging me. You can start her FTE as Saihara in.. Chapter 3 IIRC. Hers are pretty simple : even if devoid of comedy moments, they provide a nice backstory for Harukawa regarding her past as an assassin, what she had to go through, it's nicely detailed which is good ! ... but kinda a waste of time if they just go and tell her backstory literally in an unskippable main story event where she tells kinda everything you need to know about her (minus some details but due to how incredibly not original it is, I doubt that people really care. Especially with a certain twist coming later...). It's basically a waste of time to just have this part of story paced up like that when : 1/ it was already told at least ONCE, 2/ we could've used spots like that for other characters that drastically needed intention in the plot. Oh well, Kodaka's used to pick favorites in his plots now anyway, how surprising. (Not that Harukawa is the only offender as there is way worse than her, mind you, but that's another big essay). That said, the good thing about this mistake in pacing is how hilarious it would've been if the FTEs were actually canon (the backstories and characters' stories in general ARE, not the fact that you spend time with character in question), because by doing Harukawa's FTE before that chapter 4 moment, there could be a fun moment like :

Harukawa (in FTE) : I was taken as an assassin and raised as one from my orphenage.

Saihara : is surprised

__

Harukawa (in Chp 4): I was taken as an assassin and raised as one from my orphenage.

Momota : is surprised

Saihara : GASP

Well, in short, the fact that you end up seeing her a lot wouldn't be that much of an issue and I wouldn't really call that "being forced on you" (tho again more equal time with everyone would've been better), but the "forced on you" is the point of "no matter what this character does the plot will just ignore it" which I already mentionned, and now you actually get to the oh-so-known recycled part of what Asahina did in chapter 4, this time done with Harukawa, in a Chapter 5, and badly done, which is outrageous when you repeat almost the exact same plotline, seven years later, and you do it all the wrong way.

In Chapter 4 Monokuma manipulates Asahina with the letter he replaced with the real one Oogami wrote. That sets her mind that everyone (including her) needs to die. When her plan is exposed and it fails, Togami (still shocked of the resolution that he didn't manage to find - and "beaten" by Naegi kinda) directly confronts her as Asahina reveals all the details. After Monokuma made his fun troll, she discovers how she has been toyed with and filled with regret and guilt, apologizes repeatedly, in tears, as afterwards the group accepts her excuses as they all acknowledge the terrible thing she did but still move forward.

None of that happens in V3 : Shirogane still manipulates everyone (including Harukawa) with the flashback light, so that she ends up trying to kill Ouma as she believes him to be a member of Despair (at the time). It's revealed that she tried to kill everyone only so that she can get it back at Ouma.... and no gives a fuck afterwards, cuz it's okay to overlook things like that, right ? "They didn't have time to mention that to her" is a bullshit excuse. We had lots of lines in the post-trial used for Momota to suck Saihara's dick for no reason three times and we can't have a single moment of, say, Shirogane, Yumeno, hell, someone, just saying to her "hey that was kinda irresponsible of you to just decide to do that with our lifes" and Harukawa apologizing for that, combined with how she was manipulated with the Light ? Other people stated how cringe it also was that they just joke about it with the catchphrase in a OH-SO-FUNNY way (she even stated in previous chapters she used that habit to "joke around").

When you have a character doing a kinda uncool/morally not that good thing, it's still okay, but they must be handled correctly into the narrative and just not have the rest of the cast and story overlook whatever they do. Iruma and Akamatsu were better handled in this : with Iruma, the other characters that aren't named Ki-Bo still feel a little sorry for her death but are all trashing her due to her behavior with them (regardless of how useful she was to them or not), but all of that vanished into thin air (again, for everyone not named Ki-Bo) when they learnt of her trying to murder someone. For Akamatsu, you have everyone not denying her very noble intentions, but they still point out that she had to start Monokuma's game for that to happen. Hell, even Ki-Bo, after he states to have no problems with destroying the school, apologizes repeatedly for what he did before the final trial starts, and it's still understandable why he acts this way when he was in a different transe because of his ahoge missing. Not even everyone just accepts this also : Shirogane is pissed off, for example (that's understandable when he kinda destroys the entire stage where she put her lazy fanfic), and those characters are still taken the time to have their actions put into some consideration. Others like Harukawa don't get that, regardless of what she did or not. At least that angle I feel was waaay better in Chapter 6 when she decides to be a sacrifice if it meant her killing the mastermind and letting the two other live.

To sum it up, even if it's due to preference at times, I still wouldn't like Harukawa but still consider her a strong character if she was one, and it doesn't only take "development" for that to happen, and it doesn't make me overlook all those weird things that happens.

Aaand now I just realized what I said here basically parallels what everyone already said. Oh well.

oh, i know what you mean, i will post my comments the last day so i can say something different from everyone

btw who is the "fan favorite" you will write about?

You will know soon enough =b

Hint : I diss him often in the write-ups that will come before his, which include the one in this post.

load more comments (3 replies)

People give Hiro, Akane, and Himiko flak for contributing nothing to the trials, but ignore Maki even though she is just as bad, if not worse. I'm genuinely not sure if Maki makes a single useful contribution to the trials at all.

She withholds important information in chapter 2.
Her only contribution in chapter 3 is talking about Tenko committing suicide (which she quickly drops).
She was there in chapter 4, that's about it.
She's responsible for more than half of the bs in chapter 5.
Himiko may have wasted time in V3-2 with the whole "It's magic" speal, and Hiro pulls the ghost nonsense in 1-5. But none of those even compare to how much time is wasted in V3-5 due to Maki. Hiro's dumb moment lasted at most 3 minutes, Himiko's maybe 15-20, but Maki's lasts the entire first 90 minutes of the trial. She wastes more time in the trials than Hiro, Himiko, and Akane combined. Even characters who intentionally mess with the trials like Byakuya and Kokichi can't even mess with them on purpose better than Maki can on accident.

On another topic, I don't understand why Maki is even an ultimate. She mentions on several occasions that if she were to fail, then her orphanage would stop receiving funds, yet the only things we ever see or hear from her are failure. We've seen Hiro make accurate predictions, Akane does some acrobatics I guess, and Himiko pulls off the underwater escape trick. Maki is useless even in regards to her own talent. If she's the ultimate assassin, I'd hate to see the other assassins considering how bad Maki is at her job.

V3-5, the ultimate assassin with apparent superhuman speed, armed with a knife, a poisoned crossbow, and piloting the DR equivalent of Metal Gear, versus a small child who's inherent response to danger is to make this face: https://imgur.com/a/alL8F and Maki screws up.

Honestly this makes the end twist of V3-6 make sense, because there's no way somebody like Maki would actually be scouted for her talent, as she has no talent.

V3-5, the ultimate assassin with apparent superhuman speed, armed with a knife, a poisoned crossbow, and piloting the DR equivalent of Metal Gear, versus a small child who's inherent response to danger is to make this face and Maki screws up.

That's maybe a little unfair. Maki was clearly about to kill him with ease. She just didn't expect Kaito to jump in to save her from herself.

Maybe a little, but she's supposed to be the Ultimate Assassin, the pinnacle of her talent within her age group, and in a world where there is at least one organization that trains killers from childhood. Surely reckless bystanders and bodyguards protecting her quarry are potential problems she should be ready for.

but she's supposed to be the Ultimate Assassin, the pinnacle of her talent within her age group.

The original TL for talent titles would be Super High School Level rather than ultimate, that means that they don't necessarily have the Apex level of their respective talent in their age group, just that they are in a level that is recognized by the institution giving out those titles.

People give Hiro, Akane, and Himeko flak for contributing nothing to the trials, but ignore Maki even though she is just as bad, if not worse. I'm genuinely not sure if Maki makes a single useful contribution to the trials at all.

She did suggest that the group start thinking about the actual scene of Ryoma's death. And she's part of the group which suggest that the body was transported through the pool.

And they're not technically trial contributions, but during the investigations, she's the one that finds the tape in chapter 3 and starts to look through the computer's files in chapter 4.

Meh. Not the best, not the worst. Really, really all over the place as a character; it feels like Kodaka didn't know what to do with her.

That being said, her constant refusal to put up with any of Kokichi's bullcrap/threatening to end his pathetic ass is one of her better qualities and might be why I'm not so hard against her as some might be.

i never thought about it but this is true. i have a lot of time for anyone who won't indulge the hope-despair-truth-lie fuckboys who get their nut tormenting the cast with their dumb philosophies. i was ready to give the student who knocked off nagito a damn medal but of course he couldn't even give me that (they never do).

Now that I went back to look at this comment section, good lord that's a lot of essays. People sure have a lot to talk about when it comes to Maki, huh. I mean I'm no exception but I haven't seen a comment section filled with criticism this titanic since Chisa.

Just wait until we get to Kokichi...

I'm more interested in Saihara and Kaede's. Both of those are gonna be messy.

Saihara, followed by Akamatsu and Ouma*... Three weeks of HELL on this subreddit. Brace yourselves

Sweet mother of god.

*Makes Post

*Immediately turns off notifications

*Hides indefinitely

It's gonna be quite an interesting split.

s p l i t ! ?

Oh no....

SCRUM DEBATE!

!split

Personally, I feel like the V3 cast feels more fleshed out overall than the casts of the other games (not necessarily all members of the other casts, just that there's no weak links that feel especially flat), so I'm expecting most of these threads to have a bunch of long posts just because there's more to talk about...

Also the localization just came out last September, so they're all fresh in people's minds, and this is the most controversial main game in the series so we can expect some flak to come down on the characters even if they don't totally deserve it...

True. That said, Maki and Tsumugi deserve all the flak they get kek

Talking with Maki as Kaede and then Shuichi was fun. One could tell that she tolerates Shuichi more than Kaede. Maki did not seem to like Kaede's bubbly personality, which makes sense given her dark background.

Also, I'm surprised she didn't go completely crazy after learning that Team DanganR programmed her to like Kaito. That was messed up.

Well, I don't know who is the worst v3 girl, if is Tsumugi or Maki. Honestly, I dislike her role in v3 because she just become Kaito's love interest and that's it. She didn't do anything besides that reveal in chapter 2 regarding her talent and in chapter 3 where she helped to lie regarding Tenko dying imediately. In chapter 4 she was just there and chapter 5 pulled some stupid stuff that definitely makes her hate her while questioning her reasoning. I would like to start the complain saying she and Kaito are forced on you every time, where she reveal her story and try to make you feel sympathized for her but honestly, this doesn't add anything to the story, instead of building the relationship with her and Kaito in the most cliche way (not like it's a bad thing but when is forced on you every time, it gets quite annoying). This kinda pisses me off because some characters that didn't had a good screentime basically was just there to kill or be killed instead of having their development worked. Now, the biggest problems is what she does in chapter 5. If it wasn't already awful that Maki and Kaito are constantly stealing the spotlight somehow, they also get some favoritism aswell. First Maki wanted to kill everyone just for kill Ouma, even though they are the only ones alive (greatest choice Sarcasm) and for make it worse, everyone just forget about it and the game didn't punish her either. She didn't even said sorry for what she did and people just straight forgive her. Also, is already quite cringe to hear "do you want to die?" by someone that is supposed to kill silently without warn.

I thought Maki was a great character with an awesome backstory, interesting character (not the most original, but still interesting), and a decent contribution to the plot, until chapter 5 where her writing took a huge dive bomb, but than her character was great again in chapter 6. I guess it's the romance angle they took with her, and how the game/everyone in the game forgave all of her actions.

Maki hiding evidence from everyone in chapter 2? Nah, it's fine, Shuichi will just lie for this person he hasn't even had a FTE with yet. Maki wanted Shuichi to not give the switch to someone holding Kaito in death's grasp? SHUICHI IS THE WRONG ONE IN THAT SITUATION, OBVIOUSLY! Maki tried to kill everyone without their permission? NOPE, immediately forgiven and forgotten about. She never even apologized about it.

The romance was also really odd. One one hand, it's kind of cute and it's a good way for the character to develop, on the other hand, the romance angle was completely unnecessary and felt forced.

Overall, she's a great character that suffers from poor writing from time to time, especially in chapter 5.

She protec She attac But most important She call you baka

100% waifu material, the community can't appreciate good waifu material.

Do you want to die?

I'm a sucker for cliche heartwarming plots, so having Maki go from being cold to being more open, and her romance with Kaito, really appealed to me. Other than that, though...

I have this weird thing where, if they're not one of the handful characters that I can explicitly say I like or dislike, then I really can't give an opinion them. Maki is one of those characters that I'm generally indifferent towards.

All the V3 survivors kinda take a hit in my book because I'm still super salty about how Keebo was killed at the last second. Whenever I see them together in fanart, I'm just like "Keebo could've been one of them." And it's kinda depressing.

And despite that, I don't really dislike Maki. The only character I can say I actually dislike is Mikan, and even then she just makes me uncomfortable. Miu is close, but it's more because of her vulgar language.

It's really weird. I mean even taking into account her actions in chapter 5, it doesn't really hurt my opinion of her. It's just... meh. I don't really care enough to judge her for that, I guess.

btw the characters I can actually pinpoint my feelings towards are: Keebo (duh), Ishimaru, Gundam, Hagakure, Mahiru, Akane, Fuyuhiko, Kokichi, Kaito, and Mikan. Mikan's the only one who I dislike, though. If you're not one of those, then I couldn't care less.

if it seems like i'm about to rip a strip off maki, i don't mean to. i don't hate her -- she's a solid 5/10, a character i have no strong positive emotions toward but one who doesn't actively irritate me either. that kind of apathy is unfortunate directed toward a character like maki, who's one of the small handful of survivors and who we spend a huge portion of the game interacting with, but i don't dislike her. she's perfectly cromulent. that being said, i can't think of a bigger missed opportunity to do something, anything original with the narrative.

i'm midway through a v3 replay that i'm taking at my own leisurely damn pace, and i haven't reached chapter five. that's sort of the centrepiece chapter for maki (in addition to being the climactic setpiece for almost every major character) and the details aren't very fresh in my memory. so i'll mostly contain my ramblings to maki's role as the ultimate assassin and how it's symptomatic of certain things that plague her character more generally.

i think maki's ultimate title is meant to create some cognitive dissonance around her, or some conflicting idea of whether she can be trusted. that's great in theory, but in practice it doesn't work that way at all. for one thing, the narrative highlights her mitigating factors and downplays her murderous past almost the instant it's revealed. we get these frequent, long, loving reminders of her time at the orphanage, how she took on her role as assassin for ostentatiously selfless reasons, etc. by contrast, her many murders are always glossed over in the most abstract way possible. imagine if maki had a piece of dialogue to the effect of, 'yeah, i cut this guy's throat once and his tongue fell out the hole.' obviously, i don't think she SHOULD have had a line like this because maki as written would never say that (and it would be too disturbing even for danganronpa) but my point is, if the player had to seriously reckon in any way with maki's assassin past, it would be a way more interesting piece of texture to her character. as it is, her killings are only alluded to in a very summary, sanitized way.

on top of that, the question of whether to trust maki is resolved immediately because the game decides for you during the chapter two trial. you trust maki wholeheartedly and lie on her behalf, based entirely on some whim of kaito's gut, even though you've had zero interaction with her and the last time you trusted someone unreservedly she went down for murder. it also feels material that your trust for maki won't even be tested until chapter five, the only case where she plays any kind of pivotal role in the murder. besides some throwaway testimony in chapter one, maki is always a total bystander to the events of any given mystery.

even with all that said, the question of trust is almost moot because it's basically an unwritten rule of danganronpa narrative by this point that there's absolutely no crime so heinous it can't be forgiven, as long as you're not The Big Bad Guy. people obfuscate the trials for petty, personal reasons, endangering the entire cast? forgiven. the remnants of despair? forgiven. hell, the first game has a literal serial killer who not only integrates with the group, but gets co-lead in her own spin-off. this is not a series that believes in punishing good people who do shitty things, even on a massive scale. this is especially true of v3, which bends over backwards to justify nearly all of its murderers. even someone like kirumi (who is 'acting for the greater good' in a utilitarian trolley problem sort of way but is exceptionally duplicitous and manipulative in how she goes about it, even until her dying breath) is given a tear-drenched hero's send-off. obviously, the logical extreme of this as it applies to maki is her conduct in chapter five, though i'm sure many others in this thread will cover that better than i could so go read those posts now.

anyway, all of this speaks to the crux of my issue with maki, which is that she seems on paper like a sort of risky, interesting character, but her narrative is delivered in the most pat, safe way possible. she's a pretty standard defrosting ice queen, her relation with kaito hits familiar, cliche beats (sidebar: i can't think of any danganronpa character who absolutely bombs the bechdel test quite like maki; her entire character is positioned relative to the male cast), and her story arc unfolds in the most predictable way possible. i saw some redditor (maybe u/junkobears
?) posit once that this is sort of funny given that she's ultimately a creation of tsumugi, whom we know was deliberately writing the most formulaic narrative possible in order to appease the fans of danganronpa who like the same reliable pablum year after year.

so yeah. don't hate maki but she could have been much more interesting if they were willing to take any sort of risk with her character.

Maki as the ultimate assassin is Genocide Jack and Sparkling Justice...except unironically.
Thas all i'm gonna say for her.

I've read some posts here and they are pretty much same and true. Eventhough Maki has many writing flaws, she is still pretty high in my ranking overall. I don't know, I do love her design and I agree, she could've been written less edgy, but still, I don't see her as a bad character. I get that everyone has different taste of course and that's what makes these disscusion interesting.

One thing I really hated was her love interest for Kaito. Let's put aside that I do not like him as a character. As many people here said, the issue is chapter 5. She almost killed everyone else because she tried to kill Kokichi and save Kaito. I know she got a "change" because of him, but this change made her worse. All about believing. Plus I don't think it's good to see "an emotionless assasin" falling in love with a wannabe astronaut.

It's shame, it really is, that they didn't stick with her pre-ch3 personality, because it was enjoyable.

My belief in fiction is that an unlikable character can be made endearing by properly building up this character, adding depth to them and allowing them to redeem themselves, that a walking cliche can nevertheless be charming if well-written enough, that a good romance in spite of my usual loathing of such plots can uplift both characters without reducing one to said cliche and a character doing something inadvisably bad can have an amazing epiphany which spurs their character growth and make them become a fan favorite.

Maki in my opinion is none of these things.

People bitch about her a lot, and while they're all fair points to make, I think people have a tendency to seriously overreact. I don't really have any coherent thesis I want to say about her so I'm just going to post my thoughts in random order.

Unpopular opinion, but I liked the assassin twist. I liked it a lot, actually, because I didn't really see anything special in the childcare talent in the first place. And besides, even if you don't like the fakeout, her backstory still includes elements of her initial talent.

I really, really like her relationship with Momota, or dynamic since they're not actually canon. Why? I just thought they had chemistry, that's all. I like the idea of a temperamental yet warm and passionate dude and a cold and skeptical yet temperamental girl together. Harukawa actively calls Momota out on his shit, Momota helps her open up, and the two overall had a balanced dynamic which felt genuine. Lots of people felt they were forced, and I can't deny that the game actively pushes them together, because it does, but I did feel like their interactions were fairly natural. A relationship being forced is really only a problem if it feels stilted and awkward, and that's not really a care with Momoharu imo. Plus, I have a thing for one-sided ships, and Momota's reaction to her telling him she likes him being "well, now you can believe in yourself instead" makes it better. The only issue I have with it is Saihara actively attributing her development to Momota at every step. I mean, it's an obvious fact, and that's really not a bad thing, but it's just a case where we don't need a reminder due to how obnoxious it comes off.

Her dynamic with Saihara is...well, it's not great, but it's not awful either. Personally, I find the problem with it lies in stuff like, let's say, how Saihara decides to believe in her innocence in Chapter 2 because Momota said so. Like, that's just dumb. Hardcore dumb. I know Saihara is ultra biased, but it's just a major plot convenience. Other than that, "do you want to die?" is corny, but that doesn't necessarily make it bad, and while their interactions have a lot to do with Momota, it didn't feel like they had no friendship at all. Actually, I thought how she tried to get them to make up in Chapter 5 was actually kind of adorable. D'awwwwwwwwww.

Her actions in Chapter 5 are actually really interesting, especially since they're not...entirely based around Momota. The problem lies less in what she did more than just simply pacing issues preventing her from fully confronting this. They kinda just skipped the process of development and went "okay she's cool now!" because they were trying to juggle too many things at once, so she kind of got the short end of the stick.

The "defrosting the ice queen" trope has been done so many times before, but I don't see how it's automatically bad. I'm all for freshness and originality but let's face it, a lot of DR characters are cliches. Togami's arc is a huge cliche, Fukawa's a cliche (And I'm pretty sure a few meta jokes are made about this one), Komaeda's a cliche in concept because the "edgy version of protag" trope has been done. I guess because Harukawa's more tsundere, which is admittedly an annoying trope, it makes it worse, but y'know.

I will admit there were times where she does come off as too...precious? Like I mentioned tsundere behavior in the last paragraph, so while she's absolutely vicious with her insults, there are times where she comes off kind of cutesy. Like that one sprite with her cheeks puffed out. That kind of cute.

Harumaki has this thing where she's a different character in the main plot, and in her FTEs. In the main story, she relates to Saihara being forced into his talent, and tells him to remember he's himself first, and a detective second. But in the FTEs, she encourages Saihara to be a detective and reveal secrets so she doesn't have to kill people after said secrets get leaked. That's just...weird.

But anyways, I do love Harumaki as a character. I like how she's actually a pretty caring person, but she keeps trying to distance herself from any relationships because she's experienced nothing but pain from connecting with people.

I also like how she doesn't have a comedic spin on her talent...for the most part. It's not really a cool thing to be an assassin - it obviously broke her emotionally, mentally, and physically. But there's that Ch.4 hidden event where, for some god forsaken reason, her talent is trying to be portrayed as "cute", or "cool". It doesn't help that Saihara and Momota just laugh it off as if it's just an embarassing story. The "Do you wanna die" line also has me confused at times. I get that at the beginning it's just her brashly reacting, which is pretty in-character, and I also like how later she tries to use it as a joke because she's feeling more comfortable around people. But there are some times in the story where it's kinda...weird. Like, you don't know if she's serious or not.

Anyways, speaking of Momota, I dunno how to feel about their relationship. On one hand, it makes sense that Harumaki is so clingy towards him, and it's in-character for Momota that he'd reach out to someone, even if they're sending him death threats every minute. But, at times it feels way too corny and forced, and the fact that Harumaki gets a free pass after the 5th trial basically just because she was a maiden in love or whatever bugs me a lot, too. And I dunno how to feel about that part where she says he's the first person she ever cared for or loved, even though her backstory obviously says otherwise, but maybe I'm just too dumb to understand Kodaka's idea of romance, or too biased against Momota, haha. Also a small pet peeve, but in the Ch4 Scrum Debate, I feel like she should've taken Saihara's side, since she herself said that Ouma couldn't have possibly killed Iruma because of his special avatar settings and all, but that's just nitpicking.

In the main story, she relates to Saihara being forced into his talent, and tells him to remember he's himself first, and a detective second. But in the FTEs, she encourages Saihara to be a detective and reveal secrets so she doesn't have to kill people after said secrets get leaked. That's just...weird.

These things are not mutually exclusive, Shuichi can do his job while still not letting that define who he is.

But there's that Ch.4 hidden event where, for some god forsaken reason, her talent is trying to be portrayed as "cute", or "cool"

If I remember correctly they apologize for laughing about it later since it actually a quite serious mistake for her.

Maki Harukawa. What can I say about her. Well for starters I love all the V3 characters so there may not be much of me to say negatively. I mean I do like her design. As an Assassin her job is to kill quickly. Not to prolong a fight. So it would make sense to me that She would dress simple for someone that would focus on efficiency. I do like her story arc where she is learning to be more social with others. I also like how in a cast of otherwise goofy characters she is one of the few strait men of this group. Finally I also like her relationship with Kaito. It's nice to ship people in DR but to have actual confirmed feelings for another character is nice. Does make me wish what would happen if Kaito didn't have his disease.

Of course now that I am done with my likes now on to my dislikes. While I do not hate any of the V3 kids Maki does have her fair share of complaints from me. For on thing back to her design. Those twintails she's got are just impractical. Not only is it just a poor choice to have in general, it makes even less sense as an assassin. I always saw Maki to be a practical but caring person. So why would she have a hairstyle that would make doing her job difficult? As for her place in the story.... well. I get that her arc is supposed to be her trying be not see herself as a cold heartless assassin but in hindsight you should probably make her a little more sociable to others. The only people that she has interactions with on a social level is Kaito and Shuichi. Everybody else Maki either is indifferent like Gonta and Ryoma, or hates like Tsumugi and Kokichi. The only other person I've seen her interact with normally in the main game is Himiko and that's for her constant bad jokes. I feel like they should have Maki at least talk to others bacuase I have to agree to an extant that everything about Maki is basically Kaito-centric in the game.

While on the topic of relationships let's talk about one of her most notable ones, Kokichi. I get that she hates him and everything but I feel like in my opinion whenever it's Maki vs. Kokichi I always feel that Kokichi is more right. Like when Kokichi revealed Maki's talent should we feel hatred or anything towards Kokichi? I mean Maki was hiding a secret from everyone and while Maki did react suddenly, I feel like it would be better to know that an assassin is among us. Then there is Chapter 4's Scrum debate which was weird to me. That Scrum Debate was supposed to separate the emotional from the logical so why is Maki siding with the people who don't even want to discuss the possibility that Gonta is the culprit? She even made points that favored Kokichi's defense? Then there is Chapter 5 which I will get to later, but let's just say that I did not think highly of Maki at the time. I mean the only time I would feel for Maki was at the end of Chapter 4's trial and the Koichi's reveal in Chapter 5. Other than that I don't get why Maki would hate Kokichi muh before that. I mean I get him being a brat but if it weren't for Kokichi Maki would still be in front of her lab door all day. I at least like how Maki isn't so hostile of Kokichi in the end but that required a shit ton of stuff to go down. Overall I feel like if they wanted us to side with Maki more against Kokichi I think there should have been situations where you would want to Side with Maki that do not have Kokichi looking like a villian. Cause that's how it was for me. In order to side with Maki, Kokichi had to go out of his way to be a dick.

Now on to the atocity that was Maki in Chapter 5. I take offense to this as a a person and as a wannabe writer. Not only does Maki break the promise she made with everyone which goes against her character arc of trying to connect with others but she also shoots Kokichi with torture poison and tries to hide it. Then she tried to fuck up the class trial by trying to get everyone killed just to get back at Kokichi. I am offended not only because she made the decision to sacrifice 4 of her fellow classmates to get rid of one student, but because it is never brought up again. Seriously how is it that she is never talked to about this. She just betrayed everyone's trust and gets off the hook. I get that at the moment everyone was preoccupied but this is never brought up afterwards for the rest of the game. Maki should have faced some kind of consequence from her peers but NOPE. This I felt was just a poor example of writing in V3 as Maki is basically given a free card for her shit even though everyone else in the cast has done something wrong. Just Chapter 5 in general did not make sense for one of the most logical characters in the game to make a fuck up llike that. And on a personal note, I just don't like what she did to Kokichi that Chapter. I'll say a lot about Tsumugi but I will say this. At least she didn't pull the trigger on the crossbow.

As a person I don't know how I would react. I consider myself to be a more serious person with darker tendencies. Maki in general is kinda edgy. Her "Do you wanna die?" comments are just scary and do more to turn people away. She incredibly cold to others and does not really know how to socialize well. I mean she can if she tries but I would rather spend time with Miu the literal whore of the class that the edgy assassin.

Overall while I do love every character from V3, Maki actually is among tha characters that have the most complaints from me. The only other character that has more complaints from me than Maki is Kaito. And I'm gonna save that foe Kaito's discussion.

I like Maki, but for too long she just felt like Kirigiri 2.0 with a bit more edge, and that ultimately places her in the lower echelons of my "protag sidekick" hierarchy.

The ending recontextualizes all of this, of course, but my feelings about her as a character remain more or less the same.

She's pretty ugly imo

Maki is an idiotic psychopath and never gets punished for it, and is, in fact, encouraged.

Fuck her and fuck Kaito.

I like Maki, I really do. And it hurts me a lot to see such an interesting character with a heartwarming arc get so much hate. I won't disagree that there could have been some call outs to the rash actions she took in ch6 but that's not the fault of her character but rather the game as a whole since Maki is still trying her best to be positive and show everyone that she trying to turn over a new leaf.

Her personality isn't the most entertaining one. But, that's okay cause not everyone has to throw funny one liners. And saying that she is a bad character because she isn't entertaining is like saying Introverts are inferior to Extraverts which is BS and I will take it with a huge grain of salt cause I am an Introvert myself. She is also rude and grumpy for the most part but she is rude because of the life she has lived. She was always like that yet at the same time she doesn't go out of her way to say nasty shit like Byakuya and Sayonji.

As for the "do you want to die?" shtick, I admit that it's grating. Granted it is used to show how she is opening up to others so it's not like it exists without a reason. And besides that, her dialogue is completely fine. The reason it feels grating at times is because Danganronpa is similar to Jojo in the way the author sometimes like to "meme" by letting the characters say eccentric lines and repeating that until it sets itself into the brain of the people who are experiencing that work. And while I would appreciate if Kodaka toned down on the overuse of catchphrases I also can't dislike an entire character just because Kodaka likes to "meme". The parts where the author isn't trying to meme have completely fluent dialogue. However whether " do you want to die" is a good meme or not is an entirely different discussion.

And of course, the whole "Maki's arc is cliche" argument. Let me just say that NOTHING in this world is original. There can be some saturation in a medium but how can you blame Kodaka or Maki for this? In fact, I bet there are a lot of people who haven't experienced an arc like this simply because the probability of people missing out on shows that have similar arc to Maki's is pretty high. Calling it cliche and trying to use it as a legitimate criticism is just simply selfish and disregarding all the people who haven't experienced something like this.

And her arc itself is well executed and it's a huge upgrade on Kirigiri since I felt like her arc was somewhat shoved into the final chapter of DR1 and was ultimately rushed. And her condition was still less extreme than Maki's so it doesn't even feel like much of an accomplishment when she changes.

As for her actions in ch5 I understood why she did the things she did. People defend Gonta as a cinnamon roll when he tried to kill everyone but when Maki tries to kill Kokichi who she thought was a remnant of despair (The flashback light probably described a remnant of despair as someone crazy who can't be reasoned with no matter what which is true to what we saw in DR2) and thought she was permanently ending the death game by killing the mastermind which is the same thing KAEDE TRIED TO DO but i guess it's all ignored just because Maki was wrong and Kokichi wasn't the mastermind or a remnant. Kaede was also wrong too and she also did a pretty rash thing but somehow Maki is an asshole for trying to do something similar to her?

Not to mention the fact that inexperienced fighters would just get in the way or get hurt if Kokichi resisted and Shuichi and the others are too kind-hearted to kill Kokichi so she had to take action.

And her actions during the trial is completely understandable because Kokichi indirectly killed the person who said she needed to change and Maki herself would simply not accept a death where Kokichi a remnant/mastermind who orchestrated the death and suffering of everyone/the person who indirectly killed Kaito would laugh and mock her during her execution. So why wouldn't she do the things she did during the trial. And she didn't even have a better alternative since dying such a pathetic way was not an option. And you cannot blame Maki for trying to protect herself even if her goal wasn't to "live".

This is also why the other characters couldn't say anything to her despite her ill intent and harsh words because they understood that Maki had no other way and surely they wouldn't say:

"Hey Maki, you don't care about whether you live or not. And you definitely hate yourself. So you should let us totally lynch you"

I would prefer if Maki had a heart to heart conversation with everyone and apologized for saying and intending such mean things while also admitting that her rash behavior resulted in this blunder in the first place. But that's probably the biggest complaint I have and it almost feels like a lost opportunity than an actual flaw since she had so many justifications for the things she did and due to the flashback light everyone knew what a remnant of despair was. There is also the fact that Shuichi and Keebo are generally nice people, Himiko wanted to be on the good side of her and Tsumugi was the mastermind. There is no Kokichi like character to rub salt on the wound so unless Maki comes out and apologizes herself there won't be much call outs.

If Tsumugi didn't exist Maki would be my least favorite girl in the game, not to say I dislike both but I don't find them as interesting compared to the rest of the cast, especially because like Chiaki the game try's to make you like her as much as possible and it ends up feeling forced. She's cute though I'll give her that

Maki was okay.

I like Maki, I understand the complaints the people have with her but they're not too bad for me.

Contrary to the opinion here, I think Maki's love story with Kaito was the best part of her character, and one of the most enjoyable stories in the game.

I loved that the writers didn't beat around the bushes and just gave us a straight-up love story. It gave Maki the chance to fall in love, deal with it, and have a resolution when she finally admitted it to herself. Whether Kaito felt the same way remains a mystery, but it tied a nice bow on Maki's main story. Throughout the story she struggled with opening up, as well balancing her newfound feelings of love and friendship with her duty as an assassin. Throughout the game she was on the edge of killing, coming close but eventually failing thanks to Kaito. After this she no longer doubted her path in life. It also helped that we had another killer in the group who actually murdered people for once, giving her some leeway.

She's far from perfect though. I liked Maki and greatly enjoyed her story. But for those who didn't like her she was forced upon them for 3-4 chapters. Even Kyoko had the modesty to not be in your face all the time. It was obvious from chapter 3 she'd survive, which was a little disappointing.

The fifth trial is also one of my least favorites. It felt obvious, and when redoing it a second time it occasionally feels awkward. Something just didn't fit. The ending made up for most of it, but I agree with the others that Maki should've faced some kind of punishment, realization, something, for pretty much getting Kaito and Kokichi killed (or at least setting their deaths in motion). Asahina tried the same thing, but the difference here is that 1) at that point Asahina hadn't received a lot of development, so it was great for her character and 2) I can believe Asahina doing that since she's more simple-minded and didn't have any deep connections with the rest of the cast. Maki's sharp, she should've known better.

So do I like her? If I had to do a ranking she'd probably not end in the top half, but I still like her a lot. I think she was a lovely addition and appreciated how the love story wasn't subtle for once. She could've been handled better, especially in the second half (I do wish she was something else than an assassin. Maybe an expert in poisons, something more unique), but not enough for me to dislike her.

i feel like it's a hot take not to like the fifth trial, but for the record, i agree. i think it has the trappings of epicness and there's some clever tricks in the mystery, but ultimately it takes the long way around to a fairly predictable conclusion. idk how it went for you, but i didn't for a second think kaito was the one under the press.

I was actually on the fence for a while and never 100% sure, but as soon as I finished it felt a little disappointing. "That's it?" kind of feeling.

It's by no means a bad trial, but like you said, it feels like it could've been so much better. It's like the developers wanted to make it epic and mind-blowing like D2's fifth trial, but ended up focusing too much on the "complicated" part on too little on the "enjoyable" part.

yeah, i agree. i also think the pivot of 'who killed whom' is a bit of a self-defeating one because no matter whodunnit, they're both dead by the end of the chapter. if it were a larger pool of mystery contestants (for example, say all three of kaito, kokichi and maki are missing during the trial), then it would have some stakes because one of them survives. as it is, you're sort of just litigating who gets the right to be executed by monokuma.

I like Maki's character. I don't know if that's a popular or unpopular view in this subreddit but she certainly seems a very divisive character.

On one hand I can understand some complaints regarding her character, like regarding how she didn't apologize properly after her stunt in chapter 5 (granted that's more of a pacing issue and I think she regretted what she did well enough to sacrifice herself for Himiko and Shuichi's sake), on the other hand some other complaints feel hollow, for example, her supposed "edgyness". When I played the game I never really thought she was as edgy as some people say, she felt like a girl trying to get over her assassin nature and become a better person even though it was hard to shake off antics that she obviously spent her whole life experiencing. I mean, can you guys imagine the kind of place she lived in to the point where "do you want to die" became her catchphrase? I think a lot of people undermine her backstory because it's cliche buying into the whole meme of something that is cliche = something that is bad. Well, let me tell you guys something: almost nothing in this world is original, everything is copied from something else and altered, at least Maki's arc is new for DR, it was the first time in the series where actual love of one character for another was confirmed rather than the silly subtext DR generally uses and it's also the first time a Mukuro like character gets to develop and live.

Another complaint I don't agree with is when people call Maki, Kyoko 2.0. I frankly don't understand since they couldn't be more different even if they tried. Maki is extremely emotional and hot headed even if she passes the impression that she is a cold and aloof person. Kyoko passes the impression that she is cold and aloof...and she actually is all of it.

One of the things I like about Maki is how she is the main girl of the game but isn't the love interest of the protag. I like that she and Shuichi were just friends and I liked how their banter was when they had the opportunity to spend time alone.

On the topic of her love interest, funnily enough I don't think Kaito reciprocated, in a different universe he may have but with everything that was happening there I think he just saw Maki as his sidekick.

i see the link between kyoko and maki in terms of them being superficially similar characters (their designs and general demeanours) and filling similar roles in relation to the main characters. the commonalities end there -- kyoko is far more often acting independently and pursuing her own agenda, is more proactive in solving the central mystery of the game, is more competent in hashing out the individual murder cases, etc. -- but using kyoko as a jumping off point in analyzing maki isn't crazily misguided or anything to me.

There is no denying that they're superficially similar but when you get down and actually analyze their characters it's really easy to notice that they couldn't be more different, as you said Kyoko is proactive, pursued her own agenda and often acted indenpently, Maki was dependent on both Kaito and Shuichi and when they had problems in their friendship she was rather lost trying to get them to talk to each other again. That's why I don't think the comparision is apt.

And 2.0 implies a "better" version but imo, Kyoko's story and character are told much better than Maki's but thats just my opinion :)

Yeah but when some people used to refer to Maki as Kyoko 2.0 they generally tried to imply that Maki was a retake on Kyoko's character.

Anyway I do like Kyoko better than Maki even though I 'm a fan of how Maki was allowed to fuck up spendidly in the series compared to Kyoko. When Kyoko somewhat fucked up in Dr1, Makoto was there to save her and I kind of wanted her iron mask to fall just once.

I like Maki also but looking back on it, other than Maki being cute, I'm not really sure what I liked about her, but I could talk about why I love Kyoko's character all day lol

I like Maki, shes my favorite girl in V3 but I think her relationship with kaito couldve been better. I have no reason to really believe that maki's feelings for kaito are genuine when kaito doesnt really treat her any differently than anyone else and she just "loves" him in such a short amount of time. Maybe I'm the only one that thinks this, but of all of the ships that we have that are romantic in nature, the most "natural" progressing ship is Naegiri atm. Its clear that the creators really care for the Naegiri ship alot and I wish they would show other ships the same kind of treatment and care :/

Maki is my favorite girl from V3. I know most of you read that and thought how is that even possible. While I don't think I can make people like Maki who don't I hope and can at least prove why I don't think she's one of the worst Danganronpa charactersand why she is my favorite female character

Maki is a very edgy person. Out of the gate people are not going to like her for that very reason. On top of that Maki is a tsundere and not a modern you mistakenly see her naked she slaps you and calls you Baka no Maki at times is just a real bitch honestly. One of the problems I have with her is that she does a lot of things that are wrong but instead of learning from them the game paint her in the right. The biggest example being when she tried to kill kokichi and while I did ending up helping in the long run by making kaito agree to the plan in order to save the her that does not make what she did right. It would have been better if Someone besides kokichi called her out on how she's acting but anyone else who I think would have was already dead besides maybe shuichi but I don't think they would make the protagonist do that to a character that's not the "villain"

On the surface maki may be very cool and edgy upfront. But she's really caring, sweet, and girly even if she doesn't make to show it. I know it's not the most original Character design but I still think it's compelling. I just think she's cute and I don't just mean how she looks but the kind of person you would want to protect and believe in themselves.

Maki's big character development comes really late in the game and it would have helped if she got it earlier. Her interactions with shuichi were way better in the last chapter then the rest of the game. Although when she mocked shuichi asking if he ever even touched a girl was really mean but funny. If a game comes out that takes places after V3 such as a ultra despair girls two. She would really benefit from it the most out of the survivors.

I don't want to start a shipping war and get a bunch of downvotes but I don't think it's possible to talk about maki without talking about love. Her romantic relationships felt very weird and I'm super conflicted. Maki feels like she was made to be with both kaito and shuichi . The last free time event with maki felt weird because it honestly felt like shuichi was kinda getting cucked a little. I know theirs a lot of people who hate shuichi x maki with a burning passion but I still think it was implied very lightly in the game. At the very least getting to see them act together would be good I think they have very good chemistry. They could both comfort each other on the pain of watching the person they love die in the killing game.

As I said early Maki is very cute. While some might get mad about her having two talents it really represents maki very well. The cold no nonsense front that she puts up verses her caring side that she doesn't want to admit that she has. Maki love hotel event is my favorite woh Kaede being a close second and maki just wanting someone to be her friend and love her was super sweet.

I know that my reason may not seem super deep but I still think maki gets more hate then she deserves. I do think some of it is very vailed and that it would have been nicer if she help more to the plot of the game then just making rash bad decision. But overall i truly believe that maki is a very endearing sweet character that I'm very happy was included in V3.

Also beside she personality she's just so fucking cute

Maki Harukawa - Ultimate "What the Hell"

Honestly the only thing i like about Maki was she actually surprised me, i didn't expect her being a assassin, her backstory is fucked up and i didn't expect all her actions in Chap.5

That said i really dislike Maki, my least favorite V3 character and my least favorite female character in the serie

She is just "Yasuke Matsuda meets DR3!Makoto Naegi", and Yasuke is my absolute least favorite character in the whole series, they are 2 asshole pricks and serial killers who we are supposed be sorry because they have a tragic backstory, and while Maki is better than him at least he died, Maki instead paid no consequences for her actions, and don't say "loosing Kaito" was her punishment, he was domed to die anyway

what was the point of this character? i lost all my respect and interest for her when i learned she was a assassin, no matter what is her backstory i won't feel sorry for a serial killer, specially if we see her kill people, for example, even before DR3 people felt compassion for the Remanent of Despair from DR2, because even if they killed people, we know before manipulation/brainwashing/whatever they were actually nice people with their struggles, and we have never seen them killing people, so we don't really know much about her evil side other the fact they were evil, Jack is similar, all we know is: they killed faceless people but they were once nice people, if the story is said like that is easier to like them

with Maki instead, we see a big jerkass and we have seen her killing people, friendly reminder tried to kill kokichi with torture serum/strychnine poison in the ENG release (from Strychnine poison Wiki):

Ten to twenty minutes after exposure, the body's muscles begin to spasm, starting with the head and neck in the form of trismus and risus sardonicus. The spasms then spread to every muscle in the body, with nearly continuous convulsions, and get worse at the slightest stimulus. The convulsions progress, increasing in intensity and frequency until the backbone arches continually. Convulsions lead to lactic acidosis, hyperthermia and rhabdomyolysis. These are followed by postictal depression. Death comes from asphyxiation caused by paralysis of the neural pathways that control breathing, or by exhaustion from the convulsions. The subject usually dies within 2–3 hours after exposure.

What the Hell, Maki

I hate when people hate character because they are evil or they killed/hurt somebody, but there is a limit, and i'm not shamed to say i dislike Maki for her sadism.

I'm not saying there is a limit for sadism, if it was Junko or Korekiyo to shoot somebody with that poison it would be ok because they are villans and we aren't supposed feel sorry for them, while for maki is differents we are supped to like her as "main hero" character, not as villan, in fact i know a excellent and popular villan who is a bitchy young girl who is a serial killer who also uses poison, also she is the hero's "girlfriend", but she has also a sad complex past and she is also paranoid wich is the source of almost all her problems, the nice thing is we aren't supposed feel bad for her in slightest and this make her a good villan because she is a monster but she has also depths.

But this doesn't count for Maki, nobody cares about what she did, and she also gets her happy ending :D

if Kodaka wanted do the "serial killer becomes a good person" Ryoma was a better candidate: he killed less people, he know he had the choise between "don't kill the mafia and move on" or "kill the mafia and ruin forever your life", he is a nice guy and not a haether-level bitch like Maki, he probably won't harm anybody for the rest his life, so no "i tortured Koki but nobody cares"

if anything i like her relationship with Kaito and i liked how her love wasn't 100% healthy, even though it ruined a bit Kaito's character, but this is for Kaito's discussion

last thing: BEHOLD THE ULTIMATE ASSASSIN: a girl with twintails , miniskirts , no scars and thigh high socks, i actually love Mukuro's simple design because she actually looks like a real life soldier: short hair, simple outfits, a a tattoo (well in movies, many soldiers have tattoos); Maki looks a typical teenager, a teenager with a simple work like being a caregiver...

load more comments (3 replies)

I'm going to be honest Maki has pretty much everything I'd want in a character. She's cute, badass, tsundere, has twintails, has a tragic past, has my favorite design in drv3, and besides Himiko has some of the best character development in the game.

I think her relationship with Kaito wasn't forced, though considering the circumstances it wouldn't probably have normally happened anywhere but a killing game. Her crying for Kaito before his execution broke my heart, and I thought her confession was bittersweet.

I really do love this character, and while yes she's edgy and her actions in trial 5 or in general may be dislikeable, but underneath that cold look she gives lives a relatively normal girl who truly wishes she was one.

The first playthrough of Danganronpa, I honestly enjoyed Maki for what she was, even going through Chapter 5 (best chapter in the game for me). After looking back on it, and reading through some details I didn't realize, I still like her, but do see some flaws issues with the character

I think the best place to start is with her backstory and talent as an assassin. From my experiences with some of the FTE's that I've seen, they all from a lack of details, and in Maki's case, another side to her past. Maki's backstory goes the extra mile to make her sympathetic-volunteering to be an assassin for a friend, who eventually died, enduring grueling training, and having to be good at her job to support the orphanage she came from, explaining where her false talent as a caregiver came from. This in itself is not bad, but I see too problems with it, the lesser of which is laying it on a bit thick with the suffering she went through. A harsh lifestyle makes sense, but being blatantly tortured regularly, and a brief moment reminiscing on the past, is a bit much for me.

The bigger issue connects to her past, and the events of the game, Maki's talent as an Ultimate Assassin. Next to Ryoma, Maki is the nicest murderer ever. She kills people for the sake of her friend and small children, she hardly ever uses her talent, and at her worst, she's just mildly cold to people. For almost all of the game, Maki could have stayed the Ultimate Caregiver, and I feel like her development would have been the same. Kaito and Shuichi insists that she's changed, but she never felt like a cold-blooded assassin to change from, just a regular girl learning to open up. I get the issue of being buddy-buddy with a character that is blatantly dangerous, but having to spend time with a dangerous assassin out of necessity would have been more interesting. Maki is harmless and normal, more often than not isolated out of choice than necessity.

Heck, the biggest thing is what isn't mentioned-the lives she has taken. Maki supposedly killed people for "complicated" reasons, supposedly for a good cause. Is she being completely truthful? Was there nothing she could have done? Is she in the right for killing people who could have been important, or had friends and loved ones who cared for them? We don't know, because those sorts of questions are never brought up, meaning no moral ambiguity for the paid murderer.

There are only two times where her talent is utilized, both thanks to Kokichi. The first time, our genius leader antagonizes her, outs her talent, and nearly gets his neck snapped. Don't ask me why, or how Kokichi knew she wouldn't injure him in a way that avoided killing him, but it happened. The other issue is in the fifth trial and… yeah, this is where the major issue comes up, with Maki being willing to kill everyone in the class just to get to Kokichi. On it's own, I can at least defend it as Maki being blinded with rage and so desperate to out the manipulative liar who was "revealed" to be the Mastermind all along, who is indirectly responsible for Kaito's "death". The bigger issue is the aftermath, where no one seems bothered that she was willing to kill everyone just to destroy Kokichi. DR in general has a lot of characters doing nonsense that would be more barable if people called them out on it, and actually made them THINK about what they did. Maki is one such character who needed such a thing. It honestly feels like a major writing oversight, which is why I missed it the first time-the issue is probably passed over so quickly without anyone lingering on it.

After that, there's not a ton more to say. Maki was made a part of the main trio of the game, and one of the survivors. As a whole, Maki's free times were almost solely focused on her past as an assassin, so the times when she was most enjoyable for me was when she was with Shuichi and Kaito. I really would have liked it if the group gradually had gotten bigger, but as it stands, it's a solid foundation, even if I think Maki's development should be different for an Ultimate Assassin. As for the survival… I didn't like the ending, and I'll be frank, I'm really just okay with the survivors group at best. Shuichi and Maki feel like they needed to be closer and work together more to feel close enough for the survival together to really hit home. Kaito was sort of a bridge that helped the two of them relate to each other and synergize. Not bad, but it feels like it could be better. Also, Himiko is there, and… does some stuff, maybe... yeah... I'll get to her when I get to her.

I'll be honest, I get why people dislike her, but for me, Maki never had any overtly annoying moments throughout the game, and her little trio with Shuichi and Kaito was nice. Certainly not perfect, but I'm happy to say that I like her.

I understand your reasons and they are well put. For me it's not that I hate anyone in V3. On the contrary I love everyone in the V3 cast. So when I say my opinion on a character it's more about comparisons to other characters in the game and issues with their handling and overall characters. I like Maki but there are some points with the story and her as a person that I have gripes with. Not anything I would label "stupid".

That's fair. I do find there to be some dumb moments with character, but the more I look into it, I think the worst problems with characters are in how the story handles them, and that sort of hurts them in terms of development. One reoccurring problem is characters just being annoying or stupid without anyone calling them out on it. Characters can make mistakes, be obtuse, or even horrible, but at minimum, SOMEONE should take note of it, ideally for the sake of making characters reflect on their actions and change.

I can only imagine how much less flak Maki would get if Shuichi and the others made her think about the larger problems with her plan, and at least get her to acknowledge that she nearly killed all of her friends. That isn't something that can be waved away and forgotten.

id yeet

I thought Maki was ok. Probably when she really hooks up with Kaito is when her good moments slump a little, like trying to sacrifice herself twice in Case 5 & 6. Though, I don't think that's entirely her fault (I'll mention this in another character discussion). Aside from that, she was somewhat helpful when the situation needed like lying for Shuichi in Case 3 about Tenko dying instantly than slowly. But yeah, I can't think of anything else that left a huge impact on me.

I find her character design extremely attractive. Also she's a better survivor than Himiko. Unfortunately that is all I have to say besides that I am not sure at all whether her "Do you wanna die?!" comes from her sense of humour or her secret talent as the Ultimate Torturer, or just a result of being severely maladjusted to society. Since, well, it doesn't quite fit an assassin to threaten someone with death when she's already supposed to kill.

[deleted]

but she's kinda stuck in the fanbase's least favorite game

DR1 or UDG?

and she's part of the most hated cast

DR1's cast?

I'm really bummed out to see how people hate V3 and the characters that much.

Don't take the word of a few people on reddit as gospel about how the fanbase feels in general. You should take a look at all the polls concerining DR that we had here, like these: 1 and 2

My opinion on her is that she is likeable but also she is also terribly cliched. She is mix of little miss assassin, tsundere, defrosting ice queen and so on. She is still better written than Hiro, Hifumi and half of DR3 cast but it's not great compliment. However I think last chapter redeemed her from narrative point of view - she filled her role in the plot. Her "I will believe in myself" was touching and make sense only in context of her character development and wouldn't make sense if it was spoken by anybody else.

She is said to be Kodaka favourite and it makes me think that Kodaka gives his favourites weird treatment.

Toko - It took him 2 games to give her proper development.

Ibuki - He have never given her any subplot nor in DR2 nor in anime nor in OVA.

Maki - He tried so hard to make her as hated as possible with chapter 2 believe bullshit, chapter 5 trial and so on.

[deleted]

and other trying to protect Kaito

No, she wasn't trying to protecting Kaito. She legitimately believed there was no way he was alive since she thought he would never kill someone and that there was no way Kokichi would give him the antidote.

Maki is my favorite female character in v3. I loved the friendship bewteen her shuichi and kaito.

I liked Maki more than I thought originally. From her character reveal I knew should would play an important role. I was never convinced she was the ultimate child care taker especially the way she threatened Gonta in chapter 2. I do understand that this game was forcing her to the players like Chiaki and Kyoko but she's a character with faults we can discuss on compared to Chiaki and Kyoko. Her romance with Kaito felt out of place in Danganronpa but it was interesting since the dynamic duo for once wasn't the MC. Maki's role in chapter 5 felt odd since she said she doesn't like killing but went out of her way to kill Kokichi assuming he's an ultimate despair and for kidnaping Kaito. She's overall one of my favourite V3 character and I appreciate her character.

Character Discussion #68 - Tenko Chabashira (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


Part 1 of 3

While my hype for her has gone down a bit since finishing the game, I still love her character and what she had to offer.

Tenko was easily the least popular character pre-release because of her controversial man hating trait. While she wasn't my least favorite, I was put off by her personality and her design. However, I was pleasantly surprised by how much they dialed back her hatred for males when playing the game. I think the reason why her schtick didn't bother me much was, despite saying that she hates men, Tenko gets along fine with them during the game and even shows them support. This makes sense because it is revealed in her harmonious heart event that Tenko doesn't have a genuine hatred for men and is just something that she spouts. Instances of her showing support include:

In Chapter 1, Tenko joins Kaito's group to fight the Monokumas once the time ran out, and when Kaede and Shuichi tells them that the mastermind is in the library, the two compete with each other to see who would be the first to beat the mastermind up.

In the Chapter 1 trial, Tenko praises Gonta for being reasonable and understanding to Kirumi's accusation of him.

After Kaede's execution, Tenko comforts Shuichi when he asks to be left behind and tells him to not beat himself up with a concerned look.

At the start of Chapter 2, Tenko defends Shuichi when Kokichi mocks him about Kaede's death. Tenko later gives Shuichi encouragement so that he and everyone else will escape the killing game when they were exploring the new areas.

At the beginning of Chapter 3, Tenko promises to carry on Ryoma's and Rantaro's wishes and survive the killing game.

When exploring her research lab, Tenko points out Shuichi's lack of confidence in himself, and encourages him to practice Aikido to help him overcome his problems.

In her FTE's, Tenko feels bad enough for throwing Shuichi and knocking him out cold that she carries him back to his room.

However, even though her schtick is nowhere near as bad as I thought it would be, I do have a couple of problems with it. The first problem being the stupid reason as to why she thinks this in her free time events. Her having a super dark past wouldn't work either because it would be very contradictory to her energetic personality, but having the reason for her hatred be her naivety feels really disappointing. The other problem I have with it has to do with how no one really responds back to her ridiculous remarks about males. Not even that, but no one points out her hypocrisy with the way she acts towards Himiko being really similar to how she says men are creepy perverts. I know that her being a hypocrite is a comedic part of her character, but the writers could have utilized that part of her better.

Part 2 of 3

With that aside, I found Tenko's personality to be really enjoyable and relatable. Her childish nature and how she wears her emotions makes for a really charming person, and what I love most about her behavior is because I see a lot of myself in her character. Like Tenko, I have a habit of reacting with my emotions and am not afraid to share with others with how I'm feeling and what's on my mind. I also have a tendency to say things really loudly when I'm having a normal conversations which is a trait that Tenko has as well which makes for a compelling character to me since I'm pretty sure that 95% of Tenko's lines end with an exclamation mark! And whenever she interacts with girls, Tenko is shown to be a really sweet and caring person. There are multiple times during the game where Tenko offers to protect the girls from danger, with the biggest example being when she, Kaito, and Gonta take on the exisals to help save Kaede from punishment. And of course there's her friendship with Himiko(which I will touch on later) where she tries to help her overcome her suppression of her emotions which shows how compassionate she is to others. Finally, she is one of the most kind hearted and supportive characters from the cast. Tenko likes to compliment others and make them feel great about themselves, which I find to be really likable in a character. Putting aside her degenerate male gag, Tenko's personality is really charming and endearing. Her strong emotional core, her supportive nature, and her childish thinking are all traits that I can relate to and all are traits that I like in a character.

Moving onto her FTE's, I can't say that I felt satisfied by the end because of her explanation as to why she hates men. Her reason for hating men happening due to a misunderstanding is unsatisfying and pretty stupid even for her character. However, there were plenty of good moments in her events. I love her admiration for idols and the fact that she and her master dress up as superheroes and travel around their city committing harmless good deeds in the name of justice such as her walking old ladies across the street. These moments do a great job at highlighting her childish behavior.

My favorite thing about Tenko though has to be her friendship with Himiko and how it was written. The writers did a great job at expanding on these two characters through their relationship and how it helped them both grow as people.

At first glance, Tenko and Himiko's relationship combine two dynamics that have been established in the previous games. The stalker/stalkee dynamic(Toko/Byakuya and Kazuichi/Sonia) and the mother/daughter dynamic(Mahiru/Hiyoko). These are two dynamics that I have a lot of problems with and I feel weaken the characters involve. The first dynamic is widely disliked here because of how it strips away pretty much all the character from the stalker. Kazuichi and DR1 Toko are among the lesser popular characters from their games because their characters are reduced to "Master! Master! Master!" and "Sonia! Sonia! Sonia!" for the latter half of the game. It's bad writing altogether and throws away what we love about their characters all for a repetitive gag. I think Mahiru/Hiyoko's dynamic is really weak as well and I know many others who feel that their relationship taints their characters. The biggest problem I have with their dynamic is how Mahiru gives Hiyoko a free pass when it comes to bullying, but gets angry whenever others mock Hiyoko. It makes Mahiru come off as a complete hypocrite and spits on her motherly and strict personality. It makes Hiyoko and insufferable person(as usual) and highlights a big problem in her writing in that no one calls her out on her bullying in the game. And because Hiyoko died in Chapter 3, she couldn't carry on Mahiru's wish which puts their relationship to waste.

The reasons why I mention these two dynamics and their problems is because I feel that the writers did a good job at learning from their mistakes when writing Tenko and Himiko's relationship.

In Chapter 1 Tenko and Himiko are mainly background characters like everyone else as the chapter mainly characterizes Kaede and Shuichi. Their relationship is on the same lines as Toko/Byakuya and Kazuichi/Sonia. Tenko mainly praises Himiko a bunch and makes a couple of creepy and invasive comments which puts Himiko off. Nothing impressive to talk about.

Part 3 of 3

However, their relationship starts to become more serious beginning in Chapter 2. While Tenko still makes a couple of weird(albeit cute) remarks towards Himiko, Tenko gets clued on Himiko's struggles and starts to be more concerned for her. And by Himiko's struggles, I'm of course talking about her suppressing her emotions to try and survive the killing game. Himiko is one of most scared characters in the cast in the killing game(losing out to Kokichi) and to battle that fear and anxiety, Himiko has opted to hold back her emotions entirely. Himiko has chosen to suppress away her negative emotions at the expense of her positive emotions. In other words, Himiko is trying to survive through escapism, which is extremely damaging. Tenko, being the emotionally smart person she is, picks up on this.

"F-From experience...? Himiko, were you a victim of bullying in the past!? Is that why your heart is broken and you can't express real emotions anymore!?"

While Tenko is a little bit off the mark, Tenko has caught onto the fact that Himiko is holding back her emotions. However, things take a turn for the worse when Tenko finds out that Himiko has been brainwashed by Angie. Himiko has plunged herself further down into escapism and has now lost her free will. Tenko freaks out about this and begs Himiko to return back to normal. However, this only bothers Himiko and reminds her of the terrible reality that she is in which makes her push Tenko away even further, deeply upsetting Tenko

Later on in the chapter, we find out that Ryoma has been killed during Himiko's magic show. Not only this, but almost everyone, Angie included, has begun to suspect Himiko as being the killer. This would certainly be traumatic for Himiko, trying to live off in a fantasy only for her to be pulled back into the hardships and terrors of real life. Not everyone though as Tenko still continues to support and defend Himiko from suspicion, recognizing the good in her. Tenko has continued to stay on Himiko's side when everyone else was against her. This ultimately leads to one of her biggest character moments when she is arguing with Angie:

Tenko: "Ughhh... Angie, you spent more time with Himiko than any of us, so why are you accusing her?!"

Angie: "You may think you're protecting Himiko, but what if she really is the culprit? We'll all die, and it will be all your fault. Atua will lose precious devotees. Are you okay with that, Tenko?"

Tenko: "I'm totally fine with that! I don't care what anyone says! Himiko would never murder someone! That's what I believe more than anything!

Himiko: "......"

Tenko: "I want to believe in her, no matter what! If I can't do that, then I'd rather just die!"

This scene not only does a great job at conveying Tenko's supportive and protective side, but it's a big moment in her relationship with Himiko. Tenko's words completely caught Himiko off guard and has made her reevaluate her opinion on Tenko, realizing that she is a good person.

In the end Himiko gets proven innocent and Kirumi breaks her back harder than Keebo did in his FTE's.

Himiko and Tenko's relationship reaches its climax in Chapter 3. When exploring the new areas, Himiko has now begun to open up to Tenko with the two appearing together outside the school and walking with each other to Tenko's research lab. There Tenko ends up flipping Himiko and Shuichi to see their reactions. Tenko has mentioned a couple of times during the game that Aikido is not a physical challenge, but a mental challenge built around reflecting one's true self. Tenko flips the two and uses their reactions to discover their insecurities. For Shuichi, Tenko comments on his lack of confidence and that he doubts his abilities. For Himiko, Tenko brings to light Himiko's internal struggles and how she suppresses her emotions.

Tenko: "I see...It seems you are still too shy to show your emotions, Himiko. What a waste. You have the richest heart of all. You should do Neo-Aikido, Himiko! Training your body will help express your emotions!"

From this point on: Tenko has made it her goal to help Himiko overcome her emotional struggles.

Later in the chapter, Angie brings in Himiko and three other students to form the Student Council. Tenko decides it would be best to join the Angie's group in order to keep Himiko and safe and not do anything stupid. Even though Himiko has a stronger opinion of Tenko now, she still uses Angie and her god as a way to escape reality. On the night before Angie's ritual of Rantaro, Tenko asks Shuichi and Maki to help her reason with Angie to not do the ritual since she would be playing into Monokuma's hands. She even goes as far to bow to the two, which is pretty funny since Shuichi and Kaede were bowing to Miu to help do them a favor the same way Tenko is doing to them. Maki and Shuichi ultimately agree to Tenko's request and they travel to Angie's research lab to help talk her out of doing the ritual. Unfortunately Himiko walks in on Tenko's confrontation with Angie and finds out that Tenko is actually a mole. This is the next big moment for Tenko's character as she has now decided to set things straight with Himiko.

Tenko walked toward Himiko and gripped her firmly by the shoulders

Himiko: "Nyeh...?"

Tenko: "Please, snap out of it! Aren't you a mage?"

Himiko: "That hurts...let me go."

Tenko: "Himiko, why can't you see that you've been brainwashed? If you can't even see that, then... you're not a real mage at all!"

Himiko: "Wh-What?"

Tenko: "Feeling angry? If you are, then show it! Get mad! Get upset! Yell at me! Just fight back already! Do something!"

Himiko: "....."

Shuichi: "Tenko... let's just leave it be for now..."

Tenko: "...Ah!"

Himiko: "...."

Tenko: "I'm so sorry! I can't believe I just yelled at you!"

This is the tipping point in Tenko and Himiko's relationship. Tenko was no longer kissing up or going easy on Himiko, but instead telling her what she feels. The fact that Tenko insults Himiko's magic, something that could easily make Himiko push Tenko away again, shows that Tenko was no longer doing this out of self gain, but because she cares about Himiko's health and that she wanted to simply help her. Tenko wanted Himiko to get mad. Tenko wanted Himiko to lash out at her. Tenko was willing to potentially ruin their friendship just so that she can get Himiko out of her emotionally reserved shell. The scene is ugly and depressing, but it shows just how far Tenko is willing to go to support her friends because she is a compassionate person.

Tenko not only failed to convince Angie to change her mind about the ritual, but has left things with Himiko on a really sour note which makes Tenko feel awful. On their way back to the dorms, Tenko decides that she needs to apologize and make amends with Himiko as soon as she can. She decides that it would be best to do it straight from her heart.

The following day, tragedy occurs when Angie's body is discovered. The death of Angie leaves Himiko heartbroken, but is not able to show those emotions even when her only friend and person she could rely on has been murdered. Shinguji decides to hold a seance to communicate with Angie about her killer, which Himiko and Tenko agree to partake in. When Shinguji asks who wants to be the spirit medium Himiko volunteers, but Tenko steps in and gives Himiko a speech, which is my favorite moment in the entire game.

Himiko: "I can't think of anyone but me that Angie's spirit should go in."

Tenko: "No, I'll do it. Because if you're the spirit medium, you won't be able to talk to Angie."

Himiko: "Nyeh?"

Tenko: "You wanna talk to Angie, right? Then I'll be the spirit medium. That way, you can say goodbye to her. And after you've finished saying your goodbyes... Keep your chin up and live life facing forward! Survive with me and everyone else! .....Please."

Himiko: "...."

Tenko: "Also...Himiko, let me say this one thing. Expressing your feelings is perfectly natural. You shouldn't feel ashamed at all. So...if you feel like crying while you're talking to Angie, go ahead and cry your eyes out....you'll feel better when you do. Well I mean...laughing makes you feel better too... And venting your anger into something can really cheer you up! Train your heart by crying, laughing, and venting your anger, Himiko."

Himiko: "...I think you've trained too much.

Tenko: "Hahaha, you're probably right!"

This is my favorite moment in the whole game because of how well it wraps up Tenko/Himiko's friendship and Tenko's arc. It's a satisfying progression for Tenko during the early half of the game where she starts out being super obsessive with Himiko, but then learns and understands Himiko as a person. She then finally starts to help Himiko out and give her support and compassion when Himiko was scared and lonely. Himiko's little joke to Tenko and her response perfectly wraps up their arc with them becoming friends and I must say was one of the biggest highlights in the game. I am super glad that the writers didn't repeat the same mistake three times in a row with turning a character into nothing but a stalker for another character. Instead of producing a lame gag, the writers created a nice, touching, and heartfelt story between two girls becoming friends.

Unfortunately, Tenko ends up getting killed which absolutely crushes Himiko and loses her will to live. Thankfully, Shuichi gives Himiko the words she needed and overcomes her emotional suppression, vowing to carry Angie and Tenko's wishes and she does that by surviving the killing game with Shuichi and Maki.

While there are a couple of flaws in Tenko's writing, I still believe that Tenko was one of the best handled characters in the game. She has a compelling arc and friendship with Himiko as well as having an enjoyable and relatable personality to boot. I love you Tenko! You are a good girl!

Part of me wishes they saved Tenko's big "I'll die for you" moment in case 3 and it's treated more like an outburst, but then she decides to just go with it. At the very least, it'd fit nicely pacing wise and give the two more time, mostly because I thought Tenko, despite my gripes with her, was handled much better than Himiko ultimately was.

While I didn't mention it in my post, I do agree that they should have saved her sacrifice speech for a later chapter. It's the same gripe I have with Kaito defending Maki where the writers should have given us a bit more time to learn about their relationships before making that decision.

While I won't call Himiko the best written character in the series, I do think she was handled well enough. I think her arc of overcoming the suppression of her emotions was well paced and compelling in the first half of the game. And while her development kicked in a bit too quickly, I think Himiko served the role as the light hearted comic relief really well in the latter half.

i'm replaying v3 and am in the final stretch of the game and i'm surprised how much poppier himiko's character is at this point (and how often she bounces off tsumugi, which i hadn't remembered). the writers do good work integrating her with the core group after all her friends bite it.

Yeah, people say that Himiko doesn't have anyone to bounce off and I feel like that couldn't be anymore wrong. Himiko is one of the most dynamic characters from the cast and has unique interactions with the rest of the cast following Chapter 3.

I'm really glad you disproved Tenko's hatred of men from the get go. It really annoys me that so many people just assume that's her entire character and blindly ignore how kind and, as you said, emotionally intelligent she is just because she says "degenerate male" a few times. Thanks for reminding me just why Tenko is best girl.

No problem! Yeah it does kind of bug me when people say that all she does is trash men and be a creep to Himiko. It's a really small aspect of her character and there is a a lot of great stuff about her that people don't look into.

You're as enthusiastic about Tenko as I am about Tsumugi. Good 3-parter, I loved reading through it! Your analysis highlighted that Kodaka knew what he was doing with (most of) these characters, their psyche, and their relationships. I hope you'll join me when I do my (significantly shorter) Tsumugi or Kaede character analysis when the time comes.

Thanks for the comments!

I don't like Tsumugi overall, but I do see some good qualities in her character. And I love Kaede and have her as my favorite girl from V3 so I will back you up there!

Thank you for sharing your opinion on Tenko. She's my least favorite character, next to Kaede. I know I can learn to like both of them, and you've helped me understand Tenko better.

Tenko's last words to Himiko made it very obvious to me that she was about to die. I loved the tender moment between them though.

Well I'm glad that my analysis helped you reconsider your opinion on Tenko!

Something about Tenko's character that I've been thinking about a lot is that Tenko… is a little kid. I mean, everyone who knows Tenko knows that's she's childish, but that's not quite what I'm saying. I think Tenko is supposed to be interpreted as an actual kid. She may look like a grown up, but she is far far younger than she looks (at least mentally) and she has the mindset of a child. Along with the naivete, innocence, purity, and yes, stupidity of a child.

If you start seeing Tenko as a little kid, all of her behavior checks out. Just as an example, remember how Tenko tries to deflect suspicion from Himiko in the second trial? She doesn't make a logical argument, she doesn't try to come up with other theories, she doesn't have any rebuttals for the proof against Himiko. No, she tries to get through it by simply talking louder than Kokichi and interrupting him so he can't get any words in edgewise and thus, can't accuse Himiko. An incredibly childish way to win an argument.

Furthermore, I think pairing Tenko with Himiko was a very meaningful choice by the devs. Out of all the girls that Tenko could have been gay for, with some beautiful girls like Kirumi and Kaede around, the fact that Tenko falls for Himiko is quite telling. Remember the reason Tenko likes Himiko? It's not cause of physical attraction or even any personal connection. No, it's literally because Tenko thinks Himiko is a legit mage with legit magical powers and she thinks that's cool as balls.

(This, coupled with Tenko's FTEs and Love Hotel events, lead me to believe that she's not actually gay, loathe as I am to admit it. But I like wlw representation so I don't wanna talk about that rn, let's get back to the good stuff.)

I think a lot of people misconstrue Tenko/Himiko as some creepy jailbait nonsense, but that's not quite right. They're more like two little kids on the playground, and one of them really really wants to be friends with the other because she's super cool and knows magic! and the other is uninterested because all she cares about is magic. And Tenko is so singlemindedly obsessed with Himiko because she's a bouncy eager kid and kids can be singleminded about everything. I mean, look at Himiko, she's just as singlemindedly obsessed with magic. Tenko and Himiko are seen with each other and associated with each other so much, but their relationship is not like a Mahiru/Hiyoko situation where the one of them is the more mature one. Instead, they come off more as equals in maturity, as in they're both equally childish. Cause they're both kids.

Her comical facial expressions, her unbounding energy, her protective nature, her earnestness and lack of ulterior motives, her irrational man-hate, her expressiveness and powerful displays of emotion... it's all because Tenko is a dorky little kid with a really good heart and a really bad brain.

Tenko is stupid. She's naive and gullible and her whole man-hating shtick came into being because she's a dumbass who took her master's words entirely too literally. But she's a kid. She makes dumb mistakes that kids make. Thing is, a lot of people dislike Tenko for being stupid. But I think a big part of that is cause people take Tenko at face value and don't realize the disparity between her age and her appearance. And if you don't see Tenko as a child, you instead see her as a full-grown teenager and her behavior just becomes insufferable because oh my god, how is this girl still alive if she's this stupid.

I think this trait of hers was definitely lost in translation. If you see her in the JP game, her character reads differently. For one thing, she refers to herself in the third person. This is a speech pattern that, from my understanding, is reserved for characters who are either extremely childlike (Tenko), extremely quirky (Ibuki and Angie), or pretending to be extremely childlike or quirky (probably Angie). Also, her JP voice sells her childishness a lot. Tenko's JP voice sounds like what a golden retriever would sound like if it could talk. It's extremely goofy and dorky and overexaggerated. It more clearly shows that Tenko is supposed to be seen as a little doofus. In the localized version, her different speech pattern and Julie Ann Taylor's much more sharp and catty voice acting make it really easy to miss Tenko's childlike mentality.

Exacerbating the issue is Tenko's design. She's tall and has a nice body, so people read her character a completely different way. Now, DR has a history of vague ages and using age to hide plot points. The DR1 cast's weirdly developed bodies were hints that they were actually two years older than they thought they were, and DR2 used the difference between Hiyoko's apparent age and the photograph we see of her late-game to confuse the shit out of everyone. This is what leads me to believe that the discrepancy between Tenko's appearance and her behavior is intentional. The fact that this seemingly mature teenager acts like such a child is a hint to the fact that all of their personalities are fabricated, and implies that Tenko's character was written to be much younger than her real life "actress" is.

(A lot of discrepancies between the V3 cast's designs and characters can be explained by this btw. Why is the entomologist so buff? Why is the tennis player so short? Why is the geeky inventor so damn hot? Well, cause their personalities were artificially injected into them and the writers didn't have a lot of options, all they had was a handful of psychos who auditioned for a goddamn killing game. And if Tsumugi wants to write an entomologist, she's gonna write a fucking entomologist, and he's gonna be buff as fuck and raised by dino-wolves cause she's trying her best here okay.)

Also, while Tenko is really book dumb and even street dumb, she's also scarily emotionally savvy. She acts as a therapist to both Shuichi and Himiko and quickly gets to the root of their issues with a single sparring session. And after, she gives them sound advice to help them improve. She gives us a solid insight into Angie's mindset after infiltrating the student council, when she says that Angie can't be stopped because she genuinely doesn't see anything wrong with her actions. All of this makes me think that the concept behind Tenko's character was "dumb little kid who also has moments of shocking emotional intelligence and helps the other kids through their myriad issues."

IDK. This is just how I see and interpret Tenko. But I found that she became like 10x a better character once I started seeing her this way lol. I like how it feeds into the game's themes of lies and stuff. V3 is by far the DR entry that is the most vague about its characters' ages, and the concept of the characters having different physical and mental ages due to their false personalities is just really interesting to me. All in all, second fav V3 char, lov u lotso Tenko

Amazing interpretation but I don't feel that Tenko being childdish/child-like is incompatible with her being somewhat (totally in love) with Himiko.

Her FTEs with Kaede kind of make that clear, at least to me. Plus the Love Hotel thing is a dream scene, and apparently everyone wants to bang Shuichi in their dreams lol. I mean I've done worse in my dreams. Seriously lol.

That's true, there's really nothing that implies her feelings for Himiko aren't genuine. I just don't have a lot of faith in video game writers with lgbt representation I guess haha, they love to tease girl/girl relationships without actually making anything of them.

yeah, it's sort of more of a coding thing than any explicit acknowledgment that tenko likes girls. she never out and out says she loves women, but like... she's also depicted as super aggressive, man-hating, and pathetically obsessed with another woman. they couldn't go more out of their way to code her as queer, whether or not she's actually queer.

They would probably handle it with the subtlety of a crying infant in a tornado.

And by "They" I mean Tsumugi.

I like to think Tenko's gullible enough to her master to override bisexuality and go straight into lesbian territory as a silly headcanon, it just fits the childlike extremity in an absurd enough way that's somewhat hilarious, just the thought of her denying guys because of her master's words gets me.

Oh wow...this is honestly the most on-point on what Tenko is. She is just a child stuck in a mature body. Downright to being stuck in the boys are gross phase!

Not much to add to this other than I like this analysis. I know the main reason people dislike her is how predatory she comes across around Himiko at early points in the game, but seeing her as a kid who just thinks Himiko is the coolest kid in school turns what seems to be lust on the surface into something far more innocent as idolising a friend.

i liked how you put it. even tho this is great, i find it very weird that tenko can be as emotionally savvy without understanding herself or her surroundings. kids mostly don't show an inkling of understanding of helping others as they are self-centered but when they do they kinda use physical comfort or such. idk it's still very abnormal to me as you don't reach level 5 of emotional intelligence until you have cleared level 2.

It is odd, I agree. But Tenko is not a self-centered kid at all. She is one of the most helpful members of the cast (at least to girls). She is always one of the first ones to jump into danger to protect the rest of the group, alongside Kaito and Gonta. I think this, coupled with her weird Neo-Aikido mind-reading ability, is how she's able to be so understanding of others' feelings despite being so immature otherwise.

yeah, sorry if i wasn't clear, i understand that she's smart enough to pick up on things. what i meant was that generally people are unable to help those emotionally unless they understand those emotions or themselves properly, so her skipping to a stage where she's intuitive enough to pick up on other's problems but not understand herself or anything around her is odd to me, that's all.

It depends on the kid. I've actually met some children who are quite emotionally intelligent despite not having that intelligence in other areas.

definitely. children are intuitive and catch up on things others might not. i meant they didn't know how to perceive or deal with their own emotions, let alone help others do the same. but it's fine, i get that tenko is a special case.

You just made me really love Tenko, holy heck.

I honestly despised Tenko until I read this comment, and thought her gimmick was grating and obnoxious until I read your comment.

Now I'm not even sure what to think anymore...

[+11]Tenk u for sacrificing yourself to give us a meme...

i'll start with some positive points, because i do like tenko in a way that kind of snuck up on me. i didn't think much of her other than hey, vehicle for some semi-amusing comedy misandry, sure, whatever. but by the time she got sent to Sister, i was surprised at how bummed i was to see her go. she grew on me a lot.

i think that her triangular relationship with himiko and angie is very unique and probably the best in the game. dr in general doesn't actually focus much on female friendship; sakura/asahina and hiyoko/mahiru are the only other examples i can summon up from the main series (toko/komaru notwithstanding). i'm being very euphemistic in coding the tenko/himiko bond as 'friendship,' btw; i think you'd have to be willfully ignorant not to read something sapphic into it, at least from tenko's end, although i'm sure there are people ready to fight me to death on that point. but for the sake of the larger tenko/himiko/angie axis, let's call it a friendship. a frenemyship. with occasional benefits. whatever you call it, there was something about the structure and flow of it that i really enjoyed watching play out over the course of cases two and three.

i also give tenko a lot of credit for infiltrating the student council and calling upon shuichi and maki to help her make a move against angie. brave move and the most individual agency the character ever showed. in a better world, she joins the main trio as a fourth member; she probably has a lot more in common with them than she ever did with himiko (but alas, that clique was so crowded with degenerate males).

all of this said, as much as i enjoy tenko, i'd never accuse her of being a dynamic, deeply written character. speaking broadly, there's three types of danganronpa characters: those who only work as collections of anime tropes and can't really stand up to scrutiny as if they were real people, those who still avail heavily upon these same tropes but whose motivations and behaviours are mostly grounded in reality (kyoko is a good example here, or asahina or sakura), and then those who act as broad devices to spew the themes underpinning their games or serve as general heroic/antagonistic forces (cough cough nagito).

tenko, imo, is one of the first kind. you can't really approach her like you would a real person because she makes no sense in that context. a real person acting the way tenko does would seem deranged. her codependent obsession with himiko would be incredibly offputting -- and pathetic, given that himiko can barely hide her disdain for the girl. her willingness to put her life on the line for himiko over and over is desperate and smacks of cataclysmically low self-esteem.

but! if we accept tenko as the unrealistic, cheerfully devoted anime pseudo-stalker she is, obsessive but ultimately guileless, and know in our hearts that she exists as a human stepping stone to further himiko's character development, and that himiko will eventually come around to reciprocate the affection (though only after tenko has bitten it, long after the gesture has any meaning)... then sure, yeah, tenko's a blast. not a love from me, but a solid like. go tenko go.

Her FTEs were funny, but that's about it. Her obsession over Himiko was beyond creepy, and it made Himiko's sudden 180 on her come out of nowhere. Tenko was DROOLING over Himiko. DROOLING. Even when she mentioned going to the bathroom. That's just... really creepy.

She's a huge hypocrite, and she's never called out for it. I would've loved to see Himiko call Tenko out on her behavior and see her get taken down a notch. Maybe that would've allowed for her to shape up into a better character. But, alas. We just get "I love you Himiko love yourself okay now I'm dead." or whatever.

I like Tenko. In fact, she's my best V3 girl which may say something about my taste and my general opinion on the V3 girls (the boys definitely left more of an impact). However, like with a lot of my best girls, I have difficulty explaining why exactly I like her besides my weakness for moe and genki and have been raking my brains on why I ranked her so high. I guess this comment made by one of the voters for the Japanese popularity poll best describes why I like her:

Although she dislikes males, she always worries and cares about them, she has a tough personality but is also cute sometimes.

The moment I really started liking Tenko was when she tried being considerate towards Shuichi's feelings during the breakfast scene after Kaede's death, even reprimanding Kokichi for being insensitive. Despite all her talk against males, I felt that that scene and a few others showed that she still considered their feelings in a way and didn't hate males out of spite. Yes, her discrimination against males is pretty overbearing (even for me) and I understand if someone hated her just because of that. Maybe the writers wanted to differentiate her from Mahiru and make her misandry seem less of a tsundere trait? Personally, I do think her issues with males are an extension of the core personality traits that I like about her, in that she's earnest, gullible and loyal to a fault and surprisingly true to herself. While her backstory for it may seem weak on the surface, I think if you relate it with how impulsive and earnest she usually is, it does kind of make sense. She doesn't question her Master's claim that boys would weaken her Neo-Aikido skills because she had placed her absolute trust on him after all their training together. It's shown that she never really thought deeply of his claim during her FTE when Shuichi had to point out that her Master was a guy himself and she responded with shock to such an obvious revelation. Still, wish she didn't mention degenerate male in every conversation but I guess I'll have to accept it as her gimmick.

One thing that brought up my opinion of her was her role in Chapter 3 which I was genuinely invested in and gave me tons of conflicting emotions. I loved the scene in her research lab where she flipped Shuichi and gave him a mini-evaluation of his issues. And she made the scene better by flipping Himiko too, showing that what she did to Shuichi wasn't just a violent reaction towards a male but a gesture she would share even with her supposed crush. Then, she joined the Student Council along with Himiko. Although her act didn't really fool me, it did make me conflicted about her and I even sort of avoided her by not doing her FTEs even though she was next on my priority list (I actually wasn't even aware that you couldn't spend your FTE with the Student Council members when I was playing.). And then, suddenly she reveals that she was a mole the whole time and I felt somewhat relief. My girl wasn't exactly against us.

And this all led up to one of the most shocking deaths in V3 (at least to me). All the other deaths before had enough flags that indicated something bad was about to happen. I know that her conversation with Kokichi, her heartfelt talk with Himiko (which I felt was a great sent-off) and the whole atmosphere before the seance was basically spelling out her death flags to me but I disregarded them because of my expectations towards DR. I didn't expect a murder to happen during an investigation and I was devastated when it did, especially since the victim was one of my favorites and I didn't even get to start her FTEs because of petty reasons. Nevertheless, I felt that her death was one of the few instances in V3 which I liked because of the different direction it took compared to previous installments and made me wished there wasn't as many cop-outs in V3. Note: I was so engrossed in Tenko's death that I didn't even notice the meme potential of her SEESAW death until much later…how have I been so blind?

One thing that I'm pretty eh about besides her misguided discrimination would be her sudden interests in Himiko which could have used more build-up to it. I may not be remembering right but I don't recall any instance where they could have bonded to the extent that it led to her obsession, except maybe when we met them together during their introductions. Imo, I felt that they had more chemistry and positive interaction in the demo compared to main game where all we get was stalker-ish fascination on Tenko's part and disdain on Himiko's part. Another gripe I have would be her ‘rivalry' with Angie which I felt could use some more development and screentime because I thought it could be interesting to look deeper into. Instead, it feels pretty shallow imo, especially since the game doesn't stop hammering it to the players that the cult is bad and all. The narrative seems to paint Tenko as ‘better' friend for Himiko than Angie when being obsessed with another person should be regarded as equally unhealthy as being manipulative. But that could just be me. I guess, Tenko's obsession with Himiko may play into Tenko's earnest and impulsive personality. Tenko just doesn't second guess herself and the fact that Himiko appeals to her love for cute things may be enough for Tenko to cling to her and be jealous of Angie for gaining Himiko's attention.

Sometimes I do feel that Tenko doesn't deserve being my best girl because her bad points can be grating even for a fan like me…but honestly, I relate to Tenko quite a bit. She's cute and like her, I have a weakness for cute. I also like how she's emotional and honest to herself. Just look at some of her sprites. She just conveys so much emotion in her expressions. I liked that her UDTP events was mostly her hanging out with the girls and that one she had with Nekomaru was pretty heartfelt. Thinking of why I liked Tenko also made me realised that my opinions on characters and media are very much driven by my emotions and I guess I wouldn't have it any other way.

Btw, my other best girl candidates are Angie, Kaede and Himiko which shows that if you're not Kaede, the best way to impress me is to join a cult and not be Tsumugi.

Tenko's death shocked me too, I should of saw it coming, especially after her talk with Himiko but I really didn't think a murder would happen during the investigation and when I saw the blood coming out from the cage I was super shook

Another thing I'd like to add;

Thank god the localization took out her third-person trait. Considering Tenko already gets pretty annoying at times, I don't like to imagine how much worse it'd be if she keeps saying her name, on top of making it hard to take any of her smarter moments more seriously.

On top of that, Gonta and Angie are already characters who did it, so a third character who does the same would just be painfully redundant.

[S]In the end I found her reason for disliking males silly but very Danganronpa-like, and being a bit of a letdown for me.

Otherwise, I think she has one of the funnest sets of sprites for all characters!

Here's a fun fact: Tenko was dead last on my rankings pre-release. The description of her personality sounded like my worst nightmare when it comes to female characters, and I could just feel the oncoming victim backstory of how she was abused by a guy, but thankfully, that didn't happen, and even by the first chapter, she started to shoot up my rankings quite quickly. This didn't happen for everyone, obviously, but she still has a great part in my heart.

Tenko is not a complex character, and that's fine! Not every damn character has to have this massive-ass underlying depth to them, especially if they function in the main story just fine. Imo, she fits this role well. Some people argue that she was wasted, but I found her a fairly large part of chapters 2-3, especially since she takes a pretty big role in the dynamic with Angie and Yumeno.

So, more on that, but she really is a dim bulb. Like, really, she comes off as ridiculously dumb, or at the very least, extremely gullible and naive. However, she isn't relegated to just a comedic relief role because of this, and this is one of the reasons I like her (and Yumeno) a lot. She has an extremely special charm with how straightforward she is with her emotions. She's extremely dramatic, impulsive, doesn't think objectively at all, and genuine in how she feels. Not only that, but she values emotion to the point of it being incorporated in her mindset as well, as exemplified in her interactions with Yumeno. Even her man-hating isn't completely immune to her more caring side, with how she sometimes expresses sympathy for Saihara, a notable example being in the Chapter 1 post-trial.

Lots of people have compared her to Souda, and while I agree with that to some level, it's still sort of a superficial comparison. Their attachments are both fairly shallow, but Souda's doesn't serve any purpose in the story. As I mentioned in another thread, it's basically a walking cuck joke, and there's nothing especially genuine about his care for Sonia. He doesn't push her any direction, or actually has any meaningful interaction with her. He simply just follows her around like a puppy the whole game because she's hot. Tenko, on the other hand, is kind of a freak herself. This isn't just a trait of her interactions with Yumeno, but how she talks to almost everyone. She lacks a lot of tact, especially since she's incredibly hyper-active. Her attachment to Yumeno comes off creepy at points, but there is a sense of care for her that comes out in several interactions where she pushes her to stop concealing her emotions. I actually find Yumeno and Tenko's relationship quite interesting due to the fact that they're basically opposites. Yumeno hides what she's feeling, Tenko just lets it all out. It's cool.

Speaking of which, another way in which Tenko fills Souda's position better is her rivalry with Angie. Granted, this might be more because of Angie's writing than Tenko's writing, but the fact that Angie is honestly somewhat of a threat/manipulator compared to Gundam makes her actions in Chapter 2 and 3 a lot more reasonable. Actually, I think giving Tenko's strongest rivalry to another girl is a pretty great writing decision, because it distracts from her schtich of ragging on the men. Her booing Angie in Chapter 2 was absolutely hysterical, and I think this dynamic is why she happens to shine so much in Chapter 3.

Also, can I say that her Neo Aikido talent was incorporated really well into her character? Like, Aikido has lots of roots in self-improvement, which is one of Tenko's driving beliefs. Hell, as someone who played the game in Japanese, you can just feel how the talent as affected her character in her ridiculously polite speech pattern. The way it's brought up in her FTEs is cute too, with her wanting to become some sort of superhero and all.

Overall, I think she's a solid character. Not one of the best in the series, but one that serves her role in the plot. I get why people find her annoying, but that doesn't necessarily make her poorly written. Overall, I love my freaky hyperactive Aikido wife. <3

It's a shame though, some of her sprites are really fucking ugly. Like girl.

Some characters age like a fine wine. You have some impression of them after the game ends, and the more you think about them, the more your opinion improves. Kaito is a good example of this

Tenko is not one of these characters. She ages like spoiled milk on a hot summer day. And while the milk did taste good at one point, it's probably best if you throw that shit out and as far away as possible to not deal with the smell

…the analogy has run away from me. But the main point is, Tenko is not that great. Pre-release, she was easily my favorite character. I thought her talent kicked ass and she had a great design to go with it. Hell, I still think she has the best sprite work in the game (except maybe a certain someone else…) and that alone makes her worth something entertaining. I like how V3 isn't afraid to make these characters look just disgusting at points

Anyway, I found Tenko in Chapters 1 and 2 to be mostly annoying. I actually liked her a bit in Chapter 3, and saw her as a nice girl who wanted to help her friends. While pushy on Himiko, Himiko was definitely had a very bad mindset towards life. She also gets some good last words

I also like how her relationship with Himiko is portrayed, in that Himiko did care about Tenko but didn't really show it. A lot of people didn't buy it but I saw Tenko/Himiko as more of a mom/daughter relationship. Himiko might've thought Tenko was annoying, but of course you'll be sad if your mom dies

So there are good parts to Tenko I like, but then the game goes on and you realize she's not really that significant and she's kind of just like Mahiru in a way

But god is she annoying in Chapters 1 and 2. I literally don't mind the degenerate males at all and pre-release I thought it'd be a cute quirk that had funny situations. But it's the dumbest joke ever with no punchline. "Degenerate males!" That's it. That's the joke. It's not that Tenko hates boys that makes her intolerable, it's the complete lack of creativity or nuance. It's not funny.

When I first did her FTEs, I actually liked that she didn't have a deep backstory for her hating males. But like I said, spoiled milk. This is a character that needed a backstory to justify this flatout strange and stupid behavior. Doesn't need to be a sob story, but anything. As it is, it's just a tacked on character trait since the devs probably felt that Tenko didn't have enough of a personality I guess, so they just gave her something

Tenko's not a mess, and her character is consistent, but the character consistency is just being brash, stupid, and hating men

There are some parts I think back about to Tenko and still like admittedly, but she's really just a poorly executed character who didn't have a snowball's chance in hell of surviving the game. Next

she's kind of just like Mahiru in a way

They're completely different though?

Has strong opinions of men, stands up for the little girl and kick-starts her development, has a rebuttal showdown the chapter before she's killed, ends up being a victim during which a big turning point of the trial is that she was killed instantly

/u/TsundereKermit
 said more but you can't claim they're "completely different." They're as comparable as you can get for DR characters

Has strong opinions of men

Have you even checked out their interaction in the TDP mode? Mahiru expects a lot out of men because of her lazy bum of a father, Tenko just outright hates them. Mahiru has a more calm and motherly type of personality while, like many people here remarked, Tenko's personality is more like that of a naive child. Mahiru's relationship with Hiyoko happened during one chapter, in which she behaved more like Hiyoko's older sister, while Tenko behaved largely like some kind of beta orbiter of Himiko until nearly the end.

They're different. A few similarities regarding circumstances behind their death in their respective killing games and what they ended up doing before dying isn't going to change the fact that as characters, they're different from one another, which is what I meant. At most you should've clarified that they had a similar function in the story they were part in and you didn't do that.

I think they meant that they had a lot of potential to grow, but got killed off early.

Even so Tenko ended up accomplishing what she set out to do in V3, Mahiru just got unceremoniously killed (counting only DR2).

I feel that Tenko got one of the best send offs in the series though. Her arc came to a fitting end when she finally made amends with Himiko.

I agree that she got a good sendoff, I can't lie to myself and say that I wish we saw more of her.

Ah yes, the meme victim's time to shine!

Tenko's a character who will drive you insane if you try and take her too seriously before her moment right before her death where she's actually not just an obsessive Himiko-fan what a shame too since Himiko's the fucking worst

Hates males for degenerate behavior? She and Miu are the most like degenerates in the manner of harassing those around them in terms of relationship. Before her there's only female murderers and starting with her it's men if you don't count Tsumugi as she didn't kill besides Rantaro. She's easily the most physically aggressive in the game and way too eager to deck someone.

My point is, it feels like Tenko is explicitly made to look out like a gullible idiot on purpose, and with that trying to take her as a serious character and nothing but that will lead to insanity. This doesn't mean I exactly like that, but it does make me tolerate her in smaller doses.

I don't mind Tenko's man hating schtick the most, and tbh I don't mind her backstory that much given that DR has had crazier and it's at least different than "I/someone I'm close to was assaulted/raped" so I'll give kudos for unpredictability and not going for the easy route, plus in a series as absurd as this one the joke actually did get a small laugh out of me for a minute or two. Overall her backstory is surprisingly servicable, but hey free times aren't everything and they're honestly overvalued a lot by people, onto her actions in the main game

I hate the Tenko/Himiko thing, mostly because I hate Himiko but also because Tenko's death in the double murder was forced on to spur Himiko into actually trying to change from v3's least useful character into something and also for all the sweet glorious seesaw memes.

Like I said, Tenko was a gag character and it's easier to take her like that for what we got, but she didn't really come into her own that much except for the bonus content. It was nice to see her clash with Angie and not be just "only men are so horrible!" but besides that there wasn't too much because she was all "Himiko Himiko you're so great even though you don't do anything until I die" and even though I'm fine with some characters being taken less seriously in the stories than others, one thing that undoubtedly should've changed is to get rid of the obligatory one-sided relationship that's in every game.

I can tolerate the rest of Tenko but by making her essentially the gateway for Himiko to stop being lazy, it tosses out moments for herself as she's used so much time to just build that up. It's honestly wasted potential because she still could've had her own moments as shown when she wanted to go against Angie and come into her own from childish energy ball.

Tenko can be fun in small doses but overall leaves me empty with a bit of a "why did they do that for her?" feeling that I can't explain any deeper. Despite that she's still about mid-tier for me in v3 characters, like always there are hints of a great character and if she was taken more seriously (at least in the main story, keep her silly here and there and in bonus content all they want) instead of just Himiko's stalker as the student council thing went nowhere, Tenko could've bloomed but she was given the short end of the stick as her progression was just not taken that seriously and it's a shame given what we got out of her death instead as I really never cared for Himiko post-progression either but that's a story to save up for her own discussion.

Also her only ship belongs with Mikan and every other choice is wrong js like I'm usually against counting extra bonus content (literally everything other than the main story) as too important as I feel this fandom really overvalues that sometimes but this is my one exception as that TDP event gave me life

I really didn't like Tenko before V3 came out, but when i did her FTEs she became one of the most entertaining characters this game had to offer, besides Miu that is, i liked her last words to Himiko before she got seesaw'ed, even if her degenerate male schitick was annoying, she never greeted Shuichi with hostility and she cared about the guys.

Also on an unrelated note, Tenko X Rantaro is best ship

I love Tenko a LOT. I think she sticks out in a cast of some the craziest personalities and designs of the whole series. I mean explanation IRL is that Spike Chunsoft is literally just throwing things at you because they are pretty far into the series...and well....Crazy ninja woman with too much hair decorations, man-hating, potential (probably) lesbian, child-like character! BOOM! And I love how there's an-universe explanation too (Tsumugi's a normie hating shitlord who writes her characters with all of the grace of a 6 years old).

Tenko's death is the one that affected me the most in the entire series. Not that I did not see it coming. I mean as soon as the seance was being set up, you know. I mean, I didn't want it to happen at all.

Her main point of being in the game is for sure, building up Himiko's own arc while she is being set-up as a survivor. But before checking out, Tenko brings us two things fairly original to the series. First off is, of course, her attraction to Himiko. For which your mileage may vary but IMO I found it absolutely cute and endearing. It offered a different kind of romance dynamic, because it led to the secondary thing that's just as good. And that's actual, developed female friendship. DR2 flirted with that in Chapter 2 but it was just for fanservice, and was used as set-up for the murder. But here from Chapter 1 through 3, we have this fully developed little group of girl friends albeit with some of this development being walled off via bonus scenes. V3's cast has this common dynamic of teaming up characters as friends, independent of the other groups of friends, and I like that a lot about it. I knew I really liked Tenko when I was crushed at her joining Angie's cult. I didn't want their friendship to have been based only on brainwashing. I legit fistpumped when she revealed she wasn't and was only looking out for Himiko.

I fully bought Tenko's devotion for Himiko. I mean I've had crushes on girls before where I would have totally cut a finger off for them after only knowing them for a day. It's how crushes work. And at the time I wasn't stuck in a crazy murder death game, where establishing human connections ASAP to not go insane is kinda important. Plus...it's a universe where people can casually be blown away by mechanical murder bears and be brought back as robots. And the stretch is Tenko really liking Himiko? Nyeh! That's nitpicking let's be honest.

I've already waxed poetic many times about how V3-3 is REALLY underrated but this is neither here nor there. This is Tenko Chabashira's time to shine baby!

What I like about her character development is that unlike her fellow Chapter 3 victims across the series, she (along with Angie) feels like a lesser waste of a character. Tenko's arc is pretty much done by the time the chapter is over and while she was pretty great in terms of personality and cast interactions, at the very least the remaining cast has less overall nothingburgers vs 1 and 2 after their respective Chapter 3 (RIP Taka and Ibuki, and Hiyoko and Mikan, and Celeste) so the apparent "waste" of her death wasn't as well...bad.

Owner of the single best sprite in the entire series. You know which one.

Also the owner of the most frustrating death in the entire series. I'm hesitant to say "pointless" as it does build to Himiko's character development, but it sure as hell was unnecessary as Himiko could have achieved the same development without Tenko's death.

I wager the reason it angers me the most is because it was OBVIOUS that she was going to die (hell, it was obvious someone was going to die as soon as you saw what was being used for the seance) so as a player you're forced to just stand there and wait for one of the friendliest characters in the game (which is quite impressive considering her main gag is that she claims to hate half of the group for a superficial reason) to just die in front of you and there's nothing you can do to stop it.

Very much like Kiyotaka and to a lesser extent Saionji, Tenko just feels like a character who was just starting to get going in her character development who was wasted on a stupid double murder chapter (Made worse as the exact same can be said for Angie this time too). Yes, V3's Chapter 3 is far better than DR1 and DR2's but I think I would have been more impressed if they had managed to make it worse seeing as the bar was so low.

ALL THE SAME (and this is where it completely drifts away from being about Tenko and is probably something I should be saving for her killers thread), the stupid seesaw meme is kind of masking the fact that Chapter 3 is STILL the worst chapter of the game. Three characters die in a moment which feels like a filler arc added just to thin the herd rather than advance the overarching plot, plus this time they also kill the only Monokub people actually like. The execution is the weakest in the game as are the blackened's motivations. V3 is arguably WORSE than DR1 and 2 in some regards because this time they actually dangle a whole ton of game-changing plot twists in front of you (Two murderers, revived classmates, a mutiny against Monokuma, a cult like council taking over, killing the rival character mid-game) and NONE OF IT HAPPENS. It's frustrating. It's just one person with a stupidly elaborate plan that only they could do killing two people because Chapter 3 demands it. There were just so many ways they could have made Chapter 3 interesting this time but they went with none of them. Argh, I'm still mad!

But to actually end this on Tenko: Favourite design in the game and a personality that is abrasive but when you get to know her it turns out she's actually one of the most pure-hearted people in the game (Even if "True Tenko" seems to be far more cowardly based upon the Prologue). Her belief and friendship with Himiko in Chapter 2 was one of the big reasons why I actually started to hate Angie, so when we get to Angie and I tell you she's the worst girl, remember it's mainly because I was on #TeamTenko. There were few people you could rely on in the V3 cast, but Tenko for sure was one of them. I'll be in the distant minority here, but if I could save any one dead character in V3 to be stood there with the other three survivors, it would be her.

I agree with a lot here except for V3-3 being the worst chapter. I still think that's V3-4 but I usually don't like the fourth chapter as much in all games (1 gets saved by the Aoi twist).

But seriously reading your analysis and I was like "My God, this franchise wastes potential all across the board, all the time!" But I already knew that. So I'll also disagree with V3 being arguably worse with dangling plots. Because seriously 1 and 2 are just as bad. It's a freaking series that I adore (right now if you asked me my favorite gaming franchise and I'd yell Danganronpa) but Jesus Christ, it's a clusterfuck of wasted plot points and terrible writing.

DRP1 has Genocide Jack, a literal serial killer that everyone immediately...does nothing to and leaves free. For no reason. The serial killer part then never becomes an actual plot point ever. Kyoko suddenly becomes an ice queen because Makoto dared to do what she's doing to him that very moment. Being secretive. The 16th student ends up being a literal fridged character since chapter 1. Byakuya never evolves beyond "I am better than you" and Hagakure is there. Oh and Aoi tried to kill everyone but hey!

2 has Peko, an amazing character with an interesting link to Fuyuhiko that could have changed the dynamics of the cast but gets fridged chapter 2. Ibuki dies in chapter 3 and she's one of the most interesting characters in the entire series, a genki girl with surprising depth in her FTEs but she gets snipped while nothingburgers Akane and Soda live. Mikan's entire backstory has 0 real relevance to her motive which is explained away via Chekhov's virus. Hiyoko's growth after Mahiru's death is thrown away like a cheap broken doll to leave place for....well the nothingburgers. And that's not to say nothing of chapter 4, where Robot Nidai gets killed in a messed up plot, that was obviously thought of before the chapter was written, so it has to take place in a weird setting that ends up being that way, just to justify the elevator murder. Funhouse my ass. It's amazing at first, and then you realize it's built that way just so the murder could happen. Which ends up feeling artificial and videogamey as fuck. And other than the clock, never justifies the robot plot and wastes it.

Tenko's death is telegraphed from a mile away and is also a cheap murder, that only exist in a chapter that is also written around making the murder happen, rather than have it feel actually justified. They went SEESAW! long before they thought about the "Seance" which ends up being a creepy...but cheap as hell way to snuff a character out. And what of Maki a character whose growth is the focus of chapter 3 through 6, suddenly becoming a completely useless, weakling without a purpose? She brings nothing to trial 6. Oh and she tried to kill everyone but hey! And as much as I love Shuichi and think he's the best of the protags...hey look, it's the fridged woman again. For the third game in a row! They could have pulled that twist off, without having yet another character grow from a girl dying lol. Like he takes over because he's growing stronger I dunno.

Seriously I LOVE this franchise but it's kind of a lot of bad writing I have to forgive haha. Oh well I do lol.

The execution is the weakest in the game

Fite me IRL, 1v1

It starts out fine, but there's near zero impact at the end like the rest have. The first two have brutal endings, as does the fourth that leaves you "feeling despair". The fifth has a more emotional ending than the rest for narrative reasons. Sixth is the explosive finale (though I can see people being disappointing by the masterminds death).

Third? It starts out promising and does have a horrific moment of him melting in a pot (which I feel isn't all that clear that he's actually melting and not boiling). But after that? The latter half of it is a robot suicide, incest ghosts, salt thrown over a ghost boy to comically double kill him, and then Monokuma chilling out on the roof with a sexy ghost. It's just a far sillier ending than all the others have and so the feeling at the end of it compared to the rest is lacking. Silliness is fine in the executions (The second one has an angry mob waving signs about at the start) but I think the best ones only have it on the build-up, not the finale.

Still, while I think it's the weakest in V3, it's still better than most of the offerings from 1 and 2.

(This is also not even about Tenko anymore lol)

Nah, it's okay If you think like that. I personally loved it but that may be because the music is the best and fits the entire thing very well.

Tenko was a pain in the ass for me. She only has three facets to her personality: her hatred for degenerate males, her creepy one-sided crush on Himiko, and her sweetness, which doesn't come up nearly enough. If you just toned down one or both of the negatives or made her sweetness more apparent before she got seesawed by Necro Wincest, I probably would have cared about her more.

Tenko's a character I never expected to like, but ended up being my favorite V3 character. I can see why people wouldn't like her, with the whole degenerate male thing, and in all honesty, if you asked me why I liked her during my first playthrough I wouldn't be able give a straight answer as well, other than the fact I find her to be really cute. Oh, and the fact she has my favorite sprites in the game.

I think part of the reason I like her comes from the fact she's in V3. In a game based around truth and lies, where basically every characters lies or puts on a front, including both protagonists, Tenko forms a (figurative and literal) bright contrast against everyone else, with the way she clearly expresses whatever is on her mind. If Kokichi embodies lying the most, I'd say that of all the characters in the game, Tenko embodies absolute honesty the most, since her feelings are the most transparent. That ended up feeling really refreshing to me.

Some people may dislike the degenerate male thing (and her obsession with Himiko, to a lesser extent), but I'd say it was neccessary to establish her character. If you completely remove these bits and leave in the nice and encouraging bits, I feel like it would make her character feel less genuine and take away from what makes her character. We get the sense that she is more than okay with expressing her dislike of others with the degenerate male thing, so when she does things like shout at Kirumi to escape or try to cheer up Shuichi, it feels like it's because she genuinely feels the need to do so from the bottom of her heart instead of being nice for the sake of being nice.

As it is, with her shown to be incapable of faking emotions, her personality kind of reminds me of that of an easily excitable puppy, barking and growling at people she sees as threats, but ultimately loyal, affectionate, wanting to protect others andloveable.

Ultimately though, she dies pretty early on. My personal interpretation is that, in a game based around truth and lies, this could almost be commentary that her childlike honesty and belief in others unfortunately just wouldn't really work out in real life and would set her up to fall (especially since Gonta, the next best person to represent these concepts, dies soon after from being manipulated by Kokichi, who represents lies). Might be too much of a stretch, but I like this interpretation anyways, especially since her honesty and tendency to express whatever is on her mind also directly lead into the parts of her that would be seen as offputting in real life (the insults towards men, and making Himiko uncomfortable).

"Degenerate Male" is one of those running gags that starts out as mildly amusing, gets grating a few hours in, and by the time you're done with the game it's somehow crossed over into being hilarious.

If there's one word that I feel describes Tenko pretty well, it's childish. Her values, her background, her temperament, even her primary character traits are rooted in immaturity, but I just want to clarify that immature doesn't at all equate to idiocy or anything like that, more naivety.

As well as her tendency to completely wear her heart on her sleeve, which is a thing that very few other characters in this game's cast do, and even the ones that are honest about and with themselves would say they don't quite match up to Tenko's level of sincerity. She is 100% honest about her misplaced hatred of males, 100% honest about her admiration and affection for Himiko, and 100% honest about her passion for Neo-Aikido. She does not at all mince words on any of these, and I think that's where Tenko's charm lies, although her sheer forwardness does have drawbacks, such as Himiko being clearly uncomfortable a number of times, and generally being unable to deal with Tenko's energy, although eventually it does start to rub off on Himiko a little bit. She's someone who can't help but be honest about who she is, down to the letter, and the one time she does lie (pretending to be on the side of the student council), she's pretty unconvincing, which puts her at odds with most of the characters that do lie, either to themselves or others. In a game that explores the nature of truth and lies, and where most of the cast obfuscates something about themselves, whether it be their talent, their feelings, their crimes, their entire character, it's nice to have someone who is just absolutely gung-ho about who they are.

Her sincerity also means she's extremely empathic and easily swayed by her emotions, sympathizing with all of the victims and killers, even the ones that are male, and lets her get a very good read on people's feelings and can really understand what makes them tick, sort of like Kaito in a way, but only if she throws them on the ground first. Even her dislike of males, it doesn't stop her from understanding Shuichi's problems and giving him very well-meaning advice, and she even feels bad enough about knocking him unconscious in her first FTE that she carries him back to her room.

Her childish hatred of males also stems from her rather naïve personality, taking all the lessons given to her by her master completely at face value (whether her master was giving her genuine advice that she took the wrong way or he was very intentionally messing with her is possibly up to interpretation, but the end result is the same). Her misandry is probably her most stubborn characteristic. Even when completing her free-time events and Shuichi does manage to form a real bond with her, she doesn't budge on her contempt of males nearly as much as you would think, starting at "men are cancer" and ending on "98% of men are cancer" which is an amusing subversion.

Even her love of Himiko, which is clearly partly romantic and sexual in nature, but is also in part due to her admiration of performers and idols and desire to be like them, which fits into her personality. Her relationship with Himiko is an interesting one too, because it's clearly setting up for the same "close two-girl friendship" the previous two games have had, but Tenko is just so incredibly insistent on it that all it does is turn Himiko away. Only when Tenko is able to tone down the obsessiveness and show that she really does care for Himiko, even at one point getting angry at her just to snap Himiko out of her funk, is the latter able to start appreciating her.

I think the relationship they have is really cute, even if I don't really ship them. Tenko's expressiveness and Himiko's much more reserved and slightly irritable personality do go well together. I would go over more on Himiko's side of things and explain her great development over the course of the game, but that's for a later discussion.

Overall, Tenko isn't among the most interesting of characters, but that doesn't stop her from having a bright and likable personality. Sure she's simplistic, but she ain't giving a crap what you think.

And yes, it is unfortunate that Tenko dies before any chance at development, but when taking the structure of the Danganronpa games into account, that's just a natural consequence. It's happened in 1 and 2, so it didn't really disappoint me that not everyone received equal development.

Besides, given her personality, I can't really imagine Tenko really changing herself in any meaningful way. She is who she is, and nothing's gonna change that.

yeah, to the last point: i don't know that tenko is capable of any great change. the only things i can imagine are her learning boundaries or self-esteem re: her slavish devotion to himiko, but that was never her arc. the game always wanted us to see her dynamic with himiko as earnest and loving rather than aggressive and delusional; himiko predictably comes around on her upon her death, vindicating her instantly.

she also can't move much on her 'degenerate males' tic because her FTEs and the main game need to be consistent; you can't have tenko coming to jesus about #notallmen in the main game and railing about degenerates during free time.

in any case, i agree that it's fine that tenko remains static throughout. not everyone needs an arc.

but I just want to clarify that immature doesn't at all equate to idiocy or anything like that, more naivety.

That would be true but the reason Tenko even is immature is because she's the biggest idiot of the series. A complete idiot without any interpretation skills or any notion about anything whatsoever. Even her precious martial art is made up for the sake of guiding her to being a better person.

Calling Tenko "naive" just comes across as covering up for the fact that absolutely nothing Tenko does has any thought behind it and it's all just spur of the moment shit based on pure instinct molded by lies. She is pretty stupid. And thus, i don't think she can ever be good, and everything she does, you can trace it back to her being a stupid person.

you can be good-hearted and still be stupid. gonta's a fucking moron but i don't think anyone would argue he's basically a nice person (or maybe someone would, tbf, have at 'er).

"good" as in "good character"
But even then, Tenko was a unbearable devil when she was a child so they sent her to a temple in the hopes she'd calm down, then story happened and Neo Aikido was made up and there's a bunch of rules to help her be a good person. The only reason Tenko even, just barely, functions as a human is because her master manipulated her into believing certain things because Tenko's idiocy is on such a high level that usual teachings don't work on her. I can't help but notice even the "best" aspects of Tenko are just another byproduct of her being a moron. She has 0 depth whatsoever, and will never get better.

Gonta's dumb but at least i feel his good nature is separate from his lack of intelligence, with Tenko, everything she does comes from her being too stupid to do anything else

fair enough. i'd argue that tenko's got some latent emotional intelligence that makes itself known in chapter three when she's variously counselling both shuichi and himiko, but you could just as easily argue that her possessiveness of himiko comes from a selfish/harmful place. i'm pretty agnostic on the subject.

but you could just as easily argue that her possessiveness of himiko comes from a selfish/harmful place.

My view on that is "she cute, gotta friend" or something similarly simple. She can like idols or performers but even then she just leaps into an obsession way too quickly. Tenko exaggerates all of the things, her master tells her men are pervs?All men are cancer. Neo Aikido will help you channel your anger?Now it's my entire lifestyle. Himiko is cute?I shall pursue her to the end of the world.
This, of course, because she has no notion of subtlety and has way too intense emotions and isn't self-aware enough to know when to slow the fuck down. In other words, because she's dumb. This is why i can't buy into her relationship with Himiko, because it comes from Tenko being dumb. I was on Himiko's side the entire time, get away from her you obsessive creep!

I guess it's kinda just frustrating.

Tenko is an interesting character, one who was controversial even before the game came out. People already who disliked Mahiru often did because of the lines that suggested she disliked men, so making a character who ran even further with that was a bold choice. Did they do well? That's kind of something you need to decide for yourself, but I think so.

Tenko's background kind of highlights something I like about the V3 cast: They actually feel like high school students. In previous games, the accomplishments and experiences of the characters made them feel a bit like adults with work experience that happened to be in high school during the game, many of them having real work experience and almost an existing career that Hope's peak seemingly interrupted. Tenko is just a somewhat sheltered girl who follows her master's advice with reverence to the point of blindness. She never had a real reason for her hatred of men, her master just wanted to keep her out of trouble and told her to stay away from boys because they might try to take advantage of her, and she went the extra mile with it because she wants to be the best Neo-Aikido master she can be.

She's so intent on it that she even ignores the fact that her master is himself male, which doesn't make her drop her degenerate male statements but it does suggest she might have tried to be less heavy handed about it in the future once she came to the revelation... This also stands out in my opinion, because in the past characters like Mahiru and Fuyuhiko seemed to recognize when they're doing somewhat dickish things that such things are abnormal and seem to have a good idea of why they're doing it, dropping the pretense after they either get comfortable with the protagonist or the reason they were acting out is no longer relevant. It ends up looking to some fans like characters are just being "redeemed" overnight, and gives the false impression that any character could be redeemed for longstanding flaws in their actions or worldview within the course of the game, while in real life those kinds of changes often take a lot of time and effort to fix. It's part of why I think the idea that Hiyoko would've been turned into a perfect sweetheart if she'd had the rest of the game is pretty unlikely.

In Tenko's case, she literally saw nothing wrong with her behavior up until Shuichi brings up that her master was a man as well... But "degenerate male" is practically a verbal tic for Tenko, and as I said those kinds of changes take time, so even if she started to recognize value in her male companions it's likely she would've continued saying it up until the last chapter... It might seem hypocritical for me to praise that here when I criticized Maki for basically the same thing last week, but Maki went two chapters without doing her "You wanna die?" catchphrase, so she clearly has a better handle on it than Tenko.

Tenko's relationship with Himiko is... awkward. She is a bit creepy in her obsession with the girl, and up until the third chapter where Tenko gets See-sawed, Himiko seems to be very uncomfortable with her advances. Some people take her actions toward Himiko as a sign that Tenko's a lesbian, but suggesting she has a raw romantic/sexual interest in her just makes her seem creepy. I'm not going to try to discredit that interpretation, and there's not much evidence against it either (assuming you don't count the little bit of ship tease she has with Shuichi), but I'd say a better explanation is that she's not very experienced with having friends and doesn't know what's appropriate. While it feels to us like she's forcing herself onto Himiko, it could easily be that Himiko is actually being friendly with her when we don't see and she's just weirded out by the way Tenko acts in front of everyone. It may even be that Himiko is more worldly than Tenko and realizes just how creepy she seems to everyone else, and her reactions are to that, but that interpretation is almost entirely speculation.

When Tenko joins the student council it's pretty obvious she's not there for Atua or out of any loyalty to Angie. Honestly, I suspect Angie was well aware of that, but decided that either she didn't care why Tenko joined as long as she was in it for the long haul (which she probably would've been so long as Himiko was in the council), or thought it would be better for Himiko to have her friend in the council even if she wasn't necessarily devoted to the job. I don't want to unpack Angie all the way now, even if her analysis is... 14 weeks away... Okay, you know what, I'll put this part in now because there's no way I'll remember that long: It makes good sense for Angie to let her stay, it's one person on her side versus someone who would likely be trying to undermine her if she refused. She didn't really need everyone to be loyal Atuans, just to have enough of the class on her side that they were able to prevent any further murders, and given that Shuichi was pretty much trusted by everyone she did have a slight majority of people she could consider safe instead of having less than half of the group on her side.

And then there's Tenko's death. Chapter 3 in every game is notorious for having at least one of the victims die for no good reason, and V3 is no exception. There was no coherent reason for Korekiyo to do the seesaw thing to begin with, and Tenko's death from it can easily be seen as less legitimate as a result. Obviously it's a game, and the chapter NEEDS to be solvable, and the dangan formula wouldn't fit right if they didn't have two victims on the third case, but that doesn't make the logic of the killer any more sensible... Dammit, I'm doing it again... Gotta save the rest of this rant for Korekiyo's analysis, even if it is a long ways away. Angie's death could be argued as necessary since her cult had a non-negligible chance of ending the killing game, and for things to go on she had to die, but Tenko's death didn't really serve any purpose but to rub more salt in poor Himiko's wounds when she had literally just lost one of her best friends minutes before. The only possible explanation... Aha! I've got it!

Praise Tenko! She died for our memes!

Tenko is the most "lol, who?" character in the game, maybe the whole series and the sad reason is because Kodaka can't get it out of his head that having characters who revolve around one character and don't develop on their own is a terrible idea and nobody likes them. She literally exists to further Himiko's (dull and pointless) character arc, and as someone who doesn't give a flying fuck about Himiko, you can guess how I feel about that.

Her relationship with Himiko in general makes me roll my eyes because it's another attempt at re-creating the Mondo/Taka dynamic, just like with Mahiru and Hiyoko, but it falls flatter than even they did. While I applaud the attempt at actually showing a dynamic rather than just telling me how great a friend Tenko is, the problem is that Kodaka remembered he hadn't filled his "lol, stalking" joke quota that was universally panned back with Toko and Kazuichi- characters considered at least somewhat better when not absorbed with their "love interest", so this makes the relationship come off as incredibly creepy because half the time it feels like Tenko just wants to bang Himiko. Plus, Himiko's reactions post-death, while understandable because Himiko did somewhat take her friendship for granted, come off as unearned because unlike Taka and Hiyoko, Himiko never even so much as liked Tenko.

Her FTE's are whatever, not horrible, but nothing great either. And while the man-hating schtick might get old, Tenko does get some good moments like encouraging Shuichi and her sadness at Ryoma's death in 3-2. And of course because these moments might've contributed to giving her a character outside Himiko, they're kept few and far between.

And the funny part is you can keep her as a springboard for Himiko's development, but you can also not let it define her. For example, Sayaka and Sakura are a huge influence on Makoto and Hina's stories, but both are established characters with their own motivations and character arcs unto themselves and before DR3 rolled along, I could add Chiaki and Hajime to this list. Maybe we could see Tenko try and take up a supporting role in the trials, or have her interact with the non-Angie and Himiko characters more often, something!

When Tenko died and I went to watch her FTE chain, I felt a little annoyed. After seeing how little she contributed to the plot outside of what I consider the most lazy development arc in the series and seeing the brief glimpses of potential she had, I actively got angry. I like V3, but Christ, the way it treats it's supporting cast is pretty awful.

EDIT: And here come the "I disagree with you, so you're wrong and now I'll downvote you!" crowd. I'm surprised that people give enough of a shit about Tenko to do this, but I'm also annoyed that in a character discussion thread, people cannot be arsed to give any rebuttals. But whatever, you're entitled to your opinion. That doesn't make yours any more right. And no, I don't think you're wrong for disagreeing, I think your a dick for downvoting then peacing like that settles the argument.

to your point about her being solely positioned in relation to himiko: it's not a coincidence that her strongest character moment (imo) is when she approaches shuichi and maki after curfew to make a move against angie. granted, the whole thing is motivated by himiko, and himiko finds her way into the scene eventually, but it's one of the very rare moments in v3 where anyone breaks the silos between cliques and it feels fresh because of it. it's a liability of v3 generally that people tend only to meaningfully interact with whoever is most relevant to Their Arc.

It's pretty sad that this is true. Like, the DR1 and 2 had cliquey dynamics, but they tried to intertwine them with the others, and the various sides ended up playing off each other well. In V3, it's Shuichi/Kaito/Maki off in one corner and everyone else just doing their own thing with the exception of the Student Council (which itself is a horribly handled concept, but that's a discussion for another day). Like, Makoto/Kyoko were off investigating a lot, but they still felt incorporated into the main group, as with Byakuya/Toko and Sakura/Hina.

Like, Makoto/Kyoko were off investigating a lot, but they still felt incorporated into the main group, as with Byakuya/Toko and Sakura/Hina.

Sorry, but this makes no sense.

DR1 was the game where the main group felt more disjointed because Byakuya was a huge prick until the last part of the game and outright refused to join together with the others for breakfast, dinner or whatever (and Toko followed along).

Just because Shuichi spent his evenings training with Kaito and Maki that does not mean he didn't meet everyone else during breakfast or to explore the academy when a new area revealed itself, iirc V3 is the game with the highest number of special fluff events between the classmates, so I don't buy this story that the cast there basically remained in their own groups and didn't mingle. Also Oma, V3's resident prick, at least didn't ditch the group until his plan was in it's last stages.

i agree with /u/BrianTheGinger
. even as the dr1 students were occasionally splintered, i still think of toko/asahina as having a particular dynamic, or byakuya/celeste, or makoto/sakura, even though none of them were each other's One And Only. i find it harder to name those kind of distinct one-off dynamics for v3 -- kokichi has a lot of them, and miu has a few, but that's about it.

Momota/Hoshi comes to mind with that. Arguably Momota/Kaede and Kaede/Amami as well, though it's hard to judge based off of the first chapter. Other than that, let's see, Angie and Tenko's rivalry (which i guess is kind of part of the "clique" but whatever), Saihara and Kiibo had some moments (especially in chapter 5), Saihara and Yumeno especially had some moments, as you said, Ouma has a lot (With Momota, Saihara, Harukawa, Iruma, Gonta, Kiibo, Kaede...yeah. He probably has the most of these out of every non-protagonist character), even Tsumugi/Gonta to an extent.

Though really, I'll never see how this is that big of a deal. I mean, the SDR2 definitely felt like a unified group, but I still can't recall any proper instances where, let's say, Sonia had a meaningful interaction with Kuzuryuu and Owari, or Nanami with any other survivor other than Hinata, Peko with anyone before her death (minus Kuzuryuu but that falls mainly on backstory), etc etc. DR1 was a bit better with this, or at the very least, it was better with the survivors, but I don't think there's much of a difference in how the group dynamic affects the overall writing if the characters still don't interact that much. I guess that's the curse of handling an ensemble cast.

kaito does make a lot of individual connections within the cast, which is fitting given his gregarious personality and self-appointed role as leader of the group, but i find these bonds vibe kind of samey -- i.e., kaito spots an outcast or someone who's down on themselves and takes it upon himself to lift them up. they reflect more on kaito than whomever he's helping. i do agree that ryoma's depressive nature makes him a particularly effective foil for kaito, though.

i agree that dr2 is similarly devoid of these connections and it's always kind of hurt that game for me, especially when you get down to the final five and they all seem like individual actors rather than people with definable dynamics (other than sonia/kazuichi, no one really has any kind of bond, positive or negative, which makes the group feel a bit random). when you reach the final chapter, it de facto becomes 'everyone vs. the mastermind,' so the endgame necessarily leans a bit more heavily on the group dynamic. i've said before that dr2 at least chucks in a few prominent situations where the group congregates in unusual groupings though (the girls' beach party in 2-2, the quarantine in 2-3) so the idea of a general group unity becomes a bit easier to swallow, even if the specifics are vague.

with v3, it's not that these outlier connections never ever happen, it's that barring whatever FTEs you engage in as the protagonist, i find that they're seldom special, unique, or meaningful. there are plenty of instances of maki interacting on superficial level with himiko, for example, but pretty much all of her essential development comes from interacting with shuichi, kaito or kokichi. that's maybe more of what i'm getting at. obviously your mileage may vary, though. like you say, ensemble casts are hard.

that's true. i brought up hoshi in particular because there's the unique aspect of it in that momota looked up to him beforehand, and was pretty disappointed that he wasn't what he expected, though he felt bad after his death. his "helping an outcast" thing really applies to saihara and harukawa the most, but i do feel like those are somewhat different, if not because saihara and harukawa are very different people. i'll agree that his interactions with the rest (well, besides ouma, which was stellar btw) were kinda samey, but they had good moments ("shut up! i'm not going to give you a goddamn piggie back ride!").

that's also a good point. the sdr2 cast definitely feel more way unified- like an actual class- than the v3 kids did. but i'm mainly someone who prizes individual dynamics over group ones, and i don't like lots of the main relationships in sdr2. i think a lot of them are fairly shallow, or at least in terms of buildup. granted, they have a lot of side ones that i enjoy, but sometimes the scenes where the cast was altogether really were a slog to get through, especially earlier in the game. scenes like the beach party and hinata, kuzuryuu, and tsumiki's hospital service were very well done though.

i think it's fairly natural for a character's arc to revolve around a select few of characters. the only example i can think of in sdr2 that breaks this is kuzuryuu and mahiru, and maybe tsumiki/saionji if you count that as a side dynamic. back on v3 though, i can see what you mean. personally, i don't see this as much of a problem since it's not they can form a bond with everyone sufficiently. though the narrower focus is a huge preference of mine. however, i will admit other characters suffer a bit from this too. i'm not going to really count tsumugi because she was written with this in mind, but you could make a case for, let's say, kirumi or shinguuji though tbh shinguuji has his sister.

i agree that most of the dynamics in dr2 are pretty shallow. i'd extend it to say that the dr2 cast as a whole is the most shallow overall, both in terms of the quality of their bonds with one another and in their functions as characters, but i imagine that's subject to interpretation and will vary from player to player.

and yeah, point taken re: the character arcs will generally revolve around a particularly close relationship. it's probably just the most efficient way to write the game. one thing i will say for dr1 is that it was generally very good about having the characters change and react to things other than the death of a close friend. for example, the genocide jack reveal, the introduction of alter ego, the bomb of sakura being the traitor, these were all very good about... not necessarily changing the characters fundamentally but prodding them in a new direction. it made everyone feel a bit more alive. if you comb through v3, it's easy to find similar pivot points that were never quite availed upon (off the top of my head, it seems like the student council saga would have been a great opportunity for, say, gonta to learn a lesson about blindly trusting powerhungry villains...).

eta: and also obviously shinguji/sister are the fated romance of our modern era, no sane person would argue otherwise.

i don't necessarily think the sdr2 cast is the most shallow, but i think they function the worst in the main story. it's kinda sad that even the game's best characters have the whole "DID YOU PLAY THE FTES" discussion around them since a lot of the good stuff is relegated there. don't get me wrong, i think they have some strong dynamics, but they also have some very weak ones.

i haven't looked back at dr1 in awhile. last time i played through a full chapter was probably 3 years ago lmao, but you're right, it's kind of like the happy medium between v3 and sdr2 in how it treats the character dynamics. i think the student council plot was kind of a waste in general, as most would agree, because while it was great while it was happening it just instantly became obsolete as soon as angie and tenko were gone. dr's never been AMAZING with posthumous importance, hence why you have stuff like twilight syndrome never getting brought up again after chapter 2, but it just felt forgotten.

Sonia had a meaningful interaction with Kuzuryuu and Owari

Going back to DR2, Sonia was kind of underwhelming. Her whole pleading for Chiaki's safety and innocence in chapter 5 felt strange because those two never had a moment of one on one bonding on screen.

Nanami with any other survivor other than Hinata

She stopped Akane from killing Nagito. Maybe that counts?

byakuya/celeste, or makoto/sakura

I can see your Toko and Asahina point since they had some legit funny banter when they interacted but these other two? I frankly don't know. Celeste had more interaction and development with freaking Hifumi than Byakuya, who as I said, isolated himself from the group until chapter 5. Makoto wanted to confront Sakura with her secret but never had the chance, I don't remember them interacting and bouncing off each other outside of Sakura's FTE.

Their group dynamic got a lot better after Byakuya and Toko came back to the group's breakfast routine after chapter 4, perhaps that's why some people feel as if the DR1 cast was more united and interacted more even though that was not the case for most of the game.

i find it harder to name those kind of distinct one-off dynamics for v3

I can name a few notable interactions for you then (not counting FTEs and the "main group" of Maki/Kaito/Shuichi):

Kaito/Ryoma

Shuichi/Himiko

Shuichi/Tsumugi

Shuichi/Keebo

Oma/Maki

Oma/Kaito

Oma/Himiko

Tsumugi/Gonta

Oma/Miu

Miu/Keebo

Tenko/Angie/Himiko

Angie/Maki (ch 3)

And so on.

byakuya and celeste were always sort of thematically linked by their ruthlessness; i seem to remember a couple of interactions between them where celeste viewed them as equals but byakuya kinda shat on her the way he shat on everyone. but sure, celeste and hifumi are a good example too, why not?

i always thought there was an interesting tension between makoto and sakura based on his being the only one who knew for sure-for sure that she was the traitor, but that could be because we got a lot of makoto's internal monologue on the subject given that he was the protagonist. in general, we're just privy to a lot more of the protag's dynamics because they're our entrypoint to the story.

i don't remember what was going on between angie and maki in chapter three. what was the deal there? maki just bristling against angie's student council power play?

Then Celeste tried to make herself as Byakuya's equal but he just treated her like trash? That doesn't seem that notable to me. Her whole thing with Hifumi was legitimately more interesting since him knowing her name implies they were friends before their memories being erased.

About Sakura and Makoto... I could maybe see your point if Makoto actually got to talk to her about her secret but he never did. Instead him knowing about the secret and wanting to speak with Sakura first only worked to create a problem to his partnership with Kyoko.

i don't remember what was going on between angie and maki in chapter three. what was the deal there?

I remember Angie directly antagonizing Maki once she had the StuCo on her side probably Maki was killer, that was shown by Maki being directly addressed by the StuCo for being out during nightime as soon as she came back from training while Shuichi could go back to sleep just fine.

Maki was also one of the few who actually saw through Angie's "Atua's desires" thing as just a product of Angie's will.

re: dr1... cool? lol obviously we pulled different things from the character dynamics. that's fine.

the maki/angie stuff sounds interesting. i wish it had been explored further; they'd be good foils for each other. both among the most headstrong members of the female cast, maki seems mercenary but ultimately cares about others, angie seems harmless at first glance but is actually a self-interested megalomaniac, etc. interesting parallels.

dr1... cool? lol obviously we pulled different things from the character dynamics. that's fine.

Yeah, I don't really remember Celeste and Byakuya having any kind of interesting dynamic. If you saw that somehow then all the power to you.

The downvoting is some stupid shit quite frankly.

I didn't downvote but I heavily disagree with you about Himiko's arc. Let's leave that for her discussion though.

Stop me if you've heard this one.

I know there's a Danganronpa character who is really abrasive and aggressive. They're pretty pushy at times, and if they were a real person, they'd be really annoying to be around for a long period. That said, they have a good heart. They might have strong views about men and/or women, but they will still stand up for others. In fact, there's always going to be a smaller character they'll stand up for when someone tries to gang up on them, and you'll start to see their stronger side. They might not be the nicest person, but they aren't bad. It'll probably happen in the game's second chapter 2.

I just described Mondo, Mahiru, and now the third game with Tenko. Tenko I feel is a little too derivative of previous game characters for my liking, and it's a general issue I have with the series. V3 and DR 2 both would mix together characters from the previous games, and that in itself isn't a bad thing, especially when you reimagine ideas of different characters, but it really feels lazy and cut/paste when done to this extent. Not only that, but because this is a mystery series, it makes it really obvious who is likely to become relevant and when if you know what happens to the characters in the previous games. They take the same pool of "similar" characters and then switch around who is the killer/victim/red herring, so if you know who was like say Mahiru and Peko (who were inversions of Mondo and Toko's characters, both of whom became relevant in chapter 2) you'll know what to look for in terms of suspects. If you connect enough dots, then it narrows down the suspect list even without context. It led to me suspecting as early as the prologue that either Tenko or Kirumi would end up being the chapter 2 killer and led me to feel that either Ryoma or Himiko would get ganged up on in the second chapter and Tenko or Kirumi would stand up for them.

Dead on.

Just like Mondo and Chihiro and Mahiru and Hiyoko, Tenko does this for Himiko and sticks up for her in the second class trial. It's a different dynamic in that Himiko doesn't initially reciprocate any friendship until after Tenko's death, but even then the whole "creepy aggressive person obsessing over one other character who obviously isn't interested" has already been done twice with Byakuya/Toko and Sonia/Kazuichi. Obviously no character is 100% original, but that doesn't mean just copy and paste entire characters by mixing and matching a few for a new game.

Tenko's also feels a little uncharacteristic and feels like they're trying to rush her arc. I like the competition between Tenko and Angie come case 2, but it's ridiculous that Tenko declares that she's willing to risk death because she believes so much in Himiko. Never mind the fact that she has had barely any time to get to know Himiko to do this at this point in the narrative.

I'm all for friends willing to die for each other. I totally get that, and for my closest friends, I definitely would. Having said that, I didn't get that close to my close friends with one or two conversations, especially since the game makes it clear that at that point, Himiko didn't reciprocate anything. Granted, I do feel Himiko's mindset wasn't entirely healthy and part of Tenko did want to break her out of that and case 3 makes it especially clear since Tenko is more interested in Himiko's well-being than even having feelings reciprocated. It feels really rushed that she's risking death for Himiko. It also just makes things feel really rehashed when we've done this exact dynamic for a third game in a row with the abrasive character with strong views about men/women standing up for the shorter, smaller character when things aren't looking good for them, and it doesn't help that Hiyoko was the target of a frameup already and we have it with Himiko this time.

With Ishimaru, he doesn't try to get anyone killed and believes so firmly in his brother that he makes a wrong vote. The game constantly remarks on how unusual it is that Mondo and Ishimaru just suddenly became such close friends overnight, and it was implied and also a point of foreshadowing that the two of them regained some of their school memories after being exposed to the heat in the sauna. The two had years of friendship to tie them together, so it made sense that Ishimaru was willing to risk his life for a close friend.

DR 2 established that Peko and Fuyuhiko were childhood friends and had a connection with each other prior to the killing game. It's not entirely sympathetic (and the game doesn't portray it as such) that they're both willing to sacrifice the entire class to save the other, but Fuyuhiko willing to kill himself along with the others or Peko attempting to save Fuyuhiko at the cost of her own life made sense because the game established a connection between the two.

Tenko declares that she'd rather die, and it's like...she had like two conversations with Himiko. The game has it as a really heartwarming moment too, so it's not as if the focus is on anything, not to mention we have the pattern of the two bro/sis characters coming together and one of them inevitably dying in case 3. The only difference is that one of them is a survivor and they delayed when the arc resolves by a little bit.

Outside of her actual character, I really find her whole "Degenerate Male" bit annoying for similar reasons to Keebo. I brought it up in his discussion week, but it felt really meanspirited that he's basically just a stand in for "that's racist/sexist/homophobic" and even though Tenko doesn't actually hold any direct views herself, it's kind of the same issue. Even now and moreso back when DR 2 was newer, there were several memes about how Mahiru was the Ultimate Feminist purely based on the fact that she was so harsh toward men. Even a hair of analysis would tell you that Mahiru's views are almost directly the opposite of that of a feminist, but it didn't stop the memes from happening, and it's based in the idea of her just being seen as a man-hating hypocrite. Even when you play the bonus mode and they have Tenko and Mahiru come together, Mahiru's reaction of "whoa, wait a minute now" kind of further sells the idea of how exaggerated it is.

So maybe the writers would take that into consideration while writing V3?

Nah, let's just make it into more of a meme and exaggerate it even more. Half the time it really feels like they just capitalize on the whole Mahiru man-hater base by having Tenko constantly be an idiotic hypocrite, and even from a narrative standpoint, it really ruins the mood of a lot of situations where Tenko just writes off some degenerate male during a serious situation, and the fact that the first male killer ends up being a woman hunting serial killer just for the extra bit of "haha, funny amirite" doesn't really sit well with me..

I get that she doesn't actually have any real genuine hatred of men when you really look at her actions, but it doesn't change what the humor is used for.

I really like the idea of the Toko/Kazuichi character actually changing and growing out of that attitude and while they still care about the target of their affection, this person actually wants that person to think for themselves and be a healthy person. Tenko has one of the rare showings of a genuinely caring relationship in Danganronpa, and I think it's unfortunate she gets treated the way she does by the writing. It's pretty much still a longstanding issue of the series that they don't bother to do much of anything beyond a one dimensional bit for a character until the chapter that character is set to die in. Once a character begins to become more complicated or unfold, they die before it really goes anywhere.

I do like Tenko quite a bit when they have her grow out of just obsessing over Tenko and basically being Kazuichi and Toko. One of the big things I have an issue with about UDG is that they decide to take what was basically a joke dynamic and Byakuya (the guy who outed Toko's serial killer secret when she confided in him, regularly wishes death on her, and was nothing but a complete dick to her save for one "good job" in the game) and try to make us take it seriously when that's Toko's motivation. With Tenko, she infiltrates the student council, and as much of a huge mess as that entire case is, Tenko trying to stick up for Himiko and just having her best interest in mind is one of the better parts of it. Unfortunately, because this is Danganronpa, the moment Tenko starts to become dynamic or be more complicated as a character, she has to be killed off. She also is unfortunately the victim of the S E E S A W E F F E C T and we will definitely talk about that in Korekiyo's discussion week, but I think overall, she's a decent character that got screwed over by poor pacing for this kind of character arc and the fact that she just feels way too derivative of the Danganronpa formula. The whole Degenerate male bit also just feels pretty directed and meanspirited.

On a random note, it really felt like a number of sprites in v3 existed just to try and make memes, and you know exactly which Tenko sprite I'm talking about. Hers at at least expressive and mostly have good poses at least. Luckly Tenko has a collection of several better moments that help save her character, so I still like her more than most of the cast.

Tenko's also feels a little uncharacteristic and feels like they're trying to rush her arc. I like the competition between Tenko and Angie come case 2, but it's ridiculous that Tenko declares that she's willing to risk death because she believes so much in Himiko. Never mind the fact that she has had barely any time to get to know Himiko to do this at this point in the narrative.

danganronpa is a little weird because death is so central to the narrative and yet the game is never quite consistent with how seriously death is taken within the world. like everyone is notionally very terrified and daunted by the killing game, the executions are super disturbing, the destruction of the outside world and the accompanying mass deaths are treated with tons of gravity...

...but on the flip side: no one really cares that toko is a serial killer or that maki is an assassin, people constantly throw the class trials into chaos for pointless reasons even though the obvious outcome is death for all, the v3 cast cheerfully opted into a fatal tv show that's beloved worldwide, dudes like nagito and kokichi kill themselves simply to prove points, and pretty much any mastermind from junko to tsumugi will blithely kill themselves to further their ideology and in fact seem to know in advance that they will eventually have to do so. and, yes, people are constantly putting their lives on the line for people they just met and barely know.

it's a trade hazard in a series that deals in death but still has to strike an irreverent tone, i guess. do you approach death in a scary way or a detached, nihilist way? it varies from situation to situation depending on what the narrative requires.

The 'Degenerate Male' strikes me as something Tenko and Kodaka thought that'd be cool but really isn't, especially given the character doesn't actually hold this view so it's just stupid instead of petty.

Due to a lack of pacing in general you can generally figure out anybody that previously had no meaningful development suddenly become relevant means they're about to get involved in the chapter. I tend to avoid thinking about these things because otherwise you indeed can figure out all the involved party without any other context, and while I find the mystery bit overrated, I'd prefer not to know all the parties of a murder before it's even happened. I think that's just a fundamental weakness of DR that it can never overcome.

The whole 'dying for friends' suffers from the issue above. Since characters generally don't appear to even talk to each other, you usually end up having a telltale 'friendship development' scene followed immediately by undying loyalty because A talked to B once. Oddly enough I think the first example of this in the franchise, which is Sakura and Hina, did it quite well. We start as early as chapter 1 to know that Hina implicitly trusts Sakura since she asked Sakura to sleep together so she'd feel safe. There isn't ever a scene where either of them say they'll totally die for each other, but there's no doubt they will and do choose that when chapter 4 hits. Ironically it's the little things like in chapter 2 Hina says she trains with Sakura together (and invited Chihiro to come along), or that they both love protein drinks in chapter 4 is what builds this friendship, not some sudden epiphany. Of course, Sakura did survive to chapter 4 so she's got more time, but I think even characters doomed to die in chapter 1 can have more than a single instance of talking to someone as a basis for friendship. On the same note I've the same issue with Kyoko's analysis of what Sayaka might have been thinking as she died, when I'm not sure if she's ever talked to Sayaka in the entire game. It just feels insulting that you have these huge analysis or revelation on certain relationships that literally has no basis anywhere in the game.

I know there's a Danganronpa character who is really abrasive and aggressive. They're pretty pushy at times, and if they were a real person, they'd be really annoying to be around for a long period. I just described Mondo, Mahiru, and now the third game with Tenko.

Speak for yourself mate, Mahiru is marriage material and not nearly as annoying as Tenko was.

Mondo has anger problems but he's still a good guy when you get to know him, once again not as bothersome as Tenko is.

But even so, all three of them fit the pattern of being pretty aggressive toward the MC. Mondo and Mahiru both held very traditional views toward men and women, and Tenko of course has her degenerate males bit.

All three of them are then given a different light in chapter 2 when they stand up for a shorter, smaller character who is getting ganged up on in Chihiro, Hiyoko, and Himiko.

Well, Mondo was aggressive towards everyone initially but he mellows out once he finds a bro in Ishimaru. I never felt Mahiru was aggressive towards Hajime, she just expected a lot of him (and the other men) because of her tradionalist values (which is necessarily not a bad thing) and her experiences with her father, I don't think that what she had can be compared to Tenko's pure naive hate of anything male.

Oh, I also don't see how Mondo has strong tradionalistic values. He was probably just acting chivalrous when he defended Chihiro early in chapter 2, that's not really an indication of anything.

All three of them are then given a different light in chapter 2 when they stand up for a shorter, smaller character who is getting ganged up on in Chihiro, Hiyoko, and Himiko.

And Mondo ends up killing Chihiro, Mahiru is unable to change who Hiyoko is while she's alive and Hiyoko ends up dead later because of her persistent character flaws while Tenko manages to affect and help Himiko develop, development that makes her survive the killing game.

So even if you consider the starting situations similar, the development they all had feels pretty different.

I didn't say their developments were different, just that they're generally the same base characters given the same progressions in the same chapters. They just switch around the roles between killer, victim, etc.

Mondo has really strong traditional views in the games. I don't see how this is up for discussion. down to how he refers to the women, refuses to fight any of them, even a literal ultimate fighter. It's pretty much one of the most defining traits of his character and it comes through even more strongly in his FTEs when he talks about what real men do and to a lesser degree how he addresses women.

I'm not saying there are literally no differences between the characters, just that Tenko didn't just magically happen out of nowhere and that she like most DR characters is a retelling of characters they've already used just mixed with others.

I didn't say their developments were different, just that they're generally the same base characters given the same progressions in the same chapters

I think that's a very superficial view that takes in account only one similar thing that the characters have and then overblows that.

I also disagree that they have the same progression.

Mondo has really strong traditional views in the games

Refusing to fight women is basic chivalry and it's still something he ultimately doesn't cares for when he gets angry. I don't see how that's a particularly strong traditionalistic disposition.

through even more strongly in his FTEs when he talks about what real men do

That's just typical manly talk, mate, Kaito does that all of the time...do you think he has traditionalistic views too?

If you make Mahiru, a character who actually has tradionalistic views, have a conversation with Mondo, she'd definitely disapprove of him once she learned his occupation, reckless behavior and quick to anger disposition.

Futhermore I think there is one clear distinction that we should highlight when talking about Mahiru's traditionalistic disposition and it's that it's there regarding how she thinks of men, as in she thinks they should be dependable and responsible unlike her lazy father but she definitely doesn't thinks women should only be housewives, dependent on their husbands.

Tenko didn't just magically happen out of nowhere and that she like most DR characters is a retelling of characters they've already used just mixed with others.

I think Tenko's rampant, annoying sexism and misandrism plus her overwhelming naivety are enough to make her into her own character rather than just a retelling because of one similar characteristic that she has.

That's just typical manly talk, mate,

So it's traditional masculine rhetoric, yet you don't think it's an example of traditional gender views? My brain cannot handle this contradiction!

And to answer the question, I do think Kaito has traditional views when it comes to one gender. Pretty sure you look up the definition of "machismo" you'll find a picture of Kaito there. He's constantly telling Shuichi to "man up" and be assertive and confident. despite rarely asking Himiko to do the same thing even when she arguably needs to hear that advice more.

Yet he's not explicitly telling the girls to stand back and do nothing any more than the other guys. He asks Maki and Tenko for help when fighting Monokuma. When he does start to refuse help in chapter 5, it's from both gender equally, not just one.

I think he has clear views in regards to how men should act, but is more fluid when it comes to women.

So it's traditional masculine rhetoric, yet you don't think it's an example of traditional gender views? My brain cannot handle this contradiction!

So if a woman talks about women things with her friends, about going to the salon to become prettier for her partner, you know typical women things...she's being traditionalistic? I don't think so.

To hold traditional gender values is to think something along the lines that the man should be responsible and the one who provides while the women takes care of the household and children. Mahiru seems to think somewhat like that, at least regarding the male part. Both Kaito and Mondo seem to have a more idealistic idea of what being manly is about, and that has to do with their respective senses of adventure and leadership because of their talent.

To hold traditional gender values is to think something along the lines that the man should be responsible and the one who provides while the women takes care of the household and children.

That's the traditional gender roles in relation to marriage, not the entire definition.

Traditional masculine gender role expectations includes being competitive (caused the death of Mondo's brother, Chihiro and how he formed his friendship with Ishimaru,) independent (Kaito's constant insistence that he will find a way to save everyone else,) and a sense that they can't show weakness (partially why Mondo was jealous of Chihiro, plus Kaito kept trying to downplay his own illness.)

That's the traditional gender roles in relation to marriage, not the entire definition.

Not just marriage but relationships in general. Where else would you apply gender roles but in relation to one another? At least, that's how I see it.

Traditional masculine gender role expectations includes being competitive (caused the death of Mondo's brother, Chihiro and how he formed his friendship with Ishimaru,) independent (Kaito's constant insistence that he will find a way to save everyone else,) and a sense that they can't show weakness (partially why Mondo was jealous of Chihiro, plus Kaito kept trying to downplay his own illness.)

Okay, I can recognize that those factors are somewhat common and reinforced on traditional male behavior. I thought that gender roles only applied to relationships between the genders but maybe I was wrong? Idk

Nonetheless going back to how this all started Mondo and Mahiru are still fairly different since Mahiru actively pushed her values on others while Mondo was more or less focused on himself. If anything the way Mahiru acted is kind of similar to the way Kaito did.

continue this thread

The worst character in the game for me. No contest.

Tenko is so freaking annoying and her gimmick feels incredibly repetitive and not funny at all. I've seen some people say that while she frequently spouts her biased hatred against everything male she actually supports them from time to time but those moments feel so random that's difficult to say anything about them especially since she returns to her original "Hurr I hate males" behavior right after them (for example, she supports Shuichi as soon as chapter 1 ends and is worried about him at the start of chapter 2, she even asks him "to not behave in a shameful manner ever again" but a little after chapter 2 starts she is back at calling him a degenerate). Basically what I am saying is that her evolution as a character is incredibly lacking, even her FTE doesn't highlights a more relevant change. I also find extremely hypocritical for people to ship Himiko/Tenko as soon as chapter 2 started if they used to shit on Sonia/Soda since back in chapter 2 Tenko was already several levels above Soda regarding being creep towards the one they had an obsession for.

Not everything about her character is bad though. I liked her role in chapter 3, she was a very solid character there, showing that she genuinely cared for Himiko and that she wanted the young mage to improve herself. I also like the fact that, as we find in her FTE, she doesn't have any serious issue behind her behavior, she's just incredibly naive and gullible and as result of that it's undeniable that some parts of her FTE can be really funny. Frankly those two aspects stop me from exaggerating and claiming that Tenko is the worst character in the series.

Oh, her character design is also pretty awful btw.

During the initial introductions, she was by far the character I couldn't stand the most. Miu was verbally abusive, but she's also all bark and no bite; the moment Kaede shows some backbone, she backs down.

Tenko was constant barrage of "degenerate males!" when only about a couple of them acted like dicks around her. The rest of them were either pleasant or genuinely friendly but none of that mattered to Tenko. All that mattered was that part of the identity; male = bad. Just...imagine substituting this for other parts of a person's identity. Their race or sexuality. It would be such a completely abhorrent behaviour that nobody with common decency would want to be around them.

One of the things I'm starting to notice with these character discussions is that the cast of V3 is very selective about reacting to each other in a way we would rationally expect. Miu tells a crude joke, people treat her like a pervert. Kokichi lies twenty times a day, nobody believes what Kokichi is saying (until the plot demands it). But then you have things like the general lack of criticism levelled at Maki, the few times people stand up for Keebo and the extremely rare times anyone calls Tenko out on this attitude.

And I'd feel better about it if I was able to convince myself that it's just an over-exaggerated parody character, but I know it's not. I know there are people in this world who are genuinely this toxic towards the other sex and proudly share these views with the same magnitude that Tenko does. I'm all one for dark humour, but typically when that's the case, I know there's no malicious intent behind the one telling the joke. Tenko...doesn't feel like that to me. She seems to genuinely harbour some of the feeling she preaches.

And yet I felt compelled to spend my FTE's with her. Yes, I wanted to spend my finite Free Time BONDING Events with a character I just couldn't stand and didn't want to bond with in anyway. Because never let it be said that Tenko is boring. Even when I loathed her, I HAD to know what was it that made her tick. What was it that gave her this world view.

Now granted getting to the end of those FTE's didn't exactly feel like it was worth the investment at the end, but it made me care enough to do it the first place and that means something. In my mind, an unlikable character is leagues better than a boring one.

So, enough about the degenerate thing, what else is there to say about her? Well, not much. She's the token "character that dies for the sake of another character's development." It's well executed (better the Nekomaru, not quite as good as Peko) and it did cause a distinct change in Himiko for the better. It's nothing unique or daring but it works well for what it is. I don't think "not being original" in itself is something to slam a character for.

I know a lot of people want Danganronpa to have 16 characters all given a fair shake, each treated with the right level of development that doesn't just exist in the chapter they die in so that they can all flourish and blossom...But we've seen what happened when characters that show the potential for further development down the line get killed off prematurely; outrage. Sometimes, you just need a character that fulfils more from dying then they do from living. Especially when death is so frequent in this game.

And for all of my criticisms of chapter 3 (at one my point my least favourite chapter in the series) everything wrapped around Tenko specifically is done right. Infiltrating the council, not just protecting Himiko, but also studying Angie (I feel like, without the FTE's, we learn more form Tenko's observations about Angie then we do from Angie herself.) And then when push came to shove, she was willing to ruin her friendship with Himiko just to try an shake some sense into her.

Tenko fulfils everything she's supposed to be. It's just a question of if you wanted more or less than what that was exactly.

I know a lot of people want Danganronpa to have 16 characters all given a fair shake, each treated with the right level of development that doesn't just exist in the chapter they die in so that they can all flourish and blossom

I think the ONLY way this can be done is if there were branching paths. A Chapter 2 death can make it to the Finish Line on another path for example.

I actually think V3 would have been perfect for a New Game + mode with how Chapter 1 plays out, even in spite of the ending. A NG+ could have been a Kaede run where she changes what happens in the first Chapter, only for a panicked Tsumugi to kill Shuichi instead. From there, you can have Monokuma claim to keep playing despite the Masterminds death because "DANGANRONPA NEVER ENDS!" and that playthrough becomes more about learning of the true canon's early deaths while also learning a little more about the world they're from via Rantaro. But perhaps this would completely ruin the ending we got and this is just my greed of wanting some more Ultimate Tennis Pro in my life kicking in.

I don't think it's greedy. Pretty sure all of us have considered the idea of Danganronpa becoming less linear. It's kind of natural "what if..." territory in mystery games. Not to mention that this NG+ idea you're suggesting would appease most of the critics of the protagonist switch.

But then the rebuttal is always the same. "It would be too difficult for them to do this on top of the main game," and I guess they're not wrong.

And yet I felt compelled to spend my FTE's with her. Yes, I wanted to spend my finite Free Time BONDING Events with a character I just couldn't stand and didn't want to bond with in anyway.

same dude. when playing as kaede i spent time with tenko the most until i realized that you couldn't get more than two events. this is one of those cases where mc switch bugged me bc now with shuichi it wouldn't be the same. it still helps because we get to know her reaction to talking with a man but yeah, i kinda wanted to see more events of her and kaede.

Honestly couldn't stand her. Did all the FTE's to see if she developed, but they just made her seem like an even bigger idiot than she already was. I hate how while Miu's rude but mostly harmless remarks got constantly called out, no one ever said, "Hey Tenko, can you stop being such a fucking sexist?" And I will never understand the people that say you have to "read between the lines". Ok? So she doesn't think ALL men are bad. Just 99,99% of them. And I just know if the roles were flipped and Tenko was a man calling women degenerate the internet would flip its shit. All in all, a bad character, but her voice lines and faces are pretty funny, so she's a few steps above Hiyoko.

Also there's that doujin of her and Shuichi, so she gets some points for that.

There's a thing in Danganronpa about what behavior gets a call-out, social consequences like somebody yelling back, etc, or just condemned in the narrative, and what behavior sails past completely ignored. I don't know, and I honestly don't, if this is a cultural thing, or even a deliberate commentary on culture thngs, but stuff like Hiyoko's bullying, or Tenko's shouting about [males], sails past with nary a comment from anyone ever.

Honestly, I kinda got tired of the whole "degenerate male" schtick, but I still haven't done all her free time events yet, so my mind towards her may change. Right now, she's a meh character at most

When I went through the characters of V3, Tenko caught my eye for having a great design which I felt was calming and pretty. The colours swing in harmony and her hair is absolutely beautiful. During the character introductions, I became even more interested in her, since at that point, I didn't know it was simply a catchphrase she would repeat at any given situation. The story went on and her dialogue kept on becoming more and more grating because even when I thought she was discriminating against other men, I was hoping she wouldn't be so shallow about it. But she was.

I found her character in Chapter 3 to be at its peak. She was thrusted in a situation where she genuinely disliked how Angie was manipulating everyone, especially Himiko, to side with her. I believe there was even some acknowledgement on her part where she mentioned that even girls can be 'degenerate' or something. She infiltrates the Student Council to understand Angie's schemes so she can protect Himiko and all of this is great. But that's when she goes away. What did she learn or accomplish? Next to nothing, sadly. She just leaves right when she's about to understand the wrongs of her perspective. She's like Hiyoko's character arc but with a bit more focus; still butchered halfway.

Now, her relationship with Himiko stuck out as odd to me. I can buy her interest being superficial but is it enough to die to protect her and constantly defend her without thinking? At first I thought it strange but now, it just adds into one of the many things that make her unbelievably simplistic and straightforward. Her FTEs stand out as the biggest demonstration of how gullible and child-like she is and... I don't find it endearing in the slightest. Definitely great that a predictable abuse story wasn't mentioned as her reason, but what we got is also not enough to justify the way she thinks. At all.

If you're gullible and simple, there is nothing wrong with that. There's Gonta who is exactly that, but at least he's not accusing people, berating them based on their gender for shallow reasons without even thinking about it. People can subscribe to whatever thoughts they please but one needs to reach that conclusion themselves rather than listening to others say it. And it's the core reason why I dislike her; she's like those people who do not understand or research an issue and simply go along with what has been presented to them by other people.

Her behaviour even shows that she doesn't actually feel as much ill will towards men so it's baffling to me how she keeps continuing this obnoxious charade. It's just tiring. She's the kind of person I cannot put up with, no matter how kind she may be underneath that hostility. So unfortunately, she's my least favourite V3 character by a long shot.

People can subscribe to whatever thoughts they please but one needs to reach that conclusion themselves rather than listening to others say it. And it's the core reason why I dislike her; she's like those people who do not understand or research an issue and simply go along with what has been presented to them by other people.

i like this way to look at her. i sorta like tenko but she does seem stupidly disconnected to what she's saying which hardly makes me take her seriously.

Tenko is best girl.

From those throws that kinda remind me of shihonages to those meme faces, she's excellent!

No, really, it takes skill to have expressive sprites for every occasion.

In general, I have to say that she's an incredibly expressive character who isn't afraid to expose her thoughts and feelings to her environment even seemingly(?) overwhelming Himiko with her feelings in the process. Admittedly, she is pretty stupid, though, considering her motivations for hating men degenerate males and all i blame team danganronpa for the subpar portions of her ftes.

Regardless, her energetic personality perfect foil to himiko? perfect foil to himiko. made her more likable than expected. She made the Chapter 3 Investigation the most emotional one yet, dammit!

My only gripe with her is about how she did not tell Shuichi and Himiko to remove their shoes before entering her dojo/stepping on the mats.

Then again, I am biased towards her because she's the Ultimate Aikido Master (and a cute girl to boot! Double score!).

Tl;dr: Biased Aikido noob rates Tenko a 11/10; she lives by the meme and dies by the meme.

She did not tell them to remove their shoes, but she kinds of cancels that out by wearing freaking socks and sandals! She needs to pick! It's one or the other, honey! You choose!

I think Tenko is a decent character who has some pretty strong moments in chapter 2 and 3 and i think the way she was used to help other characters grow was a good decision. I don't think she has a ton of depth and she could be a lot better but she's fine enough as is.

Tenko was... okay I guess. I wish she survived longer because she died just as she was starting to get bearable.

:(

Next thread is gonna be pain for all of us Tsumugi fans out there.

Next thread is gonna be plain for all of us Tsumugi fans out there.

FTFY.

For a moment, I scanned the end of your sentence trying to see if you did what I would have, which is change 'fans' to 'fan'-

There are dozens of us! DOZENS!

Now this was a case of ‘don't judge a book by it's cover' for me. When I seen Tenko in the demo, I literally thought she would of been my most hated character cause of her ‘degenerate male' thing. But when I got to know more about her, seeing some of her actions, and having the one sprite that always makes me laugh. Like the first time I seen it it was Spoiler She turned into one of my favorite characters in V3, and the saddest thing was. When I was just starting to like her, and seeing her good side. Spoiler

In the end though, she turned from one of my least favorites into one of my most favorites.

She couldn't have been killed off in chapter 1 it 2 when she was my most hated character. Of course Danganronpa had to go and make her one of my favourites in the franchise, THEN give her the axe.

​ The thing with V3 is that you still have a lot of archetypes for most of the characters that are kept during the entire game are very similar/sometimes identical to other characters that appeared in previous entries, to the point that it can just end up on (almost) exact same scenarios, especially when those characters follow almost point to point the formula dictated to them, regardless of how many meta reasons apply.

However, at times, there can be those characters who still follow their "script" and formula to a T, and while being too derivative to this point sucks, there can be exceptions, characters who can still manage to capture at least one thing and make a good tell of it. It's my opinion that Tenko is one of those characters. Others already told about the issue of her being... too similar to a certain type of character that, just happens to have a traditional view on men/women due to the environment they were raised in, they will stick up to the small character in the cast when they are being picked on by others, and that happens in chapter 2 of every main game.

In DR1, Oowada sticks up to defend Fujisaki when Togami is being Togami, and has this manner of calling men and women "dudes" and "chicks" respectively because of where he came from, saying as far as "chicks are weak it's normal to protect them" while unconsciously hurting Fujisaki's feelings (but apologizes after). In SDR2, Koizumi sticks up to Saionji when she gets picked on by the others for being stinky, and has this stereotypical view for men (which is NOT because she "hates" them as people back in the day said - and this was recently disproven by Word of God himself, she only has high expectations of them, due to her family situation). In V3, you have Tenko, even if this time she directly says to outright hate men, sticking up to Yumeno when she gets accused of murder. You get the point. (NOTE : I'm saying she gets some similarities from other characters in previous games, but that doesn't mean "OMG THIS CHARACTER IS THE EXACT SAME FROM X GAME AGO" instantly).

At the very least, they do had a point where I didn't just ultimately guess what her fate would be in details. First, due to her aforementionned parallels, I did expect her to bit the dust at first in Chapter 2 or 3, and then when they revealed more of a dynamic with her and Yumeno (more of that in a sec), my theory was that one of the two was going to bit it and the other was developping due to the death of the other person in the duo, and surviving due to the "Person Dies For Me, Gets Me A Death-Free Card", which ultimately happens in Chapter 3. Ignoring all the issues in the Chapter 3 (like how useless it was for Shinguuji to kill Tenko, regardless of wasting SEESAW or not, when he had a better chance to escape with Angie's kill - which was even commited on the fly, but hey, that's formula to ya cuz fuck interesting scenarios, let's just drop more evidence for just being stupid), one thing I do really like is her final moments, when talking to Yumeno about her being the one to "receive" Angie.

"Expressing your feelings is perfectly natural. You shouldn't feel ashamed at all. So...if you feel like crying while you're talking to Angie, go ahead and cry your eyes out. ...You'll feel better when you do. Well, I mean...laughing makes you feel better too... And venting your anger onto something can really cheer you up! Train your heart by crying, laughing, and venting your anger, Himiko."

Those words alone, which are emphasized a bit also by other instances before, shows a side of Tenko that I consider to be the main force behind her character and the thing I felt that was captured well : her focusing on self-improvement and express (relevant with her talent, as Aikido without the Neo part is a martial art that, like most of them, focus on improvement of the self, physically and mentally. More detailed explanation here.)

This is from where Tenko is mostly drawing her appeal to me, and when making a retrospective of what is shown of her during the game, that theme she carries of "There is nothing wrong with being expressive and showing more of yourself" is central to her and how it can affect others. Look at her sprites and how expressive she can get for example.

There is also that semi-obsessive relationship with Yumeno where she doesn't even hide her attirance to her (explained why in FTE and in main story as well), and the first thought would be that she only stalks her as much for such reason. But when Chapter 3 comes up, she spars with her as to hear her heart.. kinda. There is also, as other mentioned, that she "infiltrated" the Student Council to watch over Yumeno, they have an argument over what Yumeno is feeling and her mindset at the time (which wasn't very good for her, but even if Tenko isn't that mature or doesn't respect boundaries , but make up after. The issue with their relationship could be alienated with having less pacing issues, for sure, but also if they made more interactions between the two (especially before chp 2 comes up, and interactions that aren't just Tenko gushing on Yumeno), but for what it made, I felt it felt pretty interesting, and, as someone else put on that thread, like two kids paired together, one who was kept this way, another who don't care about magic, etc. Not the healthiest one, but still decent for me.

If I were the writer of this game, I'd have prefered to make Tenko evolve a bit more during her screentime, since like, discrimination is dumbfounded and making her grow out of that could be a nice feel to it. Also make her looking after other people than just making Yumeno feel better, extend it to others (like a certain fic does well), since at some point Tenko despite her ""punchline"" of sorts with menaces,can have a good judgement for some characters (like before entering the 2nd trial), that could work in some situations, despite Tenko not being useful in case logic, there are other characters that contributed to the ambiance in the cast with boosting the morale in general, and Tenko can be welcome in that for me.

Damn, I love Tenko.

If Tenko was a guy, I can't imagine the things she would do to Shuichi. I mean think about it lol

Tenko Chabashira...I'm really indifferent about her. Not exactly because of the man hating trait cuz I don't really mind since it's mainly made for comic relief but for what they did with her besides that. For those who did her FTEs, know that she kind of misinterpreated her master's words regarding men and was afraid of interacting with them since she thought she would lose her aikido powers. Let's not forgot, there times that she doesn't exactly look like she really hates them, by wishing them "good morning" or refering them with respect, using the japanese honorifics and when Shuichi was lacking confidence during chapter 3, she even tried to comfort him and help him. I think Tenko was pretty much lost about what she would think regarding boys and sometimes, was even in doubt with people like Gonta and Shuichi around. Now, you might ask...After saying this about Tenko, why she is such a indfiferent character for me? It's simple. There are two things that I dislike regarding Tenko:

Her relationship with Himiko sometimes.

The fact that she died without have something for herself

I really dislike how Tenko become a creep for Himiko and sometimes being worse than Kiyo regarding creepiness. She constantly says stuff to Himiko regarding how she eats, sits and etc., and there times, being even disgusting by wanting to split saliva on her just because she thought Himiko got wounded, drooling when Himiko got mentioned and other stuff. I know that she wants to protect Himiko cuz she find her cute and all, but I find annoying how she invades someone's personal life, doesn't give them a time and Himiko is clearly annoyed about it since she told Tenko to stop countless times but she just insists and let's not forgot, being a creep. Now, here comes the part that made me dislike Tenko regarding this whole affection about Himiko: Chapter 2 investigation and trial. Honestly, I didn't knew Tenko was that dumb to not let people talk with Himiko or talk about her magic trick just for "protect her" from people who wanted to know more about the case, knowing that if they don't caught the culprit they are all gonna die. It was annoying to hear her constantly whine about that in the beginning of chapter 2 trial, bothering people's discussions everytime they pointed at Himiko as the culprit. Yes, Himiko might not look like someone that would kill but if Tenko allowed people to question her, they might've proved earlier that Himiko couldn't be the culprit since her and Ryouma couldn't come from the same place in the magic trick and she had alibis regarding the day prior the murder and during morning with Angie. Not only annoying but I find this trait regarding loving someone that is not fond of you, too repetitive aswell since we have see it before in past games too like DR1 with Toko and Byakuya and in DR2 with Kazuichi and Sonia, with Tenko being similar with these past examples.

Now, the second reason is most likely something that happened with her, not necessarily what I dislike about the character. This is basically the chapter 3 syndrome and something that happened in the past games aswell. Tenko was starting to get some development and open more for boys while changing her view aswell but of course, she had to die in the middle of it. I thought that the writers would learn from some mistakes before in the past games that killing a character off the bat in the middle of the development is not a good thing, since it leaves a lot of questions about them open and vague. But guess what? They started that issue with Ishimaru, continued with Hiyoko and did the same with Tenko. She got killed without getting some development about her character. So questions like "Would she fully change her view on boys? How her relationship with Himiko would be after that? etc." are left without a proprly answers. Everything we can do now is imagine how Tenko would be if she sorta lived past chapter 3. Maybe she would have improved or no but we will never know because so much stuff about her has been left since she died in the middle of all of this and we can't confirm if she would be a better person since we have to judge a character based on what we have and not in what they "could" be, because headcanons can't be treated like a fact. Just because you think a character would improve, doesn't necessarily mean it's part of the canon regarding the story, something that I see a lot with Hiyoko discussions with the constantly "She would become a better person if Fuyu died instead of her like how it was planned." That's just your thought and headcanon and you have freedom for it. You can offer proofs of a possible change regarding a character but that isn't going to be enough to prove something since is not entirely confirmed and cannot be.

Based on all of this, I mainly see Tenko as a character that have been made just to develop another person aka, the smol magician, because from everything else, Tenko is pretty much the same because she didn't got a properly work on her character and based on everything we see regarding her, it feel like she was just there to be a living sacrifice for help another character to grow since the starting point. That's why i'm so indifferent about her. More could have done with her instead of being in one sided romance with Himiko almost every time. Her role in chapter 3 was nice but I just remember her for that.

Tenko is a very iffy character to me. On one hand, I don't hate her, but on the other hand, I can't like her.

Surprisingly, it's not because of the "boys are degenerates part" I found that to be pretty funny in all honesty, and I strangely never got annoyed by it. It also tells a lot about Tenko as a character, especially when you know the reason, which makes for a hilarious backstory. I was expecting something much darker, but I liked the comedic twist. However, she rarely contributes to anything in the plot besides one debate scrum and Himiko's development, and... She reminds me of Hiyoko in that regard, Mahiru/Himiko are awesome, but Hiyoko/Tenko aren't that interesting or likable. It doesn't help that they both are pretty rude, in Tenko's case to men (even if she is polite to them, sometimes). Also like Hiyoko, Tenko's death felt forced and her speech before she died seemed like a desperate attempt to redeem the character to those that hated her, and also made her death really predictable.

It feels like something is missing with Tenko for me, but I couldn't tell you what. She's not a bad character, she's just okay to me.

Honestly, if she tone down her undying hatred for men (even if that's a front) then I would like her character more. Clearly was there for the comic relief (especially those sprites lol) and the confidence boost for Himiko but not sure what to say afterwards.

I expected to hate Tenko quite a lot, but I ended up abjectly falling in love due to her later development in the game, the fact that I like one-note gimmicks, and you don't get more absurdist, over-the-top, and one-note than [d eg e n e r a te ma le s], which made it comedy rather than annoying to me, her design is attractive and she's pretty, and uh.

I'd Trade My Life For Yours was also a big factor influencing me to be more into her. Her doing the JP version's Third Person Person dynamic, which I find really cute. Her being a strong friend character, her flip-somebody-to-read-them gimmick, and how it was deployed.

EDIT: One thing I'll say specifically is that I'm really glad, and thankful, that they didn't give her hatred for [degenerate males] some 'legitimate' basis, like an actual horrible thing that happens to her, and thus going [well maybe it's okay]. The game goes pretty out of its way to portray it, like other silly, stupid beliefs, as silly and dumb. As others have observed, basically, at the core of it, it's a child-like enthusiastic, unsophisticated dedication to a thing she was taught by her 'parental figure', which is why she takes it to an extreme like 'cleansing the world of all males'. To me, making it so over-the-top actually makes it hit a lot lighter than if it was a more subdued, but 'legitimate' hate.

This is not related to Tenko but is it possible to shorten the time when we move on to the next character to discuss? There are lots of characters to go through and (this is bias but) it would take a long time to get to characters like Miu and Angie. However, I love this discussions so don't stop doing them!

[S]Hello!

I'm keeping it at its current pace of weekly for many reasons.

1) Even if initial comments and views drop significantly from a thread after the first day, looking at previous discussions there are still many posters reading and writing comments to a discussion for the entire week. This also allows more visibility over the twice a week model I did for DR3.

2) The twice a week model also struggled with consistency cause I like leaving each discussion up for the same amount of time, meaning I had to get each discussion up for 3 and a half day, making for weird update times. I could just give one discussion 4 days and the other 3, but that didn't sit well with me and just having it weekly is easier for me consistency wise, something people prefer over the very random updates the DR3 discussions ended up having.

3) I don't feel a particular need to rush things, as each character should get their spotlight and a week is fair. My prior experience of doing the discussions weekly for DR1-DR2 and biweekly for DR3 only further confirm these feelings. Especially since once the character discussions reach their end, they'll be complete with no more for a good bit. And at the end of the day, regardless of the order of discussions some characters have to be last.

Hopefully it's understandable, and I'm glad you're enjoying the discussions!

Thank you for replying back! I understand it more now, thanks for clarifying.

Tenko's over-the-top nature and intensity appealed to me in the same way Taka did in the first game. This makes her Ultimate Talent Development Plan scene with him all the more hilarious.

I knew what was going to happen after she gave her speech to Himiko about letting her emotions out, but this didn't make her death any less depressing. It's kind of funny in a way because there isn't another scenario in this franchise that had me experience such a wide range of emotions: sadness at Tenko's death, determination during the investigation and trial, anger when Korekiyo's motive was revealed, satisfaction when he was executed, back to sadness when everyone cried after the trial was over, and ultimately happiness to see Himiko survive despite the fact that I'm pretty ambivalent about her otherwise. Any character that can do this is pretty all right in my book. That and her, um, physical attributes, which I'll let Kaede explain, definitely don't hurt either.

I return to this topic a little too late, alas...but:

It's possible that Tenko's change and maturity in chapter 3 and her desire to save Himiko is due to how she remembered Himiko was precious to her due to getting her motive video, and this would also explain why Kokichi was so angry when it looked like Himiko would neglect Tenko even after her death.

Just...damn, that's really sad.

I spent /days/ trying to write something deep about Tenko—her connection to the game's themes of belief and truth, her selflessness and straightforwardness, her basically being the character Kaito wants to be, and how she was so completely doomed from the start.

I couldn't put it all into words. So instead, just here to say I love Tenko, I love her a lot, she's the best.

I honestly hate Tenko. Her "degenerate male" gimmick got old within seconds. She creepily obsesses over Himiko from the nearly the moment they met for no reason even though Himiko barely gives a fuck about her before she dies.

Also Tenko enables Himiko's bullshit during ch2's investigation which just pissed me off:

Shuichi: "Ah, Himiko we need to understand how your trick wor-

Tenko: "REEEE DEGENARATE MALE IF HIMIKO SAYS IT'S MAGIC IT'S MAGIC LEAVE HER ALONE REEEE!!!"

Haha Tenko is funny lol XD.

The only thing I can credit Tenko for is infiltrating the student council and asking Shyhara and coldsteel the hedge- uh I mean Maki, for help.

But she doesn't endear to me in any other way and I was really happy when Kiyockles S E E S A W E D her.

I haven't done Tenko's FTE's yet but I doubt my opinion will change on her.

The FTEs make it even worse.

Tenko is probably the character i think is the worst in V3. I hate Korekiyo more, but his is more for disappointing. Tenko sucked from day 1, and only gets worse the more you learn about her. Rare is the FTE so bad it makes the character worse. I'm just gonna paste what i said in another thread.

There is nothing good about Tenko's writing as a character

I do mean that. It might not sound that unpopular at first, but i want that thing to be interpreted as it's written. Tenko, from her very first line to her very last line, fails. She acts in a extremely stupid way that makes her more useless than Yasuhiro was in trials, is creepily obsessive over Himiko and i'm supposed to like it, gets seriously obnoxious with her meaningless mysandry, and her FTEs are some of the worst the series has to offer, only showing that there truly is nothing to like about Tenko, as every single one of her issues comes from her being a shitty retarded child who needed to be fooled and controlled by her master to become a barely functioning human being, and she's still that much of a dense fucking moron to this day. Tenko is so stupid, dumb and retarded that it makes her a very, very thin character, with less depth than a spoon.
I cannot like an idiot ball the character. Every single one of her actions is defined by her extreme idiocy. I can't stress this enough, and i mean it, it doesn't matter how much i emphasize and elaborate, people don't seem to grasp the scale of which i think Tenko is stupid, i mean every word of it so strongly when i say that Tenko is nothing but stupid. Maybe a comparison will do.
Tenko is just as unbelievably retarded and stupid as Tengan's plan in DR3 is.
Except that a plan is a plan, it's flawed and written terribly, but it's just a singular plot point. Tenko is an entire character, with scenes and traits and everything, and every single aspect of her is incredibly, immeasurably stupid, to the point where it completely ruins any semblance of good characterization she might have, because it's all stupid

Tenko should be glad Hiyoko exists otherwise she'd be the most unbearable character of the serie

Cute character. She comes off as annoying at first but as time goes on you sorta warm up to her "degenerate male" ways. Never thought I'd end up liking what is basically a feminist character. Also I like yuri so that's bonus points for her

I feel like people already stated my feelings about Tenko so I'll just write one thing that no one has mentioned.

I absolutely despise how they took away Tenko's lesbianism in her Love Hotel. It was really cool how she was just so unabashedly gay for the girls of the cast...only for Kodaka at the end to kind of be like "haha she secretly likes guys!" and yeah even if she's bi it still feels like we were robbed of a quality lesbian character.

I know I might get called out as an sjw tumblr yaoi Whatever for this comment but it's something I believe and stand by when it comes to Tenko's character.

I mean, Tenko doesn't really have a choice. She could still be lesbian, but the way the love hotel works is that she sees her ideal partner. The room literally dicks around with your mind.

we were robbed of a quality lesbian character.

"Quality"

Nothing of value was lost then XD

Tenko's a quality character though... She was so juvenile and fun and really helped people out with their problems chapter 3...

I was just joking around mate, you're free to think like that if you want. I respectfully disagree.

ah, gotcha.

I won't call you out or anything. I will just say that 'a girl who likes girls, and also ends up liking a guy' is not 'a lesbian turned straight', it's 'a bisexual'.

but I had mentioned that. "even if she's bi it still feels like we were robbed of a quality lesbian character"

Tenko ranks #9 on my V3 characters list. That doesn't mean I don't like her, just not as much as the other 8 characters above her.

Initially, I wasn't too sure about her man-hating shtick, it seems like something I would have mixed feelings for, but I still anticipate her to be significantly more than just that single trope. What I wasn't looking forward to her is the possibility that the community would spoil to her hell and back and treat her like a perfect human being to protect her from the controversy, which is something that already happened pre-localization (Thanks, vidya...)

Tenko is a character that needs to be understood as to what part of her should be taken seriously and what shouldn't. If you take her degenerate male crap seriously, then you probably won't get very far with her. She's definitely trying to be more than just that by showing legitimate concern to her male classmates and even trust them enough to help them even if at one point it leads to her death. I do enjoy that much about her, and sometimes I do get a good laugh out of her ridiculous "men"taphors.

But obviously, she doesn't win everyone forever. She's still pretty annoying in a lot of instances, but for me, it's for different reasons than most people. Again, I don't hate her "degenerate male" shtick so much, what I don't like is how stupid and hypocritical Tenko is in context of this trait. She complains about men being perverts and criminals, but she's a pretty blunt pervert herself on top of ignoring the fact that both killers she's seen have been females and still act like she can play around with her catchphrase. Again, not to be taken too seriously, but it get's pretty monotonous since it made her seem as if she hardly learned anything.

On the other hand though, she is the best schadenfreude material in the game. I just love watching her get screwed over by Angie when Himiko's attention gets stolen from her. I also just enjoy watching the part of the community just poke fun at how much of a tryhard she is and how she's just never gonna get what she wants due to her shitty attitude. In which case, getting Himiko's attention while she's still alive. I dunno, I hate Tenmiko so much that I just got a kick out of that lol.

Tenko Chabashira - Ultimate "Sport Anime Character"

i'm surprised nobody still talked about her talent, because i have read everywhere her "philosophy" is based on Aikido, of course i can't confirm this but i think they are correct, because when i think about Tenko i think about a sport anime character, i mean she follows most of tropes of the typical SAC:

is she tall and robust? yes

how much does she loves her sport? a lot; does she carries her sport's "philosophy" outside of the playing field? yes

does she tries to be another character(Himiko)'s best sis? yes; does she treats her sis like some kind of super-idol? yes; does she believes in her sis no matter what happens? yes, (it's almost a flaw)

her body and personality is the opposite of her sis? yes; but does she and her sis have at least a similar character trait? yes (being childish and a bit stupid)

does she have a rival(Angie)? yes; but does she respect her rival? yes; does Tenko tries to understand her rival? yes

is she quirky as hell? yes, she is a genki girl, is she also a idiot? yes

so well i think Tenko is what would happens if you put a SAC in a killing game, and i think she worked well

even her relationship with Himiko is taken out of a Sport Anime

-Genki teenager meets grumpy teenager who doesn't like show emotions, at first grumpy teen doesn't like genki teen, but after genki show they wants genuinely know grumpy better and they ensure grumpy can trust them, grumpy start to see genki isn't that bad, and after some character dev. genki and grumpy are best friends

their friendship starts to become a serious thing when genki says to grumpy "as long i'm here you're invincible-", not wait, i mean when Tenko says in Chap.2:

"I want to believe in her, no matter what! If I can't do that, then I'd rather just die!"

her friendship with Himiko is very strong, their bond is strong because Tenko can understand Himiko really well, and even Himiko is surprised, because Tenko can understand her she wants protect Himiko, she see Himiko's weaknesses and she think Himiko need help, she need her help, and Tenko herself will do her best to ensure Himiko's well being...

jezz, Tenko, are you Himiko's mom?

but the main problem is Himiko herself, we all know Himiko's lifestyle is unhealthy, and she hold her emotions, one of my favorite scenes from V3 is when Himiko can't hold her emotions anymore and tries to slap Kageyama, but Tenko understand her to well and stop her- wait i'm wrong again

i mean, one of my favorite scene from V3 is when Himiko enter Angie's Student Council, but Tenko understand her too well and tries to stop Himiko from following Angie, Tenko even tries to enter the SC, what a sis

My favorite scene with Tenko is the little speech with Himiko, and the my favorite thing is for us audience is just a nice speech, but for Himiko is a life-changing little speech, as she will base her playing style as setter- er i mean she will base her life style remembing there is nothing wrong with showing emotions

tl.dr; 10ko died for our memes

jokes apart, i really like Tenko but about all the V3 girls i like, she is the one i like the least. (my ranking is Kaede >> Kirumi > Angie > Himiko >Tenko >> Tsumugi>Miu(she is a good character, i just can't like for more personal opinions)>>>>>>>>Maki)

also i like we have finally a canonly lesbian character!! :D

Tenkaede>Tenmiko

Also god lord, please that miniskirt is TOO short, in some sprites you can even see her butt

she was one of my favorite characters while playing the game, but got overshadowed by the ones who lived longer. sad.

Tenko's a pretty alright character, enjoyable at times, but fell on her face a few times with some of the more important parts.

To start, my initial impression was negative like plenty others with her bias against men. I expected it to be treated as a joke, and while that's the case, Tenko's wasn't nearly as bad as I thought it would be since her case isn't very serious.

Tenko's beef against men is that they're 'degenerate', but I doubt that she would even understand the meaning of the word. She'll constantly go on about the... dangers (?) of men, but actual interaction have her being pretty cool. It's very rare that she comes off as rude or overtly unpleasant to the guys, being very comfortable around them, and treating them fairly without bringing it up too much. Herquestion of qhether Keebo was a girl or degenerate male says it all-she doesn't really have any ill will towards men, she was just raised to think that way by her master. it's silly, but any problems come from ignorance rather than malice, which is easier to deal with, and her 'degenerate male' schtick can be pretty funny at times. She tends to be very hot-blooded and outspoken, full of energy, dedicated to her martial arts, and even her friends, especially Himiko. This makes her a very enjoyable character, but there are a few sticking points that bug me.

One issue I notice about Tenko is that she can be kind of dumb with her world view. She interacts pretty casually with guys despite this supposedly harsh outlook on them, and almost never does much with it in serious moments. She's just an inch away from letting go of this, but she clings to it, insulting guys, intentionally or not. Her energy and name-calling can get kind of annoying, and while I think she's generally nice, her backflipping Shuichi during the FTE's is where her annoying side comes out, where she's assaulting a super passive nice-guy like Shuichi.

Next to that is he character interactions with Himiko, and I only like 1/3 of them. It starts off out of nowhere with little to no foreshadowing. Tenko randomly starts wanting to follow around and help Himiko, even getting excited to follow her to the bathroom (a quick moment, but boy did it taint the start of this.)

The start pretty forced putting, and it gets worse in the second trial. Himiko looks bad for stalling a trial just to cover up a magic act, but she has some precedence as a magician to keep her tricks a secret. Tenko doesn't! She defends Himiko's delusion and scolds you about calling her out on the fact that she can't teleport, making her look like an idiot and a sycophant towards Himiko.

After that came chapter 3 where things (sort of) come to a head. Tenko is at her most likable, showing a rare moment of clarity y infiltrating Angie's cult to try and break Himiko out of the brainwashing. Himiko wasn't wrong for wanting to avoid Tenko for acting weirdly interested, but she seems to appreciate her message of living life with all of your emotions put in the forefront, and her getting cut down right before a friendship comes to fruition does feel tragic.

Tenko's death feels good, but bugs me for a few reasons, starting with the fact that she dies RIGHT after giving Himiko a super deep and emotional speech. Convenient timing aside, it also feels like sh is cut down right before getting over her stigma against men in Shuichi's FTE. It wouldn't have been amazing character development (Tenko doesn't have a strong conviction here, so instead of wrestling with beliefs, it would come down to "sexism is bad guys"), but there would have been at least change.

As it currently stands, I'm not going to be surprised if anyone likes or hates her, and the FTE's will only strengthen your opinion on her rather than change it. TBH, she's okay, but could have been made great if she was taken a bit more seriously, and her friendship with Himiko was improved. As it stand, I can like her, but she can get obnoxious really easily, and makes me wish characters called each other out-if only because I want her to get roasted alive for not realizing her MALE instructor told her men are degenerate.

I thought I would hate Tenko at first because I saw that she hated males and such. Grew into really liking her and Tenko is a pure cinnamon roll who needs to be protected.

Tenko is kind of a mixed bag for me. Character wise she is a good character with a lot of moments. As a person I don't think I can stand her much. In the game Tenko is shown to be a girl that wears her heart on her sleeve and is not afraid to express herself. Admittedly pre-release I did not think much of her due to her man hating thing but as the story progresses I found her to be cute. She does care for others including men and had great moments of comedy. I also have to applaud her for helping Himiko and her development. Without her Himiko would be the same lethargic magic loli we all know.

Of course I still have my complaints regarding her. Starting with her childishness and how annoying it can be at times. By that I mean her whole reason for hating men. While she may not really hate men, the fact that the reason she hates men is because she misunderstood her master is just stupid.And then there is Tenko in Chapter 2. Personally my least favorite moments in this game stem from Chapters 2 and 4. Her childishness and refusal of basic logic or argument is just infuriating to me.Not to mention her blatent declaration for Himiko which is sweet but realistically is just stupid. One one hand you just met her and it's been like a few days, barely a week. On the other hand consider this, she was defending someone who had suspicions placed on them for good reasons and may have been the killer and she was OK with helping her to the end. I know that Himiko did nothing of the sort but that fact that she just threw herself onto a complete stranger is just stupid. Then there is Himiko and her relationship with Tenko. It's just creepy with how Tenko acts towards Himiko in the early chapters.

Finally I just want to touch on her design. I don't like it that much but at least it was consistent with her. Hell the artbook even states that she is a fashion disaster. But a tleast she looks nice with her outfit unlike a certain lunar asshole who can't even wear a jacket properly. But anyway I do find Tenko cute despite her kinda terrible choice in clothes.

Overall Tenko is kinda mixed for me. On one hand she is a good character that is supportive of others and does have good depth to her character. But as a person I don't see myself getting along with her.

Good character sadly ruin by people that don't do her FTE and try to define her with political crap

you can't turn a blind eye to political crap but it didn't influence many here. so many even disproved her hatred of men as she claims it.

Character Discussion #69 - Tsumugi Shirogane (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


i find tsumugi a difficult character to analyze.

for five of the game's six chapters, she's deliberately written in as featureless a way as possible, to the point where she's never once a central character in any of the mysteries. this is obviously a conscious choice by the writers, and i get why it was done. it's an interesting experiment, but i don't know that it's a particularly rewarding one. tsumugi is the first instance of a mastermind who's actually present for the entire game -- junko dies ten minutes into the first game (and then you find out it wasn't even her anyway), and neither junko nor izuru (depending on which you interpret as the mastermind) is present for the action of game two. in that respect, i can't help but think it would be a bit cooler if the mastermind was someone you had the chance to form an actual rapport with, a maki or a kaito, rather than one of the generic straightmen in a finale cluttered with them. there's no real sense of betrayal when it's revealed that tsumugi isn't who she said she was, because we never knew much about her to begin with.

so obviously, the vast bulk of tsumugi's development comes during the final trial, and even that i find very difficult to pin down. she mostly serves as the blank canvas upon which dr3's meta-narrative twist ending is projected. not only is that twist exceptionally convoluted, but the central thematic question of the game (and by extension tsumugi's character) is how much of it was true, and whether it's even worthwhile to parse that question to begin with. i find it challenging to coherently read tsumugi because there's no real way to determine how much credibility to give her confessions. it's impossible for all of what she says to be true (the cospox alone...) so any attempt to litigate her character basically means sitting down and exhaustively picking apart her many claims and determining individually whether we believe them, and that is a hefty freaking job that i am not up to. i'm sure one of you is though so have at 'er.

at a basic layman's level, what do we know about tsumugi that's most likely true? she's amoral and manipulative, even sociopathic. she functions as sort of a meta-commentary about obsessive fandom and the entitlement that accompanies it. and she doesn't seem to be very good at her job -- she fucks up the show a single round into the killing game by going rogue and snuffing rantaro, her studded tenure as the mastermind ends in the complete implosion of the program, and as far as her writing goes, she's kind of a hack. there are other things to pull -- it's interesting in a meta sense that the game's creators would depict themselves so heartlessly, and as so outwardly contemptuous of their audience -- but of course kodaka denies that any of this is the case (sure bro) and lots of people insist on holding the creator's stated intentions as sacred so entering into that discussion is probably a dead end.

so yeah. tsumugi shirogane, an enigma. i'm excited to read the other interpretations of her character because i've seen some great ones, but for me, the peculiar way she's written makes it impossible to figure out who the fuck she is.

I was thinking about how to give tsumugi a larger role (to make her betrayal more significant), but preserve her "plain jane" idea. I absolutely agree that the twist isn't that rewarding, in dgr1 junko was a victim and in 2 you thought she was dead. So those twists actually worked well imo. Smoogie was just kinda there, and apparently people guessed she was the mastermind because she didn't do anything (I'm not that smart lol).

I actually liked her plain jane deal because i felt like the v3 cast was so weird and she played the straight man by just acknowledging how weird everything was. It felt like a little nod towards the player, which I liked.

It was actually feels a bit like those moments in family feud where someone says some weird shit and Steve Harvey just makes a "what on earth" face to the audience. So with that in mind, I think smoogie would work really well as a game-show host kind of character.

On a comedic level, increase the moments where she comments on the weirder events of the game. Like instead of her joining angie's cult, she tries to emphasize how strange and suspicious it is in a joking tone. On a more serious level, have her guide shuichi without it being too obvious. Either present it as her having strong intuition (this is already a common trait) or she says incorrect things but there are kernels of truth that shuichi picks out.

In regards to the last trial, my big issue is that she drops the junko cosplay pretty early, but not the personality. It felt like she becomes a poor man's version of the overdone villain, rather than a new one with new motives. In line with the game-show idea, she should add very slight hints to the nature of the killing game and then have shuichi piece it together. Imo it's a wasted opportunity to have her explain a lot of the twist when we have an in-universe reason to get everything correct as the ultimate detective.

When she drops the junko cosplay, just make her...normal? I guess is the right word. She can just fall back on the "plain jane" schtick if they demand information and give shuichi just enough to figure it out. She can blatantly mock people's statements for the benefit of the audience. Just in general, instead of making her a cackling psycho, make her calmer and more composed. I also feel like that would make it more rewarding when you break that composure at the end. Imagine if Ryan seacrest slowly lost his shit because a contestant refused to sing on stage. You're basically flipping the spectacle to her instead of the students.

Tldr I think smoogie would be way more endearing to the audience and more interesting as a villain if her character was based on a game show host.

Tldr I think smoogie would be way more endearing to the audience and more interesting as a villain if her character was based on a game show host.

I'm calling it now, "evil (or at least antagonist) game show host" is going to become a trope soon. Mettaton was instance #1, now we have Tsumugi, and I'm sure many more will soon be inspired by real life events. After all, the entire world has been at the mercy of a malevolent game show host since January 21st, 2017.

The idea of "evil game show host" looooong predates Mettaton and Tsumugi.

You're right, but they're more prominent in my mind as major characters in excellent video games.

than one of the generic straightmen in a finale cluttered with them.

Maybe it's just me but I really liked Tsumugi all the way to the end even though it was really obvious she was gonna be the mastermind. Apart from her being hot AND weeb, not a very common combination, when compared to the cartoon-like characters, she always felt more like a real person, like her and Shuichi were just constantly going "haha these guys right".

The problem then is with the survivors. Because when everyone's life is on the line, only the crazier folks are gonna keep their facade (Angie, Korekiyo...), and none of them really... survive. So when you get to Ch. 6, she feels like just another serious investigator in a group of 3 more serious investigators (excluding Ultimate School Shooter Keebo-kun here for obvious reasons), and look, I love Tsumugi and think her FTEs are hilarious and give her good characterization, but she ain't competing with Maki.

I think it's pretty obvious that the writers knew this, and that's why she's the mastermind. Because if she wasn't, she was going to end up being Akane 2.0. Forever forgotten, and survivor by virtue of no one giving a fuck about her.

she fucks up the show a single round into the killing game by going rogue and snuffing rantaro, her studded tenure as the mastermind ends in the complete implosion of the program, and as far as her writing goes, she's kind of a hack.

Not really, if you take her claims that DRV3 is being aired to an audience as true, then her actions make sense. She needed someone to be dead because otherwise the show would be boring. She thought she had it with Kaede but what she didn't expect Kaede to be so fucking bad at murdering people. Like seriously, Kaede? You really think that ball's gonna hit? She then needed a solution, and there was really only one solution here: Making sure that ball fucking hit.

I would make the case that she's the mastermind because of a series formula.

The ultimate cosplayer talent exists so she can disguise as other people (which is brought up in the first case) and every DR game has a character relevant to the first chapter that relates to disguises in some way. Mukuro disguised as Junko and died in the first game, and the Ultimate Imposter was the first DR 2 victim. Both of them came back on the scene in the end of the game in chapters 5 and 6, and I feel Tsumugi is really just them continuing the formula, only this time the disguiser character is made the actual culprit this time.

only this time the disguiser character is made the actual culprit this time.

Then it's different.

I always found it funny how the parts of V3 that most people I talk to consider "the best" are the parts that Tsumugi had the least control over as the mastermind. She really is a pretty shit writer, huh.

She really is a pretty shit writer, huh

Kind of. Fan favorite characters like Miu, Kaede, Ouma and Shuichi originated from her, in universe at least. On the other hand, a good part of what made Shuichi and Ouma good is because they broke free from their "writing". Also, her gofer plot idea definitely sucked.

Also, her gopher plot idea definitely sucked.

nah man the gofer project is genius.

What's the biggest problem with DGR? They refuse to commit to actual relationships. Just stuff a bunch of hormonal teenagers in an enclosed space and imply that they need to preserve humanity, problem solved

Good thing she decided to force a murder when Shuichi and Kaede were like a day away from getting it on and giving Kaito meteor-AIDS to nuke any potential for him and Maki. Plus she bricked the most eligible bachelor in the entire series after like 4 days

ok yeah that plot sucked lol

I did in fact, grow to love the Truman Show plot of them being the last survivors of humanity. I'm big into Homeworld, Battlestar Galactica, Attack on Titan, Walking Dead, stuff where we're basically doing a species-wide Last Stand.

Even though it's extra brutal, and means all the previous casts are dead. It still ended up being a more merciful fate than what actually happened...

I actually did like some elements of the plot but not the big picture.

Don't really like the whole meteor deal, especially since it leaps from "natural disaster" to "MANKIND IS BEING PUNISHED DUE TO TALENTED TEENAGERS" . Imo it would make more sense if the RoD go undercover after the events of dr3, build up the cult, and then rise up a few years later when the world is rebuilt. Just slap on a biological weapon and "if you join you get the cure" and that sets the stage for the ultimate hunt.

The UH seems kind of backwards from the starts, apparently the whole world is going after the 16 students selected for the project. Considering that HPA brings in 10+ ultimates every year, there should be millions of ultimates worldwide. Instead of those 16 getting picked from the start, all the ultimates were being hunted and those 16 were all they could find before being forced to launch the shuttle.

They were pretty much setting themselves up to fail because they either did zero background checks or thought that an ultimate supreme leader, a cult leadet, an assassin, and a serial killer would fit in just fine. And if you want them to rebuild humanity, it's probably not a good idea to add a robot to the group.

There's some decent ideas but imo it's put together pretty sloppily.

I don't like responding to comments two weeks after the fact, but "Meteor AIDS" is worth telling you how funny that was.

Both inherently, and for the picture of Kaito getting it on with a giant meteor.

I'll kinda neglect focusing too much on Tsumugi the character, and focus more on Tsumugi the mastermind, just cuz I feel like talking about that a little more.

What I think sets Tsumugi apart from Junko, ultimately, is the lack of complete and total control she actually has over the game. You always got the sense that Junko had everything planned down to the letter, and she could account for any and all possible interference or hindrances and take care of them with little problems, but with the reveal of her despair fetish, it made sense why she would choose to ignore those. With Tsumugi, she has no such fetish, so any and all times a plan goes wrong is due to her own incompetence as a mastermind. She does state at the end that the game ending in favor of hope or despair ultimately doesn't matter to her or play a factor in whether the games will repeat themselves, but she still has a responsibility to keep the game going and making it more and more interesting for the audience, not just for her own love of Danganronpa, but also because it's kind of her job. Her attempts to seem like part of the group are...respectable at least. She's able to convincingly pass herself off as just another participant by being just social enough with the others, but never letting herself getting too involved with their relationships or their investigations.

We see multiple times throughout the game her plan going awry, the first noteworthy case being Kaede's influence on the group. Kaede's (nearly) unwavering charisma and optimism, while it had it's drawbacks on the rest of the group, was ultimately able to convince everyone not to play a part in the killing game, which forced Monokuma to introduce a time limit. And when that didn't work, Tsumugi was forced to dirty her hands, extremely early into the game too, just to ensure the game continued. Only two days in, and things were already quickly going south for her, and she felt the need to directly intervene. Things were sailing smoothly for Junko up until the end of Chapter 4. And of course, obviously this direct intervention leads into her being discovered as the mastermind.

Things go well enough for her in Chapters 2, 3, and 4, but Kokichi's Wild Ride threw a huge wrench into things, his machinations completely instilling a sense of total despair into everyone that would ensure they would never feel any desire to leave the academy, and thus no desire to play a part in the game. This, of course, is the exact opposite of what Tsumugi wants, so she fights dirty again, filling them with hope and motivating them to stop Kokichi. While this plan does work, although Kokichi and Kaito's plan does come close to succeeding, Shuichi and the others are privy to a few details that they really shouldn't be, namely that this killing game is being shown to someone despite the world apparently ending and all. Not only that, but in her rush to try and get herself out of the predicament Kokichi got her into, she accidentally throws in a bunch of contradictory memories that would naturally lead to being figured out.

Things completely fall apart for her in Chapter 6. Keebo losing his connection to the audience and thus free to make his own decisions on how to end the killing game, blowing everything to kingdom come, the rest of the group slowly uncovering more and more of the truth. On a reread, this is where it's easy to notice a certain interesting detail that I don't think many others caught onto? Or at least, not something I see brought up often, and that's the fact that Tsumugi and Monokuma, while having the same goals and intentions, are actually two separate entities. I notice this because, whereas Monokuma is happy to let Shuichi investigate as much as he pleases, without a care in the world, Tsumugi is pretty consistently looking anxious throughout the entire investigation, so clearly they feel differently about the events that are going on. And obviously Monokuma is still around talking for the rest of the trial after the reveal, so Monokuma has complete autonomy in this game. I've seen a couple of theories based around this idea that Tsumugi isn't actually the mastermind, but someone who was brainwashed into being given the role and personality of a mastermind, and is thus just another victim, but there's so precious little evidence in support of that I'm not really sure what to think about it. I guess it could be interesting?

So while she might cover it up with saying something like "it's all still according to script", I'm pretty positive the Danganronpa 53 reveal was absolutely not something that was planned to be a part of the killing game's script, and Tsumugi's own ineptitude ensured that. I think it's pretty amusing that the guy pretending to be the mastermind probably would make for a way more competent mastermind than Tsumugi does.

But I do wanna very briefly talk about her attachment to Danganronpa and fiction in general and her feelings on it, because I think it's pretty fascinating, even if I haven't quite gotten my thoughts sorted on it enough to really go in-depth about it. Mostly because I wrote this in like 30 minutes.

So while it's a common opinion, at least from where I've been, to declare that the rest of the Danganronpa games hold no meaning because they're all fiction, I think it's interesting that that's exactly the same approach Tsumugi has to it. While she does love to talk about her adoration of fiction and how it should be idolized, I think it's important to note that she doesn't really view fiction as anything more than mindless, baseless entertainment to lose yourself in, and that it ultimately doesn't hold any inherent value, this being the same philosophy she tries to convince the other students of, to feed into them the belief that their time in the killing game, and even their entire existence, holds no meaning beyond gratifying those that indulge in their suffering for pleasure. She does hold a bit of pride in her creations, but she doesn't see any value in them beyond what they were created for. To her, fiction is nothing more than escapism, which does tie into the apparent reason why the killing game has been created and gone on for so long, to give the people of a stagnated world something of interest to distract themselves from their inane lives. She takes a nihilistic stance to all of it, justifying stuff like the half-assed inclusion of the hope and despair themes as "what the audience wants so who cares", while Shuchi argues that would completely dismiss the suffering and trauma they went through.

That's really all I've gotten on that front, just something neat that I wanted to share.

And I suppose I should mention whether I think Tsumugi was lying, and how much she was lying about? Well, I think it's pretty safe to assume that a good 80% of what she said was correct, given how genuinely impossible it would be to set things up the way they were otherwise. But the game also seems to imply that whether it was the truth or not isn't something that matters too much, but whether their experiences in the game ultimately held any meaning, to themselves or others, so who knows.

All in all, while I don't think Tsumugi as a character is all that interesting, mostly because I haven't really thought about her a whole lot since finishing the game the first time, I think the actions she does take throughout the killing game do serve to better set her apart from Junko and make her a lot more distinct as a result, and I ultimately believe she's the best mastermind we've ever gotten. I think this concept of this hollow void of a person who defines herself by her mindless, obsessive love of fiction and how she places this one, defining aspect of herself on a pedestal without really appreciating it is genuinely interesting. We don't get a lot of elaboration on that, but I think it's fine. We get a couple hints about her background, like how she's probably a couple years older than the rest of the cast, how she got this job to begin with, and...having an incest kink? Guess we know where Korekiyo got his whole...thing from.

It's not a lot, but I feel knowing a lot about her would probably go against the point of her role in the story a little bit.

And, let's be real here, all that talk about being plain is some Grade A Bullshit. Not even taking into account the whole mastermind thing, girl's a real freak. Maybe even moreso than Angie.

So while it's a common opinion, at least from where I've been, to declare that the rest of the Danganronpa games hold no meaning because they're all fiction, I think it's interesting that that's exactly the same approach Tsumugi has to it. While she does love to talk about her adoration of fiction and how it should be idolized, I think it's important to note that she doesn't really view fiction as anything more than mindless, baseless entertainment to lose yourself in, and that it ultimately doesn't hold any inherent value, this being the same philosophy she tries to convince the other students of, to feed into them the belief that their time in the killing game, and even their entire existence, holds no meaning beyond gratifying those that indulge in their suffering for pleasure. She does hold a bit of pride in her creations, but she doesn't see any value in them beyond what they were created for. To her, fiction is nothing more than escapism, which does tie into the apparent reason why the killing game has been created and gone on for so long, to give the people of a stagnated world something of interest to distract themselves from their inane lives. She takes a nihilistic stance to all of it, justifying stuff like the half-assed inclusion of the hope and despair themes as "what the audience wants so who cares", while Shuchi argues that would completely dismiss the suffering and trauma they went through.

Definitely agreed with this. It's kind of ironic in a way, that the Ultimate Cosplayer, someone that lives by representing fiction, didn't see any inherent value in it beyond some cheap entertainment for you to lose yourself into.

All in all, while I don't think Tsumugi as a character is all that interesting, mostly because I haven't really thought about her a whole lot since finishing the game the first time, I think the actions she does take throughout the killing game do serve to better set her apart from Junko and make her a lot more distinct as a result, and I ultimately believe she's the best mastermind we've ever gotten. I think this concept of this hollow void of a person who defines herself by her mindless, obsessive love of fiction and how she places this one, defining aspect of herself on a pedestal without really appreciating it is genuinely interesting.

Too add to that, I find it very interesting that Tsumugi is a mastermind that can actually be relatable, unlike Junko, who just likes seeing people (and herself) suffer for the sake of it. Surely there are many people around the world who only consume fiction to escape from reality, they don't attach any value to it, any message. They just like to escape from the world they live in and immerse themselves completely in something more interesting without taking any actual experience from it.

[1/2] Tsumugi the character is just there, plain to see. Before the mastermind reveal, I was thinking of all the various Mario Party edits that could be made to create a bunch of "Tsumugi wins by doing nothing" gifs. What a shame.

I think the most interesting thing about her is to speculate (that's the key word) the bits we don't see and try to figure out her thought process throughout the game. I'm just going to go ahead and try to ramble now by picking out her off-camera path throughout the game, how this may tie into what we did see, and see how Tsumugi was a fan who destroyed the thing she loved. (I might go back and edit this later when I reread this as it's mostly lunch break ramblings right now):

PRE-GAME: Full disclosure, I consider the demo to be 100% canon. It's a dress rehearsal for the main show as they finalise characters. Hence Rantaro (Already established and basically ordered to play along) and K1-B0 (Twitch Plays Danganronpa isn't running at this point) sitting out of the trial while returning characters who feel a tiny bit off are there. It's also the only point where Kaede is declared the protagonist before she wakes up and declares herself that. I also think this is when those audition tapes were recorded: The characters are decided, so the victims are put back in civilian clothes, given a flashback light to make them audition, and then describe the character they had been given. Having the dead be willing participants will be an easier pill to swallow for an audience rather than innocent kids being plucked off the street after-all. Here, it's difficult to tell if Tsumugi is just another teen who will be given the Mastermind character later or if she's sat in the shadows and tweaking the characters herself up close. While an argument can be made for the former, the rest of this comment will assume the latter: She was one of the few willing participants, got her chance to be the Mastermind and was always "in charge".

PROLOGUE: The characters presumably wake up in pairs due to the limited amount of rooms available at this stage (though we only see Shuichi and Kaede). When Tsumugi wakes up, she realises immediately something is wrong. Her outfit is wrong, her partner is acting odd (They seem to remember being kidnapped but also introduce their new names) and one of the Kubs can be seen outside still trying to put stuff together. They've woken up early. Via Mamakuma, Tsumugi gets the Kubs (who are responsible for screwing up the clearing of memories with the Flashback Lights, mainly Monophanie to be blamed here it seems) to gather everyone in the hall to see if it's the same for everyone, but has to keep playing along as a student in case any of them realise it's a Killing Game and attacks her to escape. From here, we see the rest play out as the Kubs fix their mistake.

GAME STARTS: Tsumugi wakes up again, but decides not to stick around with her partner knowing the Kubs could have screwed up again. She goes to the Flashback Room to check the new instructions that have been set out by the Kubs to make sure they're back on script. Unfortunately, Kaede and Shuichi leave their room as she approaches so she has to look busy, just in case it doesn't work. She decides to play super-dumb to let them make the first move. Kaede is acting like the boisterous leader, Shuichi is the sulking detective. Concluding it's worked, she gets into character and talks with them to get them to go away. She checks the machine, all 15 characters are as they are, and she gets back to her front row seat thinking that is the end of her problems... though it's only the beginning.

FIRST KILLING:So here is where Tsumugi has screwed up. She's written Kaede to be almost too powerful and she's breaking script, evolving to something Tsumugi can't control (And she won't be the last either). Even in spite of the obstacles thrown at her, Kaede continues to convince the group to keep fighting. Rantaro meanwhile is piecing together his clues far quicker than Tsumugi might have hoped. She gets a message from her bosses that the people are getting impatient because no murder is happening. So she sets the time limit thinking this will be enough to both stop Rantaro for the time being and in turn get one of the fillers to make a kill. However, Kaede again stops this and then makes Tsumugi's life even more annoying, her protagonist is the only one who is willing to kill, but Tsumugi can also see that the plan is clearly not going to work. There is no other killing going to occur. She's stuck at a crossroads: She can either sacrifice her boss's handpicked protagonist that she has built her story around, or she has to have Monokuma go back on his word to kill everybody when the timer runs out. The game can't end in her mind, so she grabs a shotput and waits for her opening. Rantaro shows up in the library alone, and she strikes. In one fell swoop, Tsumugi has eliminated her two biggest trouble causers, and so she is sloppy in disposing the evidence, thinking that after a stressful start that maybe things can still work out.

COSPOX: We can't talk Chapter 1 Tsumugi without bringing this up. In the words of V3's resident pest, "It's a Lie!". The ending shows Tsumugi can effortlessly change clothes and even skin colour in the blink of an eye. When her room opens, it also shows she isn't actually shy around flaunting her body. There is no reason for her to ask Kaede to turn around just to put on the jumper other than to hide the skin colour change to mask it as cospox. It can be assumed that the bathrooms do not have security cameras in them (As this would spoil the Mastermind reveal for the people at home) so by doing it in the bathroom it also hides this switch from the audience.

SECOND KILLING: Tsumugi's higher-ups are considerably pissed. Returning fan-favourite Rantaro was unceremoniously killed off, heavily marketed protagonist Kaede is also gone, and there are small pockets who are suspicious about the method of her death. Tsumugi has to fix the mess she has created, starting with making sure Shuichi drops his character trait about his hat. And to her credit, Chapter 2 actually goes as planned despite the Kubs nearly screwing it up. Two filler characters die and play their characters out in full (any influence Kaede having had on either of them having been lost entirely), the murder is elaborate with no questions from the crowd about the truth, a new protagonist steps forward that feels like a natural fit. Tsumugi even starts to interact more with Gonta, hoping that her own popularity with the audience could rise if people see her as part of the cute glasses couple that the audience likes to ship.

Working too well however is a problem as it masks the underlying problem she has created. It makes her complacent. By making the sidekick detective the protagonist, she has created a dangerous character to contend with. Angie's devotion to a fictional God is making her hard to control. Trouble-causer Kokichi is also proving to be a pain. And possibly most annoyingly of all, the K1-B0 experiment is failing badly as the audience only seems to be interested in a tug of war contest between getting in Miu's pants or turning him into a 24/7 poop livestream.

Fortunately, she has a plan to turn the game on it's head and bring the fanbase back...

THIRD KILLING: Unfortunately, her plan fails.

Tsumugi has had it approved to bring back an old contestant, a never before done stunt in the series. Studies have shown Kaede has a twin sister (yes the theory is assuming this wasn't as big a lie as we might believe) so Tsumugi proposes a ritual that could be used to put Kaede's character on to her twin and act like the real one is back alive. The bosses love it. The plan gets put in to place. Knowing they need some peace time to pull this off and to try and get the rogue Monodam AI to chill out a little, they even let him take charge for a bit. There is still one issue however: Angie. Her attempt to stop the game seems perfect for the time being, and Tsumugi and K1B0 can infiltrate the group to get her to bring back Kaede. But she refuses. And she refuses. Angie is refusing to listen to anyone but her god. Fine, thinks Tsumugi, we'll just flashlight her so that Angie thinks her god is telling her to bring back Kaede. Except Angie just breaks the light instead. Ah. Tsumugi continues to try and get close, but Angie is keeping herself locked away to work on the summon. Tsumugi

However, with her attention on the summoning plan, she foolishly overlooked a key plot point: Chapter 3 was when she penned in for Korekiyo to do his seance murder against one of the girls, and typically after struggling with so many characters going out of control it's the one she spent the most time on that ruined her this time. (Look, the girls got some kinks. She just went a little overboard by having multiple characters share it this season). Dumb luck would mean that Angie would walk in as the plan is being prepared, and an obsessed Kiyo would eliminate her to make sure that he finishes his part of the script. Tsumugi ends up with a Chapter 3 double murder (often panned by the audience), Tenko's character arc suddenly rushing to it's conclusion out of nowhere, she's driven what ends up being the most popular Monokub to suicide, and worst of all, a kidnapped Kaede twin that she's lost the window to bring back. Angered, her bosses take the motivation away and announce they've lost faith. They're even getting Monokuma to make more jabs at her now as punishment. Tsumugi's dream job is unravelling into a nightmare. She just wants to tell her story. Kokichi is trying to stir the pot some more and is toying with her. This is just angering an already pissed off Mastermind more...

[2/2] FOURTH KILLING: Kokichi thinks he's being smart, but Tsumugi can see all the things he is planning. However he is slippery and may know more than he's letting one. He is a nuisance and has to be stopped. And with the script already out of the window two times by now, it's time for Tsumugi to come up with a new Chapter 4 death. Fortunately, despite the bond of the group, there is still a loner in the form of Miu. A flashback light can turn Kokichi's greatest ally into a would be killer out of thin air, killing two birds with one stone. Who cares if the case will be easy when the two students who pose the greatest risk to ending the game are both gone.

Well, Kokichi does. He immediately clocks on to Miu's sudden change of motivation and he's easily able to tell he's in danger. Now, I think Kokichi deals with this all in the worst way possible, but it does achieve the same end result: Tsumugi has failed to eliminate her biggest threat in the game. This is a double whammy for Tsumugi as she also loses Gonta, the only character keeping her relevant to the audience. In her rage she's also killed off the remaining Monokubs, sick of their failures. The bosses will chew her out for that but she's beyond caring. She's still got some cards left in her hands: Himiko is developing nicely, the Kaito and Maki storyline is still playing out, K1-B0's Miu distraction is now gone so he can actually behave himself, and perhaps most importantly, despite all that has gone wrong even Kokichi doesn't know who she really is.

But... she's still ignoring Shuichi...

FIFTH KILLING: Little to be speculated here, she completely loses control at this point. She's let Kokichi go on too long, and he springs his plan into action. Her own pawns are strong enough that she's able to win the battle against him in the end, but he would go on to win the war. To fight back against Kokichi, she had to submit to executive meddling. She relented and tied her story into the Hopes Peak story, but with no passion behind repeating that story again she allows some obvious plot holes to slip through (You can perhaps translate some bitterness and hesitation in her Junko the 53rd portrayal when she's going YEAH IT'S ME AGAIN WOOP DE DOO). She relents and brings back the Monokubs.

SIXTH CHAPTER: And so the final battle takes place, and Tsumugi's story comes to a close. The four remaining survivors aren't behaving as they should be. They figure out it was here quicker than she imagined. She barely has any counter other than to just try and confuse them and then just ramble on about backstage stuff to guilt them all into despair. She destroys the Kubs again. It's hard to imagine that even if Shuichi hadn't stopped Danganronpa that the audience would have been satisfied with the ending and that Tsumugi would ever be allowed to be the mastermind again after what would have been a disastrously run game that would have no doubt made several Top 10 Worst Danganronpa Seasons lists in-universe. Even in the final chapter people were more interested in seeing the old characters again or complaining that Kaede died.

At the start she tried to craft a twisting and gut-punching story of romance and lost love (We can assume this to have been Tsumugi's genre based on the Love Motel existing and the Salmon mode being a Dating Show). However, she made her characters too multi-layered that they eventually rebelled against their creators vision. In the end, barely any of her original story remained and she was stuck trying to piece together anything, even going meta and exposing behind the scenes secrets. Her lies get sloppier (We even saw ourselves that how she said they reacted in the Prologue never happened). She stopped caring at the end about keeping to the script, she just wanted to break these damned idiots that had ruined her story. And she still lost. She was abandoned by her partners and fans. She didn't even get a theatrical death, she was simply crushed amongst the wreckage with nobody even watching her final moments. Her dream was to one day run the Killing Games. Her reality was that she destroyed it.

this is hilarious and deserves love. i especially think of this

a disastrously run game that would have no doubt made several Top 10 Worst Danganronpa Seasons lists in-universe

all the time. tsumugi would be reviled by the reality tv forum dwellers.

Tsumugi is one of the few characters in any media that I can't wrap my head around. Is she a good character in my book or at least, a good villain? Thinking about her gives me a lot of conflicting emotions and I'm not sure whether it's in a good way or a bad way.

Basically, there are three parts to her character imo: one part that I quite like, one that I could do without but have learnt to accept and one that completely brings her character down for me, making me close to hating her as a character, especially in retrospect.

So what I enjoyed about her is her persona as Ultimate Cosplayer. This was mostly elaborated in her FTEs which I personally enjoyed because as an anime fan who frequents cons, I find them really relatable, even if I'm not a cosplayer myself. I think that was exactly the point of her FTEs: to make her relatable to the typical anime and by extension, Danganronpa fan which may have led to the unfortunate implications following the reveal. I also really like the constant references she made. I have a weakness for characters who do this (how many weaknesses do I have?).

Initially, when I heard about her talent, I was also low key hyped. Because: 1) when I was younger, I had this idea for a pre-despair fanfic (which obviously didn't get pass the prologue because I'm a lazy ass) which features an Ultimate Cosplayer who would reveal herself to be Junko/the mastermind…I actually can't believe it became canon. I should have finished that fanfic smh. 2) As a result, I was aware of the meta possibilities of her talent. It's what I come to expect from Kodaka with characters like Ryouta as an animator in an anime and Chiaki as a gamer in a game. So I'm calling it now, next installment would have a TV or reality TV-related talent like maybe Ultimate Voice Actor or Script Writer or something.

Now, for what I could do without: her mastermind persona. I didn't really mind it as much even if this is probably one of the major reasons she got the trait I dislike. I mean, someone has to be the mastermind. What was unfortunate was that she was a main game mastermind which had to live up to the craziness of Junko…so what did she decide to do first after the reveal…dress up as Junko. Urhhhmmm yeah, great way to set yourself apart. I get the meta humor of ‘Junko the 53rd' but unfortunately, it was at the expense of Tsumugi's presence as the mastermind. I'll give it credit for being kind of funny though and I quite like her quick cosplaying gimmick. It just made the 6th trial such a bizarre and surreal experience, and I felt it lived up to the giant Junko gimmick in SDR2. It was also a cool way to explain the twist and kept it from just being Tsumugi spouting exposition, then, showing some videos, and then, more exposition.

However, it's a bit unfortunate her cosplaying talent gets used in this manner. It just leads to so much unfortunate implications about cosplaying and the DR fanbase, in general. I'm surprised Kodaka didn't realise that this was inevitable given the twist and Tsumugi's talent and interests, especially since he had always considered the meta of his works. I believe that he actually did but was so caught up in the idea that he just went with it. Same reason he went off and made DR3. I guess I should give him props for trying to carry out such a risky concept.

Finally, to why I dislike her: Isn't it plain obvious? What's to like about a plain background character like her? Did I mention that Tsumugi's plain? Just in case, you didn't read it the first time…Tsumugi's plain.

Okay, I may be a tad harsh on this particular character trait of hers but it made her soooo boring and soooo suspicious, especially since she keeps bringing up that trait. I know DR characters generally have this problem ("Degenerate Males!" "SHITTTTT!""Stepping Stone of Hope!") but I feel most of them do unique things with their distinctive traits whether it's for comedy or plot relevance purposes even if they can be annoying. How does Tsumugi's plainness work into the main plot besides her dumb puns (Haha funny. You're plain and you use the word ‘plain' a lot)? She's the mastermind and it's her cover. You only know this by the end and have to sit through 5 chapters of plain boring Tsumugi who's plain btw. Way to divert suspicion from yourself by specifically denying that you're suspicious. I'm sure quite a few people could guess what was up when she kept on living without much plot relevance and significant character development.

And that's my main problem with her, not only did her plainness make her relatively boring compared to every other DR character but also made the mastermind reveal more predictable imo. Why oh why did Kodaka make her so suspicious? The mastermind reveal is one of the most anticipated reveals in the game and Kodaka basically gave us almost no twist. WHYYYYY? Note: I know some people may like this plain trait as I admit, it does make her a bit more relatable. I don't like to encourage hate towards any character so I'm glad she has some fans. I'm just not one of them, that's all. And for those who didn't predict the twist, good for you.

Stray thoughts and conspiracy theories:  

Tsumugi as the writer and part of TDR: Just like her character, I can't actually wrap my head around this detail. It's just so weird like everything with that ending. I'm sure if this wasn't DR and the matter was taken more seriously, I may be able to form a more concrete opinion on the whole thing. I get that she could control their actions via the flashback lights but it just seems so…convenient? All I know she's a pretty bad writer if she thinks rehashing parts of DR1 and SDR2 was a good idea. If I was part of the V3's outside world, I'll call it quits after the 53rd season too…sweats nervously as I anticipate a new DR main game  

Tsumugi as a fictional character who's aware she's fictional. I find this part of her a little more fascinating. Is Tsumugi Shirogane a fictional character herself? Is her TDR personality and mastermind persona completely separate from her plain and friendly persona? It could explain cospox (one of the dumbest DR things ever. Up there with Super Saiyan Kiyondo). She got it because her fictional classmates would be real to a fictional Tsumugi. But then, who's the real Tsumugi? Ok, I got confused again.  I think it's best leaving this to the expert conspiracy theorists.

Her role as the first trial killer: I liked that she was a killer that escaped execution. That was something V3 did that was different from previous installments. At first, it rubbed me in the wrong way because it meant Kaede was innocent and implied the game was too afraid to corrupt her ‘pure waifu status'. I've grown to accept it though and appreciate it as one of V3's good twists. Kaede still attempted murder and she didn't get away scot-free…her brutal execution was a bit too excessive for her crime and I think that was enough to make me pity her fate. Besides that, I like the small details that knowing Tsumugi's role gives upon rewatch. Like the reason she got away with her faulty cospox alibi was because she showed it to Kaede who was already convinced who the killer was…that was pretty smart.  

I'm curious about her scene with Shuichi in her research lab. That's like the one time in the main game where she seemed genuinely sinister (I'm not counting the nail painting scene which was more humorous) and I'm sure there must be some foreshadowing then.  

The one thing that confirms that the V3 world is messed up outside for me is that they could tolerate Junko being the mastermind 53 times as the title Junko the 53rd implies. Surely, the darkest timeline.  

Her rewatch value: Unlike with Kokichi, Angie and Kaito, my feelings for Tsumugi upon rewatch is typically anger or annoyance. I didn't really care for her at first but knowing she's the mastermind really changed my opinions on her. I think that's another unique thing that V3 did: have a mastermind actively participate in the game. Too bad she had to act all plain suspicious. Tengan was better in this aspect imo. I wasn't really suspicious of him until the episode with his video. He did die early though.

I don't see a whole lot of Tsumugi cosplays out there compared to other V3 characters. Granted, I don't go looking for them but I don't go looking for Kokichi or Shuichi cosplays too. I wonder if this was a result of the unfortunate implications I mentioned. Hhhmm…could be because she isn't that popular, I guess.  

Conclusion: I think my main problem with her is that I feel there's a huge disconnect between her personas. Her plain and mastermind persona are so different from each other while both preventing her from using her cosplaying talent effectively (such a waste). They should have made her events with Kaede and Shuichi more cosplay related imo. It could have put her passion in a better or at least more ambiguous light as she'll get to showcase her talent in light-hearted events compared to just in the 6th trial as the mastermind. Instead, what I got from her really tempts me to declare that if she's not a bad character, she's at least a bad villain because even after all her exposition, I still don't really understand her and her motives. Sigh...at least she's a good character to study and think about. I'll give her that.

It could explain cospox (one of the dumbest DR things ever. Up there with Super Saiyan Kiyondo).

so in the spirit of discussion: what do we think is the deal with the cospox? like from a meta perspective, why was it included? the only things i can think of are 1) at least at that point in the game, it removes from suspicion the idea that any murderer could just be tsumugi in a costume, thereby eliminating that tedious aspect from every class trial, and 2) it's a plot point that's impossible to completely reconcile and muddies the waters between truth and lies even more, not that the game needs any more of that.

beyond that, though, i'm stumped.

Honestly, I try to forget about cospox as much as I can because I find it stupid and very flawed as evidence. At least Kiyondo wasn't really plot relevant. I agree with you that it's very convenient to the main plot. However, while it does make her less suspicious at first, due to the nature of the evidence, it doesn't completely remove her from suspect. So I guess cospox was needed as a point of reference for when the first case was brought up again during the final trial...?

Related to your second point, I think cospox may also work as foreshadowing to some extent. The idea of cospox puts an emphasis on fiction and Tsumugi's perception on fiction so it fits with V3's themes well. It's probably one of the few (if not, only) instances in the game besides the last trial where evidence used in the class trial was directly related to fiction somewhat. Now that I think of it, it could just be Tsumugi flashing a Flashback Light to Kaede. So basically, it was an early indication of Tsumugi's reliance on fiction to mastermind the killing game... I think? Not that it would be obvious the first time playing.

I'm not sure what I'm getting at with this actually. I just thought of this right of the bat so I'm really just typing as I think.

I'm curious about her scene with Shuichi in her research lab. That's like the one time in the main game where she seemed genuinely sinister (I'm not counting the nail painting scene which was more humorous) and I'm sure there must be some foreshadowing then.  

I'm curious about this never found either scene sinister, exactly, though I do think, looking back, they're probably the most sincere we've seen her (or maybe "truthful" would be the better word?)

But I can't recall anything that stands out to me as being foreshadowy or dark in those scenes, if you could elaborate? (It's also been a while, so it's possibly my memory is just faulty!)

From what I remembered, the camera angle and her expression in the CG and what she was revealing at that moment was slightly discomforting for me. Somehow, she seemed like a different person than the Tsumugi that I was used to? And the way she smiled while recalling her rough past seemed almost unnerving? I'm basing on memory myself tho so I'm not really sure if this is merely a case of my mind intensifying my feelings in retrospect. But maybe you're right...maybe she was just being sincere and I was reading too much into the moment. Maybe my suspicion of her screwed with my overall impression of her as I played the game.

I guess i'll have to look back at that scene to get a clearer idea in my head. I may be able to explain my feelings better or change my mind entirely then

with dr it's always a toss-up if something like 'girl grins while recalling a rough past' is meant to be genuinely discomfiting or if it's just the game makers being weird and pervy.

Yeah the scene did give this weird mix of fanservice and unsettling to me. I think Tsumugi having the kind of creepy DR smile (kinda like Sayaka did) may have helped making it more discomforting? Now that you mentioned it, I realise DR does do this often but it's usually for the crazies (?)...which makes sense considering who Tsumugi is.

I'm curious about her scene with Shuichi in her research lab. That's like the one time in the main game where she seemed genuinely sinister (I'm not counting the nail painting scene which was more humorous) and I'm sure there must be some foreshadowing then.

You're talking about the one where she acts as a bartender right? I also thought that was pretty weird and an interesting bit of characterization but I didn't think it was downright sinister...

Yeah sinister maybe too strong a word. Maybe unsettling would be better but idk?

Tsumugi is my favorite girl in V3.

Her personality in the first 5 chapters was really great in my opinion. She was a smart, sensible person who cared a lot about everyone else and had a few funny quirks with her love of anime. I quickly grew to love her character.

And then Chapter 6 came.

It took me a few days to get through the shock and betrayal(and to lament that a character I looked up to as a big sister turned out to be the mastermind...again...at Junko...)

After thinking over it though, Chapter 6 made me love her character even more. I thought that she was a great mastermind, and that the ending of V3 was brilliant in general.

Also, I've been having a really fun time writing a redemption arc for her, so that helps too.

If you want a quick way to redeem her. All the memories of her being about of the DR crew were faked just like everyone else's personalities. Since Tsumugi had the most normal personality in the game through 1-5 it's safe to assume that they didn't change much from her actual personality.

That would be easier, yeah, but I wanted to make her genuinely and gradually change from her villainous nature to feeling guilt and regret over everything she did, and eventually overcoming it and becoming a much better person. With this, it takes a long, long time for her to redeem herself, but I think it would be more satisfying as well.

tsumugi best girl (after himiko) don't @ me. i feel like i'm the only junkofag that likes tsumugi. i'm just extremely fond of everything about her. her writing on a base level is so simple, that it makes her so memorable and amazing. i'm not gonna type out each and everyone of my theories here, but something that i can say for sure is that her ftes were golden. some might say they were bland, but if they weren't bland, they'd feel out of character. i connected and related to her vaguely despite not being a cosplayer, even when kodaka specifically interviewed cosplayers for how to write tsumugi's character. that is because she felt like a real human being, 'unpopular opinion' but danganronpa characters are all realistic, despite not being realistic at all, if you went though the same childhood and circumstances of let's say gundham than you'd for sure act exactly like him, but with tsumugi, her realism is already there from the start, most humans aren't edgy chuuni's, but most humans are plain and forgettable, and most danganronpa fans like weeby anime shit. connecting with a character is something i've never done so easily, most professional writers would never make such a bare bone character, that makes tsumugi so special to me.

pre-chapter 6 tsumugi was just nice, as seen in chapter 4 when she defended gonta (mugi x gonta could've been the best otp of v3 smh), but that was just a persona. people seem to think truth, lies, faith and logic are the only themes of v3, but a huge one is hiding under a mask. this is very clear with tsumugi. in chapter 6 she's like a whole different person, she killed rantaro (and kaede if you're annoying), is the mastermind, wrote everything about the v3 cast, is just a fucking insane bitch, things that plain™ tsumugi would never do... yet... it was pretty fucking obvious. after i read fan translations of v3 before it came out in the west, i asked people who they thought would be the mastermind, some shuichi's, some kaede's, some junko's, but most of them said tsumugi. why though? there would be no reason for her, plain™ ol' 'mugi to be the master mind she does nothing to the story and is just comic relief. well, that's why, it's like persona 4 killer spoiler since it was the first example that came to mind, when there's no suspicion around a person, you suspect them. this isn't bad writing, it's just how our brains work, but with tsumugi, i can't help but feel it was intentional because everything 'bad' about her writing (coughjustherplain™cough) was intentional. she was written to be really plain™, so i see no reason why she wouldn't be written as an inversely suspicious character. all that little effort yet effort reminds me of why i love junko so much, her blatantly garbage yet somehow great character. i think this is why i love chapter 6 tsumugi as much as pre-chapter 6 tsumugi.

i don't really feel like analyzing her character, it is possible, and i feel strong about an interpretation about her free time events/salmon mode, but i just don't have the time for it, and it's just and interpretation. plain™ tsumugi is just a lovely character she's boring and realistic and nice and a psychopath and makes a lot of references. some people might be annoyed by her, but in my opinion, all her 'faults' make her so special to me.

just plainly a best girl.

i know nothing about Persona 4 but

that's why, it's like adachi in persona 4 (vanilla, not golden), he's the only supporting character not to get a social link, most of the time, he's dojima's terrible assistant, he does nothing plot relevant, unless you count that thing with him arresting rise's stalker that's there to show you how terribly incompetent the police are, he's the most un-killer like character (besides nanako), yet that's what gives him all the suspicion, when there's no suspicion around a person, you suspect them.

isn't this a spoiler?

i kinda assumed most people would know because everybody knows who the killer is. it's been spoiled to death so i just used him an example. i still thought it was okay to spoil since the game's been out for 10 years. i'm sorry for spoiling you.

Judging from all the polls and surveys that had been taken, Tsumugi is probably the most hated V3 character. While this may have to do with the fact that she is the mastermind who is evil and the person who was behind the killing game there are also a bunch of people who think that she's really boring and badly written. For me, her writing is perfectly fine. I like how despite being the SHSL cosplayer she is pretty mundane. Her commentary of the situation feels very humane and the way she becomes a straight man to everyone's nonsense is entertaining to say the least. It almost makes her look a lot more mature and older than the rest of the cast. Her references are hit and miss (cause it's references) but it still manages to make me wince occasionally.

People seem to complain about how her personality being generic, the fact that she doesn't help in trials and the mastermind reveal becomes obvious because of it. But all of these complaints seem very groundless to me. Her personality is totally fine, she has one of the most human and normal reactions to a situation than any of the other cast. It's way better than a girl who only shows positive emotions or that other girl who manages to show two types of emotion that being boastfully aroused and cowardly aroused. In fact her personality would have been deemed as good in a series other than danganronpa. And even if she doesn't help in trials I'm fine with it cause as I have said before. If your usefulness is going to make me hate you more why bother being useful(talking about Miu)? And besides she is the mastermind. If she starts giving crucial hints or evidence then the people of the outside world will complain. And the mastermind reveal was never meant to be directed at the player. It's a twist that just supposed to make sense. I mean if Keebo was the mastermind that would have been stupid because he fought the exisals. Maki being a mastermind is stupid because that means her love for Kaito was a lie( and what will her actions in ch5 become?). Himiko being the mastermind is also stupid because it will undermine her character arc entirely. And V3 has to have an active mastermind so "they forgot their memory of being the mastermind" wouldn't even work.

And it's not like everything has to be a giant shocker. One of the misconceptions people have with Danganronpa is that people expect it to be completely unpredictable and full of crazy plot twists. Nobody expected Kodaka to be stupid enough to put Junko as the mastermind again in DR2. That was surprising and while the ending of V3 is surely a big shocker it's there for the themes and making the mastermind grey. And speaking of mastermind I cannot believe so many people don't like Tsumugi/ Team danganronpa/ the outside world as the mastermind. The reason it surprises me is because the bar for the main villain/mastermind of DR has been really really low since till now. Junko is a terrible villain who just jumps out of nowhere and says that she did everything because she was bored and she thinks despair is unpredictable but that doesn't make sense because what could be more predictable than brainwashed psychopaths running around and killing people? Compared to that Tsumugi has a goal, she has aspirations, she has a personality and most importantly she has a moral high ground that not many villains can achieve. And out of all the posts and comments regarding V3's ending this part felt like it wasn't discussed nearly as much as it should be.

Everyone in the world wanted a killing game and the participants themselves desperately wanted to become one with DR and die a glorious death or win it all, leaving themselves in history. TDR and Tsumugi felt justified for what they were doing because they created everyone's personality from scratch themselves and the fictional lives of the participants were the property of team danganronpa. I don't know about you people but I honestly think this is the most morally justified killing game I have seen in a work of fiction. So simply brushing off Tsumugi as some evil chick is ignorance at it's finest imo.

We're probably heading down with a little bit of speculation here but i believe Tsumugi is a product of V3's society. Her addiction to anime and moe culture and the fact that she often spouts anime nonsense could easily be explained by the outside world's obsession with their hobbies. There is a lack of financial pressure on the citizens thus most of them end up spending a lot of time dedicating themselves to whatever that is fun and entertaining (which is anime and games). And if everything the game revealed at the ending is true then it's very likely that V3's society also does not deem human life as something important since they have a highly advanced technology that can make fake memories which in return makes it possible to create artificial beings. This is also the reason why Tsumugi doesn't care about her own life as well as the life of the other participants of the killing game. What is the point of life if you can't achieve something someone hasn't already achieved? and no matter how hard you try you just realize that you are a husk that can be manually created and recycled.

However, that does not mean Tsumugi dislikes the people in the killing game. In fact in ch6 Tsumugi turns back into her usual Otaku, normal girl persona after the voting ends. And when Maki asks her why Tsumugi refused to vote she says that they are her friends and she doesn't want to leave them behind. There was simply no ulterior motive for her to say that which lead me to believe that she did care about everyone (except Rantaro maybe cause she was very angry at him in the Kaede nailbrush scene. Probably due to him interfering with the game with the survivor perk or being from the 52-nd game) . And her caring about other people is quite different from how normal people care about one another. To her, everyone in the killing game is like her favorite anime characters. She watches them die and she cries, says that the things that are happening is awful. But deep down she knows that she is enjoying the depravity and the despair... just like those people who like to watch Korean drama and cry themselves to sleep. She enjoys to mourn the death of her favorite characters so when Kaito, Gonta and Kaede died she cried that was most likely real tears.

Tsumugi herself is like a spectator. Even if she was given the mastermind role she could have still gone and made a lot of strong bond with the other characters but she doesn't. Well, she might have been afraid to blow away the mastermind role but I also believe this is due to her own belief of being "plain". Tsumugi is the only nonfictional character in the killing game and since she loves danganronpa a lot she doesn't deem herself worthy enough to have a strong bond with anyone. Just like how Nagito liked to talk trash about himself and glorify everyone as the beacon of hope, Tsumugi likes to call herself plain and asks you why you decided to hang out with someone as plain as her when you try to do FTE with her.

Which brings me to my next point. Tsumugi from chapter 1-5 is probably her real personality and the crazy mastermind persona she showed in ch6 is most likely false and she is simply roleplaying as an evil person in order to become a satisfying villain to beat and to trick keebo and the others into choosing Hope in the voting. It doesn't make any sense for Tsumugi to suddenly revert back to her otaku personality in ch6 if the crazy personality felt comfortable to her. There is also the simple fact that acting differently from their original personality drains a person a lot and they will probably end up throwing their mask away at some point. But Tsumugi never struggled with that from chapter 1-5 and when Shuichi decides to sacrifice his life in ch6 Tsumugi immediately drops the crazy act and turns into an angry manager.

And what I simply love about ch6 is that it revealed that no matter how many anime Tsumugi watched, how many games she played, she never actually understood and respected the power of fiction. Fiction was simply escapism and entertainment to her and even if it became such a big part of her life to the point she is willing to die for it, she still didn't realize the true beauty of how fiction can affect other people.

All in all. I like Tsumugi, I know she isn't perfect but as a mastermind, as a character and as a waifu material I simply cannot complain about what we got.

And her caring about other people is quite different from how normal people care about one another. To her, everyone in the killing game is like her favorite anime characters. She watches them die and she cries, says that the things that are happening is awful. But deep down she knows that she is enjoying the depravity and the despair... just like those people who like to watch Korean drama and cry themselves to sleep. She enjoys to mourn the death of her favorite characters so when Kaito, Gonta and Kaede died she cried that was most likely real tears.

you know, i really really love this way to look at her. it's a way more understandable approach to why she was generally so passive as she was more of a spectator who just enjoyed seeing her fictional ideas play out in front of her. she has reached a level of apathy where she cannot even see them as fellow students but more as her favorite fictional characters in her beloved danganronpa.

Everyone in the world wanted a killing game and the participants themselves desperately wanted to become one with DR and die a glorious death or win it all, leaving themselves in history. TDR and Tsumugi felt justified for what they were doing because they created everyone's personality from scratch themselves and the fictional lives of the participants were the property of team danganronpa. I don't know about you people but I honestly think this is the most morally justified killing game I have seen in a work of fiction. So simply brushing off Tsumugi as some evil chick is ignorance at it's finest imo.

None of those factors - the eager audience, the callousness of their former selves, the fact that they were created - in any way lessen the moral repugnancy of the killing game. They're not even relevant to the discussion. Which, really, is Shuichi's main argument during the finale.

But it's the public's majority that determines which actions in their culture are morally repugnant. Just look at the real world, how different countries have completely different views on what is taboo and what isn't.

Right and wrong are about more than just consensus. Slavery was still wrong before we abolished it. If 1000 people all vote for an innocent person to die, it's still not okay to kill that innocent person. I could multiply examples, but history (and the present, for that matter) is full of instances of very evil things being very popular at some point.

But were those events in history, at that point in history presented or perceived to be in the wrong? No they weren't, they were the norm at the time. That's the point I'm trying to make. A century into the future, people can look back and think that the things we do that are totally acceptable right now, are completely deplorable from their perspective. What if events somehow caused the entire world to go vegetarian and eating meat became an absolute taboo? They would look at the majority of people nowadays and condemn them. Meanwhile we would say, "it's just a lifestyle choice, it shouldn't be forced onto anyone."

You don't even have to constrain this to history, look at how different countries have different views on capital punishment now. What right does any one culture have to judge about another culture?

Each culture decides for itself what is morally right or wrong. So if the majority in V3's world decide killing games are fine, then killing games are no longer deviant in their world. That's why the characters had to teach them differently.

A century into the future, people can look back and think that the things we do that are totally acceptable right now, are completely deplorable from their perspective.

Yes. And they'll probably be right about much of it. There are many ways in which our society is evil. I'm not talking about perception of right and wrong, which does change, but reality of right and wrong, which does not.

But there isn't an unchanging reality of right and wrong. There is no universal action that will always be right or always be wrong, because it is always dependent on the context and perspective.

Whether they were an actual person or not was debatable in the eyes of outside world.

The reason I brought this up in the analysis is how this notion makes Tsumugi far different from Junko. Junko knew the things she was doing were evil and sadistic but she did those things regardless cause she was having fun. Tsumugi, on the other hand, felt justified for what she was doing. You may not agree with her and in some ways, yes, she did pretty horrible stuff but anyone can see things from her perspective and understand where she is coming from.

agree with you, after the AA with Keebo/Audience it seems the V3-world, or at least the V3-DR fandom (wich it seems very important, because when the fandom died the whole show died as well) promotes sadism and disdain towards "fictional" character, (even tho they are just real people with fictional memories), i don't think it's surprising Tsumugi is the person she is

in Ancient Rome there were many deadly games at the colosseum, where many people loved to watch gladiators to die in horrible ways, but who is to blame? the people or the society who allowed it?

i think if our country too allowed killing games we, simple citizens, would not be against it either

i think if our country too allowed killing games we, simple citizens, would not be against it either

I'm sure a good quantity of people would rise against it though.

"It almost makes her look alot more mature and older than the rest of the cast"

But she is right? She said she masterminded 53 seasons, and based on the length of v3, she's gotta atleast be 2-3 years older than the rest of the cast.

But she is right? She said she masterminded 53 seasons

Hm, I feel we can't say that for certain. She did say she worked to keep DR going but never that she had such a main role in the prior seasons. At least I don't recall her saying so.

Worst girl but she thicc. EDIT: I just realized this is character disscussion #69, my comment couldn't be any better right now lmao

I dunno, she looked pretty flat to me.

I see what you did there

Most people are gonna hate me for this, but Mugi is my favourite character in V3, and possibly even the series.

First off, her design. It looks SO cute, and I think that an outfit like that could be pulled off in the real world. I also really like her rose emblem, and her little Team DR button. I even like when she has those 'empty eyes', because they can make everything she says a 100 times more intimidating. Not to mention, she has the cutest sprites ever, especially the ones where she's randomly looking away, not even paying attention to your sorry ass.

Now, I'm gonna talk about Mugi before the reveal, and why I fell in love with her since the prologue. Mugi's main trait would probably be that she's always just...doing her own thing.

Two new people approaching her? She doesn't feel like it, so she'll ignore them. There's a killing game? Alright, but let's see if Saihara, Momota and Harukawa are in a love triangle.

She's always thinking about her own scenarios, and it almost feels like she doesn't really care about what's going on, and it was this mindset that attracted me to her so much. However, she's not completely detached from the game, as she's always asking questions about the actual nature of the killing game...if you talk to her that is. I know that in Ch. 3, you can talk to her and she'll tell you things she finds weird about the building they're in.

The other major trait Mugi has is that she's playing the role of a straight man, and IMO, she plays it really well. I especially love when she roasts Iruma, or that time she called Ki-Bo out on his persecution complex. There's also her "plain" schtick, that's just her confirming she's not like these weirdos. This all makes her feel like the only "real" person in the cast, and I loved that. Everytime you can interact with her, it's like she's a friend of yours, who's just as lost and scared as you are, and it felt comforting. Everytime you'd talk to her, she'd tell you different references and stories, all so you can forget about this dumb killing game and just...hang out. At least that's the feel I got from her FTEs.

And while I like that she didn't have much character development, I do wish that she had had more meaningful relationships. I think she could've worked with Saihara, Akamatsu, Ki-Bo, Yumeno and Gonta (Tsumugonta is actually my OTP) really well.

Now, back to mastermind Mugi. The #1 thing I like about Mugi is that she's a very human mastermind. She has her own goal, and her own idea of the way a killing game should go. She's not Junko - she isn't someone who can predict everyone's actions. Mugi has to get inside the game to control it, and whenever something doesn't go her way, she doesn't enjoy the despair of it - she gets fuckin' pissed. She has to intervene all the time, whether it's picking up after a girl who can't do her calculations right, or making a Flashback Light on the spot to make someone else the bad guy. It's what so amazing about her - she isn't Junko, she's just a human. Yes, a highly competent and quite inteligent one, but still a human. This is also shown in her execution. Mugi doesn't go out with a big smile plastered on her face as she goes through 6 different executions, she gets smashed by a rock while being utterly disappointed by it.

Another thing that I love about her as a mastermind is that she's so similar to her pre-reveal personality. She still just wants to live in her own little world, unaffected by what's outside. She ignores reality in the favor of fiction, which is why she says fiction can't affect reality - to her, it's all just mindless entertainment that allows her to forget about reality. She's still got that classic Mugi charm, she's still making references, and she still wants to be everyone's friend, no matter how fake and superficial their relationship is. I also think that Mugi felt regret after the survivors proved to her that fiction can in fact affect reality. I think she finally realised what she did to these kids, and prior to that, she didn't feel bad about what she had done. And I think that might be behind the whole "cosplaycat criminal" thing - Junko also killed the people she cared for the most, and she absolutely felt awful because of it, as it managed to fuel her despair. Mugi also thinks that she might get a wild ride because of this despair...but no, she just feels like shit because she lost in every possible way.

The last thing I'll address is the cospox. I have two theories.

Tsumugi Shirogane, the character made for the killing game as the mastermind's cover, is fictional, and she can't cosplay the people who are in the same universe as her.

Mugi subconsciously knows these kids are actually normal people she brainwashed, and deep, deep inside, there's a part of her that thinks they're all real. This one is less plausible, but I think it's kinda interesting.

Anyways, that finishes my Mugi rant. She's my best girl, and she deserves the world. I just plainly hope I won't get too many downvotes...that would be plain awful.

I don't mind her in Chapter 6, as she's probably my favourite mastermind we've gotten so far (though that isn't saying much since I don't really like any of them and Tsumugi's still low on my v3 favourites list). The problem is, all of the interesting stuff about her is in chapter 6, so everything before is extremely boring. I don't know why Kodaka thought that a character with a fakeout personality doesn't need a, at the very least, more entertaining fake personality too, especially for a game where she sticks with that fake personality for so long. If she was written to have more elements to her so that when you get to chapter 6's trial you don't go "Oh okay the mastermind has to be Tsumugi since she hasn't done anything" immediately, I'd probably enjoy her more.

Personally I'm a little surprised that so many people, even taking into account her role as the big villain, are billing Tsumugi as hard to discuss or forgettable. I mean, I suppose I can't really blame anyone because she is extremely duplicitous and there are things that are left unsaid by her explanation of her plan, but she's honestly my second favorite character in V3 (barred only by Gonta), and I think she's easily the best 'final boss' in any Danganronpa game.

I don't think it's fair to say her personality prior to her reveal is to be dismissed or was just a ploy--her talent as the Ultimate Cosplayer is very genuine (as shown by the near superhuman shapeshifting qualities her cosplay bestow her in the last trial) and I think so is her passion for anime and various media. Maybe it's the slight dweeb in me but I was really endeared by her references to Dragon Ball and Kinnikuman and her passion for different characters. All in all it makes perfect sense that someone with such love for anime would grow into a role of creating content for Danganronpa, and in the bizarre future V3 occurs in, her elevation to a sinister villain makes a lot of sense. Fame drives people to do fucked up things.

Even her key characteristic of being unfortunately plain plays into her identity--it's kind of a schtick for the most part, but I think her lack of self esteem motivates her hunger for fame, which she'd achieve with the Ultimate Real Fiction. She takes great pride in the gigantic audience Danganronpa garners, enough so that she'd willingly die in its honor. No one recognized her as a plain high school student, but they would as a cosplayer as well as the mogul behind the ultimate real fiction. Also note how frequently she cosplays when she's on top of the world and confident in the final trial, but she notably slows down when the students' determination wears her down. To see her true face, so to speak, is to see her exposed. She feels powerful in the role of someone else.

If we take her confidences and backstory at face value, she's consistently made it in life by pretending. Her stories of her past could be lies, but there isn't very much reason to assume this because as I said before, there's clear evidence she truly is an Ultimate Cosplayer despite also being the Mastermind. She mentions having to get by by mixing drinks and flirting for large tips, as well as several other unspecified jobs. This is where I start delving more into interpretation over what's set in stone, but we can infer from this that Tsumugi had to spread herself thin to sustain her dream career of cosplay. Taking several jobs means taking several personas--no one is the same person at every institution they regular. Tsumugi was never free to be herself in this regard, and ironically, her ideal self was that of a cosplayer, which by definition, also meant she was rarely herself. Her identity of a 'Plain Jane' is one of someone that isn't confident in herself, someone who defines themselves with several jobs and people she pretends to be.

Like I said, some of this is conjecture, since it's unclear how much of Tsumugi's identity was a fabrication, but I think it's more plausible that she's more legit than the rest of the 'fictional' characters in V3, especially since she refers to everyone else as fictional, but never once does she call herself this. Still, it's worth noting that a lot of the above should be taken with a grain of salt as a result of Tsumugi's duplicitous nature.

And I think if you look in retrospect, you'll find Tsumugi's smaller moments speak to her role. She rarely spoke up in class trials unless it was to comment on or nitpick something someone just said, or to fall into a crowd for better deception. Otherwise it was usually small observations on contradictions or details. She even managed to see through one of Shuichi's lie bullets, but she seemingly dismisses the thought. She knew everything that was going on, but she deliberately acted in a way that would forward the drama and gripping nature of the trial.

The sort of realistic commentary Tsumugi presents on media's depiction and desensitization of audiences makes her a more unsettling and gravitational villain than Junko ever was. I found her to be one of the most memorable characters in V3, and I'm thankful DR took the direction they did with her--even if this is a lonely hill to die on.

first of all, thank you for dissenting! i'm not especially a tsumugi fan but i find her fans very well-spoken and convincing so i'm glad someone showed up to play.

how influential do you think tsumugi is in the production of danganronpa: the show? i need to replay 3-6 (i'm right at the end of a replay, in fact) but i always got the impression she was a mid-level line producer -- just far along enough in her career to trust with the reins to the season, but ultimately expendable (in the way you'd need her to be, given that the masterminds seem inevitably to get killed at the end). i don't remember if it was something in the actual text that gave me this impression though or simply the fact that tsumugi seems to fuck up her job pretty regularly.

Thank you for your enthusiasm!

Honestly I hadn't given your question much thought until you asked--I think your answer holds a lot of water. I think she could be anywhere from there to even an entry level intern--bearing in mind that she's probably relatively young (probably at least a little older than the rest of the students, but she doesn't appear to be older than maybe early 20s) and is incredibly enthusiastic about Danganronpa, enough so to perfectly mimic the characters. With her almost idealism over the franchise combined with encyclopedic knowledge she strikes me as someone who was a huge fan one day and a part of the company the next. Her interview for her dream job probably didn't look dissimilar to the footage of Shuichi, Kaede, and Kaito asking to be on the show. Her penchant for cosplay is probably what tipped the scales in her favor to be the perfect mole to make sure things run smoothly.

This is fantastic! Frankly I'm confused why my dumb post has so many upvotes when I'm really just stating the obvious, when we got something that's different and also very well thought out. More Moogi defenders!

You flatter me! I'm glad I produced something of substance--I feared I was reaching a bit here and there lol.

The sort of realistic commentary Tsumugi presents on media's depiction and desensitization of audiences makes her a more unsettling and gravitational villain than Junko ever was. I found her to be one of the most memorable characters in V3, and I'm thankful DR took the direction they did with her--even if this is a lonely hill to die on.

Completely agree with you on that and be sure that I'm on that hill with you, brother.

She killed best boy and best girl 😭

I freaking LOVE Tsumugi. She's my favorite mastermind in the series.

Well technically I hate her ass solid, and I clapped when she got crushed by that stone, because fuck you Tsumugi. I love how she totally fucked up already in Chapter 1, and has to cheat her ass off and brutally murder our innocent protagonist to work her way outta the corner she got herself into. It's single handedly my most Despair filled moment of the whole series. Kaede was innocent. She died thinking she killed Rantaro. That brutally. By that thot. For nothing. I almost punched my TV.

Tsumugi wasn't the most interesting character in the game for sure, but I think people overstate her blandness. She was no worse than let's say Hagakure or Soda, if only based off her truly fun and breezy FTE's. She has some really good interactions with her castmates with some interesting implications. The Kaede and Rantaro secret event in Chapter 1 is great. It's almost like a date between both girls. Tsumugi is enjoying this. Then Rantaro crashes it, and takes all of Kaede's attention away, and Tsumugi legit tells em' to backflip into a land mine. I felt like there was something there, like some form of romantic affection for Kaede, and being ignored doesn't make a total psychopath happy. Of course Rantaro AND Kaede get killed right after. It's almost like Tsumugi controls the plot... And I loved how she subtly hinted her real personality/status through the game from her Episode 53 comment through the true form one. She was sneaky about her real nature.

I've never been a fan of getting REAL answers in fiction. I like to theorize and think about things. To see so many people say "I'm not sure what to think" tells me they nailed it with her. I don't need answers for Tsumugi. I don't need to know what her real lies were. It's what keeps things interesting and keeps us talking. Enjoy it or not, they did exactly what they wanted to, and did it very well.

But still I have problems with her. Especially her cosplay skill which never really comes into play. It's a bit of a waste. It does give her a literal final boss aura at the end, which is badass but still, it should have been used more than for a little fanservicey moment with Kaede.

I find Tsumugi to be a deeply disturbing character. The fact that she was nothing more than a soft-spoken weeb girl for five-sixths of the game really underscored her complete lack of morality when the façade finally broke. She wasn't some soft-spoken weeb girl; she was lying to everyone's faces, continuously, about everything, and she did it well. Even if you, the player, started to suspect something was off with her, nobody in the cast had any inkling of her true nature until the very end. And I doubt "Tsumugi Shirogane" is this person's real name anyway. She's just an employee of Team Danganronpa whose actual identity never gets revealed. Combined with the suggestion that this isn't the first killing game she's masterminded, we get the incredibly unsettling implication that she's significantly older than the rest of the cast. Whereas the other V3 students are fictional characters with life breathed into them, Tsumugi is a mocking imitation of life, a plastic shell surrounding a void. What really brought it home was when she started cosplaying as all the other Danganronpa characters. Seeing her turn herself into all sorts of people, irrespective of size or gender, made me realize that Tsumugi isn't even really human. She is a nameless, formless, soulless monster, and she wants nothing more than to play with people's lives in her Danganronpa world forever. That's fucking terrifying.

By the end of the game I felt like Tsumugi had stared me in the eyes and said "What? Isn't this what you came here for? Didn't you want to see who would be killed, who would be executed, and who would survive? Aren't you having as much fun as I am? Or are you a hypocrite?" For that, I greatly appreciate her as a villain.

And I'm not even going to touch on her apparent incest fetish. Someone else can open that can of worms.

Tsumugi is....difficult for me to discuss. Not because she is really complex and interesting, but because she is so barebones and unappealing as a character that it's hard to write much about her journey in the game.

When the V3 characters were revealed, I found myself forgetting about Tsumugi entirely. I don't know if it was her personality or her design or what, but she did not impress me at all pre-release and was the character I was least excited about. I still had some hope that her character could surprise me, but unfortunately that never happened. Instead, Tsumugi went on to confirm my biggest fear about her character: that she would be boring.

Boring is probably, to me, the worst trait you could have to a character. Because even if you find someone annoying, they still manage to leave an impact on you in some way. If a character is boring, you ultimately have no real reason to care about or feel immersed with where their character will be going because they have nothing to offer that will make you interested. In other words, being boring severely impacts the writing of the character. There are characters who I just don't find compelling enough to care about such as Kirumi or Peko because of their personality, but their flaws don't stand out much because they both die early in the game. However, Tsumugi lasts for the entire game and is revealed to be the mastermind. Because of this, I find Tsumugi's flaws to stick out way worse because her being boring ends up really hurting her reveal.

As I have stated: if a character is boring, I lose any reason for me to care about them because they don't make me feel anything. In other words, I become entirely apathetic to them. This makes things even worse when said character has a big reveal near the end of the game/anime because the fact I no longer care about the character means that they're twist has now become wasted on me. I think one of the worst examples of this problem would by Ryota Mitarai. Mitarai does absolutely nothing throughout the Future Arc besides scream and panic. That is up until episode 12 where he starts brainwashing people and enacting his plan to restore the world through mind control. Interesting set up, but because he did shit up until that moment and had nothing enjoyable to offer as a character, I became apathetic to his character and couldn't care less as to how the writers handled his character from there on. Of course Hope Arc went and turned Mitarai from a really boring character to a really boring character with some of the shittiest writing in the series, but the point is is that if you don't have anything fun or interesting to offer as a character, then I won't feel compelled to care about your character.

Because of this, Tsumugi's character starts to really crumble apart because I have the same issues with Mitarai that I do with her. Throughout the main story, Tsumugi is pretty much a comic relief whose jokes consist of either making anime references, joking about how plain she is, or bouncing off of Himiko's strange remarks. None of these were ever funny in the game and were just repetitive. At this point, I would just think of Tsumugi as stale comic relief. However, it gets worse. Tsumugi has very little significance or contribution to the story up until chapter 6. I know that Keebo can be pretty invisible to, but Tsumugi puts him to shame in terms of uselessness. I mean this is pretty much what Tsumugi did during the game:

In Chapter 1, all that Tsumugi did was become a brief suspect during Rantaro's murder for leaving for the bathroom around his death. Besides that, Tsumugi did nothing of relevance.

In Chapter 2, Tsumugi got captured by Gonta and had to endure the Insect Meet and Greet. She did nothing else of relevance.

In Chapter 3, Tsumugi joined the Student Council. Unlike Angie, Himiko, Tenko or Gonta though, Tsumugi made no impact on the group and didn't do anything of relevance.

In Chapter 4, Tsumugi spotted Miu while investigating the mansion. So she was somewhat relevant this time.

In Chapter 5, Tsumugi did nothing of relevance besides storm Kokichi's hideout with the rest of the students.

In Chapter 6, Tsumugi reveals herself to be the mastermind.

Tsumugi is so non-existent as a character for most of the story. And because she is not funny nor does she have any standout dynamics or relationships with the other students, she offers no reason for me to care about her. So by the time she reveals herself to be the ringleader of the killing game, I could hardly care since she did nothing to make me feel strongly about her. This really hurts her writing for me because something as big as the mastermind twist shouldn't ever feel empty and unrewarding, but Tsumugi does just that.

The worst part about all of this is that this was all intentional by Kodaka. His goal was to make Tsumugi so invisible that you would forget about her existence and not suspect her as the mastermind. Except it has the opposite effect. Her being so useless and forgettable makes her stand out even more. By Chapter 5, I knew that Tsumugi had to be the mastermind solely because everyone else had something going for them, whether it be plot relevance or having character development. But then there's Tsumugi, who hasn't underwent growth or contributed to the story. I feel that Kodaka really shot himself in the foot on that one because I knew that many others had the same feeling regarding the possibility of Tsumugi being the mastermind because of how pointless the writers portrayed her.

Even though I dislike Tsumugi, I can't deny how enjoyable her free time events were to me. I feel that they portrayed her passionate side for the things she loves far better in her FTEs that in the story. And the fact that Kodaka actually went around and interviewed cosplayers to help him get a better idea on how cosplayers do their work is really impressive and is something that I greatly appreciated because Tsumugi's conversations with Shuichi felt really natural.

Going off of the main story though, Tsumugi was terribly written. She was as boring and unentertaining as you can get, and that writing hurt my interest in her character a lot to the point where it negatively impacts her grand reveal for me.

Boring is probably, to me, the worst trait you could have to a character. Because even if you find someone annoying, they still manage to leave an impact on you in some way. If a character is boring, you ultimately have no real reason to care about or feel immersed with where their character will be going because they have nothing to offer that will make you interested.

You're not alone on this. One of the reasons I actually liked characters like Hiyoko or Angie is exactly because they're usually so outrageous, that it's simply memorable. Love or hate, you're sure to remember such glorious things like "SQUISH" or "ATUA". And the two look intensely adorable, so there's that, too.

On a slightly irrelevant note I will have to add that right now I don't exactly like the two in the way I used to anymore. Hiyoko because she bit the dust exactly at a time when her character was about to go in the right direction, and Angie because eventually her philosophy stopped being comedic (if it was so in the first place) and ended up being nothing but a burden on everyone, like Himiko not expressing her emotions the way she could have (at least that's how I remember it)... not a good thing to have your student do, and exactly the reason I regard Tenko "DEGENERATE MALES" Chabashira in a much better light now. But one thing they definitely weren't was boring... not at all. That being said...

There are characters who I just don't find compelling enough to care about such as Kirumi or Peko because of their personality, but their flaws don't stand out much because they both die early in the game.

...I feel rather strange about this one. No, nothing about what you said, really, but more about myself... again. You see, despite my intense disdain for brain-meltingly boring characters, I actually really really love those two. My understanding is that you find Kirumi and Peko to be boring because that's exactly what their personalities are, but strangely I myself didn't find that so bad about them. It's their stoic behavior that made me like them so much in the first place, and I think I have a good reason for that: While they certainly didn't present as much "activity" as much as the rest of the cast, I personally felt like their calm and collected personalities kinda made them stand out in another way still and made them feel much more like "the only sane woman" types... like, Peko is the serious swordswoman who won't take kindly to insolence... or bothering her Young Master™, while Kirumi is the maid who incomprehensibly goes out of her way to be a perfect maid for everyone... and even subdued Kokichi that one time, always a plus point for anyone.

And even then, I thought it was fairly easy to symphathize with them, at least with Peko... Kirumi had that whole "prime minister" thing, which I swear came out of nowhere and was so badly written, it's easy (and recommendable) to just forget about it entirely and just pretend Kirumi wanted to get the fuck out of there because she just really wanted to, it's more the circumstances around her execution in general that made me feel really bad for her, if anything.

My point is, the two had exactly the kind of personality that would make them boring, and while that's definitely a good point against them if you just don't like that personality at all, I'm one of those people that appreciate them exactly BECAUSE of that. Kyoko is a shining example of "stoic woman" and has actually become my favorite Danganronpa 1 character, above even Kiyotaka and Mondo (yeah... I'm one of those intense Mondo fans). Being the most good-looking character aside from Leon and Celeste certainly doesn't hurt her either.

I think one of the worst examples of this problem would by Ryota Mitarai.

I'm not even gonna object to this one. I only quote this so I can agree with it in my very own words. Mitarai was a character only in the most desperately scientific definition of the word. That's all I have to say about him in particular, so for no reason I will just state some more unpopular opinions of mine about Dangthatrhombus 3... I actually really loved Ruruka Andou and thought she was genuinely well-written, and its Junko Enoshima is one of the worst-written characters and villains I have ever seen and is a betrayal of everything that the first two DR's Junko was so awesome for... crazy personality(-ies) aside (which really is the only thing this Junko has in common with the games' one).

Throughout the main story, Tsumugi is pretty much a comic relief whose jokes consist of either making anime references, joking about how plain she is, or bouncing off of Himiko's strange remarks. None of these were ever funny in the game and were just repetitive. At this point, I would just think of Tsumugi as stale comic relief. However, it gets worse. Tsumugi has very little significance or contribution to the story up until chapter 6. I know that Keebo can be pretty invisible to, but Tsumugi puts him to shame in terms of uselessness.

That's where I have to go back to my point of defense for Peko and Kirumi and again state my absolute agreement to everything you said here. That is exactly what's wrong about Tsumugi. She's simply a boring character when she shouldn't have been, none of her personality even hints that it was intentional, and all the time she spends being alive for so long... is to be as irrelevant and non-central as a Dingdongrackatacka character could possibly be.

There actually are some characters which are often considered boring yet don't have the benefit of "calmness"... if you can call it that. Someone like Mahiru might fall under this, and I did consider her that initially, but even for her short time in Dudethatssoradpal 2, she still had a lot of relevance, specifically to both Fuyuhiko and Hiyoko, and her backstory, full personality and Free Time Events made me like her much, much more in the end. Even Akane (a character I really didn't like at all) was saved by these somewhat... and aside from all that, I don't have anything truly bad to say about Sonia. I simply love her, and I'm absolutely glad that she's one of the survivors of SDR2's story. Fight me, if you so desire.

But all that aside, my point (among the other points) is that Tsumugi is too boring and irrelevant to be memorable, yet too annoying and full-of-bad-references to be considered a more simple, stoic character... essentially, she's the worst of two worlds... Though atleast she looks really cute, that much I can give her.

The worst part about all of this is that this was all intentional by Kodaka. His goal was to make Tsumugi so invisible that you would forget about her existence and not suspect her as the mastermind. Except it has the opposite effect. Her being so useless and forgettable makes her stand out even more.

That's actually a joke some fans of Dopeandrope V3 ended up making. "Spot the character without any memorability or importance whatsoever"... though I gotta say, the whole "not standing out makes you stand out" reminds me a hell of a lot of Yoshikage Kira from JJBA... and if you don't know who that is... just look him up, you won't regret it, he's my absolute favorite character from that series and a universally beloved character in general... in fact, why am I even making this comparison...?

Even though I dislike Tsumugi, I can't deny how enjoyable her free time events were to me. I feel that they portrayed her passionate side for the things she loves far better in her FTEs that in the story. And the fact that Kodaka actually went around and interviewed cosplayers to help him get a better idea on how cosplayers do their work is really impressive and is something that I greatly appreciated because Tsumugi's conversations with Shuichi felt really natural.

That's the magic of FTE's (and really, all of Dougandrandyplaygames's bonus modes in general), they can make you adore any, any character, even someone you just couldn't stand at all. They're the timelines I sometimes wish happened in canon... but that would be kinda boring, and so not Damnthosepandas-like at all... shit, I sound exactly like V3's shitty audience in Chapter 6 now, don't I?

That aside, in my opinion, Dayumthatplumpass is the single best franchise to make dating sims, and more than any actual dating sim could... simply because once you start choosing your dating partner, you just know from the beginning you'll look forward to it, because by that point you already know that character well enough and enter the date with that feeling of excitement... you know what I'm saying? It's strange just how wonderfully Dudetheresapimpleinundermypants does this...

And yes, just by virtue of her being her dorky cosplaying self (which she just should have fucking stayed from the beginning), Tsumugi ends up really shining in these events.

But yes... in terms of main story, she's ass. And as a villain, she's the assest... but Ryota Mitarai is even asser. But the biggest ass is me... we all know that.

You see, despite my intense disdain for brain-meltingly boring characters, I actually really really love those two. My understanding is that you find Kirumi and Peko to be boring because that's exactly what their personalities are, but strangely I myself didn't find that so bad about them. It's their stoic behavior that made me like them so much in the first place

Understandable, but it's not like I don't like characters with stoic personalities. I loved Kirigiri back in DR1 even though she was really calm and silent herself. I guess my problem with Peko isn't that she is stoic, but because she wasn't prominent like Kirigiri was. I think her silent personality ends up hurting her in that regard because she ends up fading into the background until the end of Chapter 2. For Kirumi, I think she actually has presence during her brief time in the game. She contributed decently to the class trials and got a lot of focus on in Chapter 2. My main problem with her is that she was really one-note. Everything about her character was "selfless devotion" and "serving others". Even when it was revealed that she used her kindness as a way to manipulate, it all traced back to her motive to help serve her country. You could say the same thing for someone like Angie, but as you said her Atua schtick stands out and makes me feel a greater emotion that I would with Kirumi's schtick of serving others which I simply find to be dull.

And even then, I thought it was fairly easy to symphathize with them, at least with Peko... Kirumi had that whole "prime minister" thing, which I swear came out of nowhere and was so badly written, it's easy (and recommendable) to just forget about it entirely and just pretend Kirumi wanted to get the fuck out of there because she just really wanted to, it's more the circumstances around her execution in general that made me feel really bad for her, if anything.

Peko made for a pretty sympathetic culprit and her dilemma with Fuyuhiko was a nice touch on her character.

Kirumi's motive was understandable and I could see how she could weigh the lives of an entire country over 13 random kids she doesn't know. That being said, she is probably the least sympathetic killer in the game(yes even less than Shinguji).

There actually are some characters which are often considered boring yet don't have the benefit of "calmness"... if you can call it that. Someone like Mahiru might fall under this, and I did consider her that initially, but even for her short time in Dudethatssoradpal 2, she still had a lot of relevance, specifically to both Fuyuhiko and Hiyoko, and her backstory, full personality and Free Time Events made me like her much, much more in the end. Even Akane (a character I really didn't like at all) was saved by these somewhat... and aside from all that, I don't have anything truly bad to say about Sonia. I simply love her, and I'm absolutely glad that she's one of the survivors of SDR2's story. Fight me, if you so desire.

I really agree with you on Mahiru, and I also want to add in Ryoma on this as well because he's also a Chapter 2 victim. Ryoma, like Mahiru, was really helpful and active in the class trials and provided a handful of theories. I think what makes Ryoma better than Mahiru to me was that he still had his own arc despite dying early. For Mahiru, I would say that she was underutilized in the story and was treated unfairly by the story because the Chapter 2 motive specifically targeted her. For Ryoma, I feel that the writers did more with his character with giving him a tragic story where he ends up giving away his life after trying to find a reason to live only to see that no one cares about him anymore.

I am in the minority where I actually disliked Akane more after doing her free time events. As for Sonia, she didn't develop much nor did she have good FTE's, but she was so hilarious in the second half of the game that I am willing to overlook those flaws and love her.

That's the magic of FTE's (and really, all of Dougandrandyplaygames's bonus modes in general), they can make you adore any, any character, even someone you just couldn't stand at all.

Yeah, Tsumugi would have been my least favorite character from V3 had she not had amazing free time events. I could also apply this to Kiyotaka, Toko, Mahiru, Kazuichi, Mikan, Ryoma, and Keebo where my opinion of them went way higher after doing their free time events.

Characters that only get to shine by their great side content like ftes or other bonus modes that usually works on their characterization and character in overall aren't a bad thing for me because honestly, it's hard to have time to work on all characters at once and keep it balancing but also some of them dies really early, so it's really unfair to judge them only by their few screentime purely when the game offers more content for you to know about them better. I think the best characters that had some nice writing work on them from their side content were Mikan, Ryoma, Mahiru and ishimaru.

If you compare Tsumugi to all and another masterminds, how you would rate Tsumugi's mastermind role from "best" to "worst" rank?

If I were to rank them based on how well they worked as a mastermind, it would go:

Monaca>Tsumugi>Junko>Tengan

If I were to rank them based on how enjoyable they were as a mastermind, it would go:

Junko>Monaca>Tsumugi>Tengan

I honestly can't think of much to say about her, I'm not even sure if I dislike/hate her or if I'm indifferent to her; You kind of need to have a character to get people to feel something towards you. Besides being able to call that Tsumugi's the mastermind at the very start of the game, that's it, there's nothing else to really say about her; Let's be real here, the outside world might as well be the true mastermind and Tsumugi is just the girl they called in to be our/their surrogate. Thanks to a majority of Tsumugi's dialogue being references to other things, half of it is either flying over your head or you get it, have a laugh (or don't), but then realize that it added nothing to the conversation or topic at hand, cuz no one else in the game gets it. I don't know if they attempted to make her "comedic foil" or the "straight woman" of the group, but not only is she rarely funny, but they already did this with Leon in DR1(who's a good example of a straight character, imo), so they should know how to do this already. Even as far as boring or plain characters go, she's too boring and has little to no substance; Makoto, Hajime, hell, even Komaru are examples of good boring characters; they're plain in terms of the people around them and somewhat act as gateway characters, but they still have enough there to give them their own personalities and character for people to find enjoyable and/or interesting.

Tsumugi has no special interactions with anyone and doesn't serve as an important character to anyone in the group, not even the MC's of the game; she's just there to look like another unfortunate student that got thrown into the same shitty situation as everyone else there.

The only reason that I'm unsure of my hate or indifference towards her, is because she's the reason that Kaede and Rantaro died for basically nothing, while making Kaede feel like a guilty piece of shit for "murdering" her friend in the process (Yes, Kaede is one of my favorites from this game.); That pisses me off to a great degree, but other than being the mastermind of the game, there's still no character for me to antagonize or be antagonized by.

Ms. Plain Jane mastermind is a lot more interesting on rewatch, for obvious reasons. I think part of what makes Tsumugi such a frustrating character to me is that she has such potential.

Tsumugi defines herself as a fan, which she is, whether someone fascinated by real events or fiction really depends on how you want to interpret the ending. But, more importantly than the danish pursuits, which she outlines pretty clearly at the end, Tsumugi's a writer. Even though she defines herself primarily by her more fannish traits, they're not what's most important to her role in the story, nor is her most important role even her existence as the mastermind, because the real mastermind is more the conglomeration of who or whatever Team Danganronpa is. Rather, Tsumugi's most important role in V3 is her role as V3's writer which ties into, and should have tied into considerably more, the more meta aspect of V3 as a game.

Tsumugi is a writer whose story is getting a little bit away from her, who doesn't know how the story should end, who's discovering that fiction is difficult to control. Which is strange, because she simultaneously exists as a character in the story, so within that story, she must have a role before the last chapter. She clearly tries to steer the story and the reactions of the other characters in specific directions--attempting to make Gonta as sympathetic as possible, pointing out some of Kokichi's lies and piling on suspicion onto him, playing a minor role in the student council, but otherwise stays far out of the action as possible while still not trying to come across as a completely useless character. Tsumugi's not interested in making herself interesting. She's interested in creating the most entertaining experience possible--and no matter your interpretation of the ending or whether what she was saying is true or not, Tsumugi's clear goal and attempt in the game is to make it as entertaining as she can, which is really the goal of most writers.

And beyond that, we can only speculate: on how much she was involved in what happened, on whether she was brainwashed into her role, on what exactly Team Danganronpa is, but I don't think any of that would change Tsumugi as a character as much as the story as a whole. This could be considerably longer, but part of my frustration with Tsumugi as she is is that so much of her is shrouded in the ambiguity that the rest of the V3 ending was stuck in, with little clarity behind it. I think more could have been done.

To put it bluntly she was really boring, she did next to nothing most of the game so when chapter 6 rolled around she either had to be the mastermind or they made a character who did nothing the whole game. As a mastermind she isn't interesting either, she's mostly characterised as a over obsessive DR fangirl or a stereotypical sociopath and the fact she mimicked other characters half the trial certainly didn't help make her interesting.

Oh boy, this pathetic excuse of "Junko the 53rd." Where to begin with Tsumugi...

At least with Junko, she had an actual set goal in mind of what she really wanted and had a lot of more flavor when they found her out. Even then, she still had some sort of way to leave a strong impression about her. Tsumugi on the other hand is exactly what she is: a "cosplaycat criminal." No flavor, no substance, just one big huge act upon another to keep Hunger Games killing games going. Where's the fun in that? And yeah, Junko killed herself (though her sister) to keep her identity a secret but she did it in a clever manner of using the rules that kept a lot of people guessing until the later chapters. Tsumugi on the other hand with no actual sibling to use and without a care for the rules, straight up murders Rantaro to setup Kaede's false killing. Yeah, she would've been figured out super quickly, but who's fault is that? Ironically, some people made an instant connection that it was Tsumugi because she went into the bathroom, hinting a probable means to getting their quickly, and her personality.

Also, there was no real strong impact from her character beginning to end cause as she stated, she was plain. She almost did nothing useful during most of the game and the first time seeing her cosplay was more of shock value than leaving impressions. Doesn't help that some of the things she mention is piss poor lies than bittersweet ones. Junko did this concept well. Her lies were a mixture of partial truth and exaggeration (like the world ending, but not exactly). This is help with the brainwash setup she had going for her with TRUE memories before they enter the building. Tsumugi on the other hand just brainwashes real people and replaces them with fake memories instead for a live death show (some of them were actually good for an actual sequel, but we get this instead). Which not only confuses the students, but even the players like ourselves. Especially the half-baked HPA memories, which really left her open in the end for it. For a die hard fan of the series, she can't even get that correct. Speaking of which...

Fiction. I cannot believe, probably the best cosplayer in the world (or in that world at least), doesn't believe in the power of fiction. Cosplay BREATHES fiction like no other. I'm surprised she didn't cover herself on that usage of fiction and only thinks of it as a toy for tickling people's eye balls. Is she handicapped to that idea? Did the writers think she would be too powerful if she do so? I dunno, but just felt very silly for someone who loves fiction in many ways to create a fictional void NOT to believe in the power of fiction. No wonder why she's a hack.

A keynote to Tsumugi is her viewing this to the outside world to boost killing game entertainment, which can easily misinterpreted by most as our actual world liking it. What really grinds me on the brain for this part is that is this Tsumugi blaming the audience or Kodaka instead? Cause honestly, feels like he's channeling his thoughts right into her and make it seems like we're ungrateful die-hard fans enjoying killing games as entertainment. He may say it isn't, but I feel an invisible slap to the face when Kodaka agreed for the game to go "the outside world is the mastermind!" What a shallow way to cover your behind there.

I could go on and on, but I really don't like Tsumugi. Design-wise, she's not that bad, but everything else about her is hot garbage. People can hate Junko and I'm ok with that, but I can't see Tsumugi being better than her as she does things worse than Junko's (and by worse, I mean her methods to keep the killing going). Easily 2nd worst DR character for me (a certain boxing guy takes the top). On an ending note, I do agree to one thing she says. Which is her plain, dull, and unlikable personality. Totally not lying there.

One thing that strikes me as very odd about mastermind Mugi is how much danger she puts herself in by being an active participant of the killing game. She does have a big advantage over the other kids in that she has access to the surveillance system (after all, that's how she knew about Kaede's trap and the camera intervals). But iirc she can only get that information from Motherkuma, meaning she has to be in her evil mastermind lair to hear it. Also, it's not really an instant process because Motherkuma has to parse through all the stuff the Nanokumas film. So Tsumugi knows a lot of stuff sure, but she has nowhere near the pseudo-omnipotence that Junko had in either of her games. And unlike Tsumugi, Junko never put herself in any remote danger during her games unless she wanted to be in danger.

And she's so vulnerable. Her main defense mechanism seems to be blending into the background and being so plain that no one would suspect her. But she's such an easy target. She has the completely harmless talent of cosplayer and the personality she presents is meek and not too bright. If she's really the big shot in charge of everything, shouldn't she at least give herself a badass talent like Maki or Tenko's so she'd be less of a squishy little target? Unless she's going full Junko and intentionally putting herself in a lot of danger for that despairful risk of her plans going awry. But Tsumugi doesn't seem to have a despair fetish like Junko, so I don't think that makes much sense.

If Tsumugi is allowed to put herself in so much risk, we can probably guess that she doesn't think it's a big deal if she ends up dying. And if it's okay for the mastermind of the game to die, it seems like the "mastermind" is just as expendable to Team Danganronpa as the rest of the players are.

Just like everything else about her, it's left ambiguous in the end just how complicit "Tsumugi" was in her role. As in, the actual blue-haired drink of water who plays the Ultimate Cosplayer we all know and love and hate. But her role in the game makes me think that "Tsumugi" was a normal player of the killing game, and not the pivotal member of TDR that she said she was. She was a Danganronpa fangirl who walked into the audition room and asked to play the role of the mastermind, because she thinks the mastermind characters are the coolest and no one would expect such a plain-looking girl to be the mastermind, so it'd be good for ratings!

Several characters in the game operate under the mindset that if the mastermind dies, then the game ends. But knowing this series, that's probably not true, because the characters rarely ever get things right in a Danganronpa game outside of the trial room. The game wouldn't end once the mastermind dies, because the mastermind is played by a regular actress and is just as expendable as the rest of them.

I've seen a few of us discuss the idea of a "New Game Plus" for this game already. Something that would allow us to play the game again, with different murders and different culprits. Obviously, this is something that would never happen because it would literally double the amount of work for the dev team lol, they'd have to write two games and then sell them for the price of one. But it's something fun to think about.

A lot of these ideas often involve correctly exposing Tsumugi in chapter 1, thus proving Kaede's innocence and letting us play as Kaede for the entire game dammit. Say this happens, and Tsumugi is found to be the culprit and executed. The mastermind is dead, right? The game is over! But it's not. The game continues and Monokuma is still going strong. And our poor confused characters are forced through five more brutal chapters where they lose their friends one by one and two by two. And finally, chapter 6 rolls around, the climax of the story hits, and all of a sudden Shuichi is the one blabbering about fiction and reality, laughing like a maniac and taunting Kaede and the precious few that remain about their entire lives being completely fabricated.

Because after Tsumugi died, TDR sighed, rolled up their sleeves, fished a name out of a hat and chose some other sap to be their replacement mastermind with their handy-dandy brainwashing. And if that goldfish died, they would get another. And another. Because Danganronpa V3 has no end

Okay, that took a brief turn into literal fanfiction, sorry about that. But yeah, the weird circumstances of Tsumugi as a mastermind leads me to believe that her being alive isn't necessary to the game at all, and that in turn makes me believe she's just another crazy fangirl who was brainwashed into another person. In a way, I kinda like her better this way. I mean, fuck Tsumugi and all, but there's something very tragic about a teenage girl being brainwashed into a monster who is responsible for so many atrocities, and yet nowhere near as important as she believes she is. It paints Tsumugi as another one of TDR's victims, and it makes her look like a scapegoat or a hate sink that TDR is throwing into the viewers' faces so they can keep getting away with their shit.

(Another moment in the story that supports this: Tsumugi's behavior right before being outed in chapter 6. She gets so confused and overwhelmed, the girl looks like she's going through a blue screen of death right there. And then her personality just turns 180 degrees and goes batshit FICKSHUN. Maybe that was her brainwashing kicking into effect? Maybe she or someone in TDR has the ability to turn it on and off, because honestly how good of an actress can this girl even be, for her to present herself as this innocent baby lamb for 90% of the game without slipping out of her persona even once.)

Anyway yeah. There's just so many ways to interpret this chick. Is Tsumugi a pivotal member of TDR who's just ballsy or crazy enough to be part of the game? Or is she another victim of TDR's crimes? Or something else in between? Who knows.

I really like Tsumugi but I'm not a smart boy so I can't write a whole three paragraphs about her like so many commenters in this thread. I just wanna get something out of my chest real quick. Tsumugi isn't "just Junko again" dammit. Yes, she plays the role of Junko. Yes, the game itself mocks the fact that they're bringing Junko into this one more time. Beyond that, they are very different in personality and ideologies. Ok, rant off.

While many don't like her, I find Tsumugi to be an interesting character, and while others might disagree I think she's the best mastermind in the series.

...Okay, wait, that's a little misleading so let me put it a different way: I think Tsumugi is the most coherently written "hidden" mastermind in the series. In 1 if you were asked who the mastermind was then Junko would probably be the last person you said, but that wasn't because she didn't seem like a likely candidate, it was because the game lied and said she had died, and with no indication up until then of a trick it would be pretty out there to have guessed that it was her before chapter 6. In 2 they pull essentially the same trick, which feels a bit dirty and still leaves you with no hints until the finale of who orchestrated things. Then Tengan being DR3's mastermind feels like they literally rolled dice before the last episode to decide who it would be. I'm not counting Monaca or Nagito because the game makes little to no effort to hide that they're the ones really pushing the plot along, so there's not really a twist to it.

By comparison, Tsumugi actually feels like she was written into the story from the outset to be the secret mastermind, making the reveal feel less like a shocking swerve and more like a deliberate choice that you had a fair chance of being able to predict. For most of the game, she is portrayed as a kind if somewhat meek girl, who wants to get those she gets close to into cosplay. She's not the only character who's like that: Ibuki, Hifumi, Mahiru, etc. are all examples of characters that want to share their interests with their friends and most are amiable during their FTEs, but Tsumugi is played up as if that's her entire life. She even openly calls herself plain, which would be a sign of some self esteem issues in a normal character, but in hindsight feels more like she's trying to brush off the protagonist to get them to stop digging into the backstory she probably slapped together overnight.

If I was asked to pick my top three candidates for mastermind in chapter 5 (I would say top 5, but there were only seven people alive so that wouldn't be much of an accomplishment), Tsumugi would have a very real chance of being in it and might even top the list. Plus, her motivation for doing so, making a fucked up TV show, sounds like something that an actual person might decide to do, rather than "she's crazy" or "complex motives". Basically, Tsumugi being the mastermind feels more like how a twist should feel, that things you may have brushed off sort of snap into place instead of just appearing out of nowhere. It might not have had as much impact if you are someone that likes wild twists, but from the perspective of it being a mystery to be solved it's much better to have it be something we CAN solve.

So is she a good mastermind in the sense of... Well, being a good mastermind? I'd say no, in terms of controlling the game and having things go her way she pretty much does the worst job of any mastermind of the series (yes, including Tengan). Kokichi essentially runs free, and seems to completely derail what was probably the intended story starting in chapter 4, and just about everything he manages to get away with could've been avoided with a more active and competent mastermind. Miu also has a talent that is almost comically overpowered in the setting Tsumugi's created, and while she seems to have been given a personality that would make it hard for her to make good use of it, she was also given a minion complex that made her basically a tool for more clever students...

I will probably bring that up again on Miu's analysis, but the fact that it's a thing is all that matters now. Essentially, if Tsumugi is actually in control then she played herself hard. I'm not even sure she wanted to be the mastermind, the sadistic choice she offers feels less like she's trying to get the others in trouble and more like she desperately wants to survive while knowing that a normal outcome will result in her death. So naturally, she changes the "first trial do-over" into the "finale trial" and makes the hope ending an extremely Pyrrhic victory using her authority as mastermind, giving her the best chance of getting out alive despite being outed as the mastermind and nearly convicted of murder. The previous games also had the default choices sound terrible, but Junko's sadistic enough to make it believable that she'd want to set up those situations and then have them essentially walk into their own demise. Tsumugi doesn't vote despite having every right to and seemingly having incentive as well, and while she says the others are "fictional" she never really expresses a desire for them to die.

With Junko being off her gourd, obviously choosing to stay in the school/on the island was never a good option, but with Tsumugi it doesn't seem entirely implausible. Obviously the glaring flaw in my theory is that she didn't vote, thus leaving her fate at the hands of Keebo/the audience, and my only explanation is that she wanted to let the audience choose the ending. She may also have assumed that the "nobody votes" ending would allow her to survive as well...

And yes, I know it is very hypocritical for her to execute everyone else, even for crimes they didn't commit, then try to save her own skin, but good people don't mastermind killing games. I mean, she DID personally murder Rantaro. Even if I'm trying to be a Tsumugi apologist, the best I can come up with is that she didn't want to get in a situation where she'd have to make good on her threat to kill everyone.

But now for my gripes with her:

Her talent doesn't make any sense. So she can become a near-perfect facsimile of characters, even ones that should be physically impossible to properly emulate (such as Hiyoko or Fuyuhiko who are much smaller than her), while the Imposter is easily recognizable as different than the person he's pretending to be (for the audience at least)? I guess you could justify it by saying she doesn't change her behavior to match or something, but it feels more fantastical than most of the talents on display in V3, or even in the series as a whole. Maybe not as ludicrous as Komaeda's luck but that's a bit subjective

Her "execution" is also lame. If you felt an execution was needed, then surely a real one would have been more appropriate rather than coincidentally getting crushed by a rock because she was standing in the wrong spot when K1B0 was blasting the academy. It doesn't even feel deliberate on the students' part, like she could've easily survived if she'd just decided to stand somewhere else. I can understand the characters not wanting to kill her and also not wanting her to be around, but it could have been a "tradition" or something for the mastermind to get executed and she just follows that up instead of a random accident. This is also part of the reason I think she may have been trying to get an ending where she survived.

I would argue that it would've been more satisfying for her to survive the end of the game and come to realize that either she was wrong and the world isn't like she thought, or that she's been fired from Team Danganronpa for incompetence (or go for a somewhat dark combo and say she got fired because she didn't fulfill her contract by dying after the 6th trial, thus coloring how fucked up the dangan world is a bit more). Of course, a real execution still would've been a better closer, especially if she freaked out as she went into it rather than going willingly like all the other masterminds have.

The cospox thing is never really explained in-universe. Sure, she says the other characters are fake so she can dress as them freely, but she also didn't think the current cast was real but still broke out in a rash wearing Kaede's clothes. I assume we're meant to say she staged it to avoid suspicion (because otherwise she could be getting accused during every trial), but that doesn't feel like a good excuse for something that nearly makes a plot hole and could have been avoided entirely. Maybe Kaede's clothes belong to a "real" person and Kaede was outfitted like that so she could stage cospox?

It's also not clear whether she's actually right/being truthful about the whole team danganronpa thing. I know it's probably deliberate because this way they don't completely cut off the possibility of a new game while still having the full impact of the fiction twist, but it feels like a massive loose end they created just for the sake of leaving it untied. The other games left the futures uncertain, and they certainly did leave a few questions hanging, but this is far more so because we're left with almost no point of reference. Obviously the world's not actually dead, and there is clearly some kind of audience watching, but that doesn't mean that everything Tsumugi said was true. I'm not saying it was all lies either, but this sort of leaves the state of everything hanging there in limbo until we get more dangan material, which is a bit weird given that the last trial was supposedly "the trial to end all killing games"...

So overall: I find she has enough depth to be worth considering but not quite enough to dig into what her "real" backstory might be or find out what's actually happening in-universe. She's certainly not in my top ten (not even if we only count V3 characters), but I don't think she's a bad character.

Also, she can mix drinks... so that's nice I guess.

69 :>

Miu should be character discussion #69.

(You might've seen some of this posted before by me, it's just reworded a bit)

She's bland, uninteresting, and plain. She stands out like a sore thumb because there's never been a DR character like her before. And honestly, I like her for it. She even has a good design and sprites, and I'd go as far to say she has one of the best FTEs in the series (I like Kaede's more than Shuichi's, but both are well-done). I wouldn't say her character is great, but it's new. It's different. And given that I wasn't really too hot on V3 while playing it, something original was like finding a water spout in the Sahara

So yeah, I like her. I predicted she was the mastermind by the end of Chapter 2 when she was still alive, but there were definitely points in the game where I wished she just stayed as the red herring. I like how she acknowledges how plain and extra she is, reminds me of Ann from Arrested Development

Plus, she plays the straight woman of the cast pretty well at points, particularly against Himiko in later chapters. And she makes references to things I like :p

Mastermind Tsumugi I'm not as much a fan of. I suppose one could like how it's an extreme extension of the character established, I actually kind of think it takes a dump on her. I would've much rather she stayed the nice girl she was portrayed as after being a huge red herring the entire game than her just becoming another Junko. They're pretty much exactly the same, down to not having a personality of their own and relying on switching constantly. At least she has some form of a good motive. It's the most basic of villain writing but it's something Junko completely lacked so I guess Tsumugi gets a small boost there. Like, it's something so her giving her life at the end just because she's that obsessed is a nice bit of characterization. Plus Team DR's motives are pretty grey which is nice. It's not too much of a compliment, it really is a marginal preference in the end that doesn't mean anything

As it is, the mastermind twist is way too obvious. Tsumugi definitely needed some relation to a cast member or more of a role in the plot to sell it better. This is the first time DR properly does the "one of us is the mastermind" twist and they make it the person you least (most) expect. Not clever to just have her around all game until she finally gets her moment, especially considering she has the most suspicious talent in the game aside from Keebo. Honestly I was a bit insulted that it was meant to be surprising, and I'm surprised I've seen so many people praise the twist

Plus, even if Tsumugi did do shit before Ch6, it wouldn't matter. Let's say the mastermind is Himiko instead. We get to Ch6 and she reveals herself. She switches personalities with magic shit or whatever but mastermind!Himiko is pretty much the same as mastermind!Tsumugi

That's not satisfying at all. In fact, making a character you've gotten to know a completely different character at the end of the game is literally the same thing as doing what DR1 did and just introducing a new character to be the mastermind and I hated that twist even more. I actually liked Tsumugi. I wanted to believe her and felt bad for her when she was being accused in Ch6. Hell by Ch3 when I had already done Miu's FTEs, I decided to hang out with Tsumugi because I thought the rest of the cast was more boring. Which is a more criticism of them than a compliment to her

I've said it before for these discussions and I'll say it again: V3 has the worst habit in the series of only making the side-characters relevant in the chapter they die. Tsumugi is far and away the worst example of this. Don't get me wrong, I do like her original personality, but that doesn't mean I didn't also think she was annoyingly useless the entire game. I wanted to see her interact with people. I wanted her to do something. But Kodaka thought the best way to balance these things is to not give Keebo and Tsumugi jack-shit to do the entire game before giving them giant roles in Ch6. At some point, when you wait that long, you're not gonna care anymore

But the real reason I'd guess Tsumugi is the mastermind and not a character like Himiko? Kaito? Gonta? Because Kodaka was afraid. Those characters may have nested themselves in the hearts of the players. Some have even had character arcs. Best to make the mastermind a character nobody cares about, right?

Last thing I wanna address is that I've seen a common sentiment before that Tsumugi being the mastermind is a genius twist because when you get back to replay the game you realize everything she said had a hidden meaning. I just wanna call this out as being a giant bucket of bullshit. Are there some lines? Sure, I guess. Nothing that really counts as a clue to her being the mastermind, but they can add replayability. But it's not even close to 5% of her overall lines in the game and this blatant hyperbole doesn't serve anyone

TL;DR: Tsumugi is pretty good as a character but still annoyingly useless. Mastermind twist ruined her character but she's still better than Junko

She managed to work in an Ace Attorney Spirit of Justice reference.

Is it going to be a new Danganronpa thing to be so formulaic that you work in an ace attorney reference in chapter 2? Please tell me there's not one in DR 1

The SOJ reference was the best one in the game

Wait, where was that?

6-2

...Holy shit, that's perfect.

I like Tsumugi but for only two reasons: she has my favorite design out of all the characters and she's the best non-Monokuma villain in my opinion.

Either her or Maki are the worst v3 girls. While Maki suffer of constantly exposition in the spotlight, Tsumugi is the opposite. She barely do something memorable or useful in the all 5 chapters besides doing some references here and there. Even Ouma roasts her by calling her a sad girl who people most likely not understand her references and as a "mastermind", she is the most disappointing one in the entire franchise. Now, you might notice the " between the word mastermind and ask why? That's because I don't see her as a mastermind at all. Just a girl that cosplay characters and act crazy. In her killing game, she made many mistakes that I find her really dumb instead of a great DR fangirl that she claims she is. First, she come with that backfire motive in chapter 1, where she almost destroyed the entire killing game in that chapter, gave Keebo weapons where he could use to destroy the academy and end the killing game, Then she made mistakes in the writting about Hope's Peak accepting students through tests instead of scounting, that the Ultimate despair locked the 78th class in the building and other mistakes that can prove her fakery and that shows how she does a poor job. And now, her role as a mastermind of a killing game that she didn't even created. Monokuma was basically being controlled by someone else(Possible TDR) who was behind all of this. Not even her. That's why I don't see her as a mastermind and yes TDR since they are the company who made the killing games, which, just contribute for list of disappoints that I have with Tsumugi and I don't see her as a threat either, different of Junko and Monaca. Maybe it's because she was just portraying the role of a MM instead of being one. So, Tsumugi is a "character" that have one of the most disappointing writting, simple because she doesn't convince as a villain and make too many mistakes that I even think TDR send those weapons for Keebo so he could just end the killing game earlier and honestly, doesn't caught attention, did nothing useful and is just there for make references.

Tsumugi Shirogane. A character who was literally written to be a plain jane bore-fest. Since everyone and their grandmas already talked about how boring/uninteresting she is, I wanna talk about how Kodaka could have made her not so boring. For starters, make her interact with other characters instead of just being there, spewing references. Make her have some type of bond either with Saihara or Keebo. It will give her some much-needed interactions while also making sure that the game is still going to her script and it would give some amazing betrayal points. Secondly, maybe show her being conflicted being the ringleader and in Danganronpa. Make have some sort of external conflict, since she's slowly becoming attached to the characters. Overall Shirogane is a character, that was just there and had no character until the ending, but even that couldn't save her. Also, I just realize that this is the 69th character discussion which would have been perfect for everyone's favorite cum dumpster, Miu Iruma.

Everyone is saying Tsumugi is hard to pin down, but nobody's saying why: we know next to nothing about her that we know to be true. We don't know what Team DR actually is, what role Tsumugi has in it, or what she's said that's actually true. She's a terribly written antagonist and I hate her for it. She's quite literally my least favorite character in the entire franchise (that includes Haiji). That's mainly because I had a better story the minute the credits started and I resent Tsumugi for getting in the way of that.

[Rant that has nothing to with Tsumugi analysis incoming, I just need to write this down]

Kodaka wanted to break the mold with DRV3. He could've done that with what he had if he just had Rantaro kill Tsumugi, then slip into the lair. It could've turned into a tale of a mastermind that worked against the killing game. He'd have to frame Kaede. He could slowly slip into insanity as he watches his friends die around him, thinking that every death is due his failure to stop the game. Chapter 5 could be Rantaro snapping after he learns the way he won the 52nd game (and making that definitive instead of enigmatic) and reenacts it, framing yet another as he attempts to stop it all. Chapter 6 would reveal him and the rest of cast don't forgive him. They learn that the "mastermind" was just a fun little diversion for the viewers, and that both Rantaro was lied to all along and Tsumugi was just some low level employee who knew what she was getting into, just like the 15 others. Together they could win without killing Rantaro and they all take down the big, bad Team DR, the end. Plus they could have a bonus mode where you play as Rantaro from Tsumugi's death on. /end rant

[Rant that has nothing to with Tsumugi analysis incoming, I just need to write this down]

That would be interesting but Rantaro framing Kaede for something he did would still make it so that he cheated in the killing game and basically kept it going despite his intentions. He'd need to receive a full blown punishment for that, like Tsumugi received.

V-3 basically turns itself into a (really good, imo) Gnostic allegory at the end, with Tsumugi as the Demiurge. Unlike Junko (more of a familiar Devil figure) Tsumugi is the creator of the characters as well as the antagonist. Every likeable quality Kaede had? She pasted it onto a sociopathic "blank slate" Kaede, who originally cared so little about human life she volunteered for a fucking killing game. Every inspirational thing Kaito ever said to you? She wrote those. Your crush? She gave it to you. Your fucking inner voice? Just an audience poll. So on what grounds do you object to her? On what grounds do you oppose her? You and your friends are just a bunch of toys she made. Why shouldn't she play with them? What's wrong with forcing you to kill each other. Your lives aren't real. You're not real people. You're toys.

Shuichi's "the pain in my heart is real" speech is my favorite moment in the entire danganronpa franchise. It doesn't matter if they were Tsumugi's characters or not. Because Kaede wasn't just a piano-playing persona Tsumugi glued onto some sociopath; she actually DID lead her fellow students and try unsuccessfully to save them all. Kaito wasn't just reading off Tsumugi's script; he actually MEANT the things he said to you, even if Tsumugi didn't mean them when she wrote them. In the actions the V3 characters took throughout the killing game, they made themselves real. They were created as characters, but became people. And if Tsumugi doesn't see that, fuck her and fuck her audience. We're not going to play along.

Shuichi's defiance in that final case is awe-inspiring. Gripping. Intoxicating. And I'll probably talk about it way more once his own discussion thread comes out.

I agree with this a million percent. I was rankled at the meta ending at first because, like many, I detected the unintended, but strong, waft of 'fuck you, fans', but what I could tell, even then, and what helped me come around on the ending, is this aspect. The creations becoming more than what they were made to be, and telling their creator to stick it. Shuichi became my favorite protagonist by far. The entire sixth chapter, he is absolutely on fire.

Really, he became my own idea of an Ubermench, who rose Above the traditional morality of his society (the killing game) to show the way forward.

This deserves more upvotes. A great summary of why Tsumugi isn't "Junko Enoshima 2.0" like a lot of people want to pretend she is.

I do honestly agree with those who say she was a waste of character. Yet I liked her. That might seem contradictory, but really what I mean is, I like what's there. But the central approach of her character, that she's been deliberately zeroed out and takes cover to avoid ever sticking out as potential killer, victim, or mastermind suspect, means that she therefore can't do anything.

She is an answer to my long-standing speculation 'What if the Mastermind was really just one of our friends all along, sitting with us, pretending to be an actual human being like us all'. Unfortunately, I feel like one of the reasons she didn't get development was so that she wouldn't feel like she was 'betraying' it by turning out to, in fact, be evil. Which in a sense I appreciate, but first off, it makes her stand out really obviously by the final chapter.

Like on a radar screen, if there's a massive, kilometer-wide space of complete blankness, that even blocks background radiation and light, then it's just as obvious as if it was blinking white and spinning and broadcasting a message from Zorblat the Conquerer.

I have a personal theory that her character would have been more interesting if we, the audience, knew from the word 'go' that she was the Mastermind, and all the interactions with her took on the same quality they do on a second playthrough of the story. Lines of hers like "Oh no, it's the other way around. When I take off my glasses, I reveal my true form. Those who see it pay a terrible price." are assumed to probably just be some hot spicy fresh anime references, but for me, who knows Tsumugi's true form, it's fucking chilling. Note that this wouldn't involve giving way her tampering with Rantaro or anything else about the actual mystery cases, but just the actual fact that she was behind it. Kaede and Shuichi still wouldn't know it.

I dunno for sure that would be better, but it would definitely give more flavor and spice to her character than 'deliberately The Void'.

I also happen to think she's extremely attractive, thicc, with a pleasing all-blue color scheme, and her obnoxious Plain vocal tic is endearing and cute for the same reason Tenko yelling about Degenerate Males is; it's so over the top and bad that it loops around into being wildly entertaining, and I love it.

When she goes into full villain mode and starts gloating and breaking their will, that also consequently increases the hotness. I actually got a little sad with all the cosplaying, because it meant less of actual Tsumugi just being a total bastard to Succi and the others.

I love Tsumugi, she's kinda like Junko for me where you know the character has a lot of flaws but you just love them anyway

Said it before, saying it again: Bellwether of Danganronpa.

Doesn't matter how much Kodaka can achieve when making characters, if you're gonna intentionally write a shitty character, you're getting a shitty character. Tsumugi is trying to be a mindblowing antagonist who represents the meta factor of DR, but you don't get any of that until the last hour of the game, nor is there ever any hint to it in any of the previous chapters.

Sure, if you like that all she does is make anime references and fill up a character slot, that's fine. But it's gonna take a lot more than that to convince me to care about her at all. I don't care about her being the mastermind because not only is it extremely obvious what with how useless she is, but the fact that she has no synergy with the cast means she has absolutely no one to lean on for any sort of social chemistry or struggle, so literally nobody in the remaining cast could give three shits about her being the mastermind in the end. Wouldn't it be nice to have a villain who actually has synergy with the cast? Someone who actually use friendship to challenge the characters' perception of trust? But nope, have Junko Enoshima 2: The Electric Boogaloo, because who cares about writing good villains, right?

It's a shame too, because I really like her design. She's cute, has a nice color palette, and the blazer is really cool. Her cosplayer talent would be nice if her personality actually compliments it instead of being someone more akin to being called Ultimate Placeholder.

I could go on, but why waste effort on a character that never has any effort put into her anyway. So instead, here's a meme.

I like Tsumugi but I still see why "Bellwether of Danganronpa" fits.

Tsumugi Shirogane - Ultimate "Unfortunate Implications"

Holy shit what is this character?

let's start with what i don't like about this character:

basically her role in what i call: "the bad part of V3 ending"

she and the V3 ending 's the annual """"""friendly""""""" reminder fanboys and fangirls are gross and fiction makes people worse.

I mean V3-Danganronpa (her obsession) pushed 686 depressed teenagers to take part in a killing game and getting killed and umiliated in horrible ways

and the worst thing is it's realistic, there is a film called Heathers and even if it is over-the top it talks very well about how the society glorify teen suicide

The main plot, in few wrods is "a couple kills all toxic popular people in school and make is it look like suicides":

the most popular people in the school are dead, everybody's sad, but it's a weird kind of sad, suicide gave Heather depts, Kurt a soul, Ram a brain

when all suicidal kids signed for the killing game, they probably thinked their existences won't be meaningless if they take part DR, they thinked TDR could change them from "failures" to "talented DR character", and let's be real i think many teenagers would like erase their personalities and restart a new life, with new memories and a great talent, even if just for few weeks

Shuichi has right, fiction can change life, and DR changed the life of 686 teeagers, now those poor young 686 teenagers are DEAD

and even if this is definitively good writing, i really hate how Kodaka treated the normie kids, fiction ruined their lifes but it's ok because Shuichi said fiction is great because he is tecnically fictional, oh another thing we must remember the normie kids are actually the H A R S H T R U T H and they don't deserve respect because they are evil, this is a big part about Tsumugi, she is evil and everything she touches becomes evil:

Danganronpa is her passion? DR becomes the reason this killing game exists

she is similar to the normie kids? now the normie kids are just like her, gross and obsessed with DR

cospley? she used them as opportunity to make DR1/DR2 kids say mean things

so a big my problem with Tsumugi, the evil villan, the monster, the queen of the bad fanfictions, is she is supposed be like the normie kids, and IMO the normie kids deserve better

so Mugi is good but Kodaka used her in a bad way, he created a monster and said she is the representation of X

things i like about her:

even though she is evil and she one of the scummiest fictional character i have ever seen, she isn't naturally evil like Junko

V3 makes (sadly) clear she is the representation of her world, and after the AA with Keebo, it's clear why she is like that

the outside world is batshit insane, Tsumugi is probably the norm, or maybe even better than them, at least she thinked about the V3 kids like friends (she said so), while the Audience said even things like "this guy should died instead of Kaede", IIRC not even Mugi said that, just image if some sadist guys said to you that you should died instead of a person you loved

Normie-Kaede said she had no faith in her world, i agree with her the V3-world is absurdly awful and mean

so Tsumugi has the potential of being a good "grey morality villan", but Kodaka instead choose the "JUNKO IS BACK" way and made Mugi a Junko clone.

so why is Tsumugi the mastermind?

She is the fruit of her society, a society that glorify murder and suicide, living in a ancient Rome- like world, Killing Game are normal, Killing games are used by scum of the society like Team DanganRonpa for making money, killing games are also waitched by the scum of the society who finds funny and exciting seeing young people killing eachother, killing games are means used by depressed teenagers as means to escape their life- NO WAIT TSUMUGI IS THE MASTEMIND BECAUSE SHE LIKE JUNKO SO MUCH SHE WANTS BEING LIKE HER, AND SHE IS OBSESSED BY DANGANRONPA JUST LIKE JUNKO LIKES DESPAIR LOOOL

there is nothing bad in having a villan who just want be like Junko, but we have already Monaka and Mugi has so much potential for being a "grey villan"

so in few words, i would like if Tsumugi and the normie kids would be treated with a more respect and i would like if Kodaka didn't reduced their struggles to "they were evil and gross" or, even worse "they loved so much DR they wanted to die for it", living in a society that promotes sadism and teen suicides are both complicated issues

I'm gonna make this more of my thoughts of both Tsumugi and Junko.

I don't mind Tsumugi as a character if she wasn't the mastermind. She's really forgettable, contributes next to nothing to the story apart from her being the mastermind. She has a very stock personality. Making a bunch of meta plotlines and saying this is all intentional at the end of the story doesn't make her a compelling character either.

In short, Tsumugi is a terrible villain.

Junko is a pretty terrible villain too imo, so it's not Tsumugi herself, but more just the very premise of the series and the base character they have for their mastermind.

Ignoring what a copypaste it is to make your mastermind the character interested in dressing up and an offshoot of fashion culture when the main villain of the series is a fashionista, one of the big issues with making Tsumugi the mastermind is that she feels really trivialized as a villain that isn't well integrated into the narrative. In the last two games, Danganronpa has made it where the mastermind is a character in the cast, but they're essentially separated from the group. "Junko" was dead the whole time as far as they knew (later revealed to be Mukuro in disguise) so when Junko comes out as the mastermind, we don't get to learn anything or know much of anything about the villain until the very second of their reveal. If this was an ace attorney game, we don't get to see the killer before their "transformation" so to speak because what they become is so disjointed and they were so unfocused that they might as well have been a new character.

With Izuru, he's established to be the mastermind (and even then it comes up at the end of the case--Junko is essentially serves as the villain of the case for the vast majority of it even if she's not technically the main force that set everything in motion by inserting the virus in the program) and he's an entirely separate personality we dont' get to see much of. I think it's still good as a sort of cautionary tale and a strong resolution for Hajime's arc when we learn that the boy so desperate for talent traded away his personal identity for that desire, and Izuru is good in some respects, but I don't think it made for a satisfying villain overall.

Tsumugi has the same sort of problem. Unlike the previous games, the mastermind this time is a character who regularly is part of the cast and interacts with everyone. This is a great opportunity because part of what makes the hunt for the mastermind so interesting is learning what kind of person they are, what they're hiding, the kind of mask they wear before the reveal, and being able to have their true nature unfold. It doesn't really matter that Tsumugi was around the whole time because she contributes next to nothing to the story, so when she's revealed as the mastermind, it might as well have been someone at random or just had someone new brought in. Danganronpa doesn't integrate multiple chapters well, and characters often don't become relevant until the chapter they kill/are killed in, and it's no exception here.

If a character who is more dynamic like say Fuyuhiko ended up being the mastermind after we have an arc for them, there'd be a much higher payoff.

We never really have any actual motivation for the villains. Junko loves despair and just is. Tsumugi is obsessed because she is. Tsumugi works with Team Danganronpa and they wrote the whole plotline. This isn't any different and suffers the same problem DR 1 had where Junko just decided to end the world because. DR1 suggests more that ultimate despair as a whole was responsible and not necessarily Junko herself since she was just a member, and then DR 2 made it concrete that Junko herself destroyed the world. I just don't really feel there's anything beyond "obsessed fashion girl decided to be the mastermind because she's obsessed with X and we're not going to explore why."

Now I know what's coming next, and literally every single time I bring up this point, I get the point that it's meant to be that way and it's intentional. I always get the comparison that Junko/Tsumugi is like the Joker from Batman. I think in DR 1 and to a degree 2, Junko worked alright. There's a lot I really like about her and a lot I really dislike about her.

With a series like Batman, the Joker is a crazy guy without much motivation that goes beyond wanting to spread chaos. However, he's different from Junko in that he's contrasted with a much more complicated character in Batman. He's also developed through how we see the targets of his abuse function. There are entire arcs of characters who have their lives ruined by the Joker, and we also see how Batman's sense of morality and his own beliefs come into play when pitted against a chaotic force like Joker. It's the key difference between Junko and the Joker. Junko and Tsumugi might be obsessive and not have much motive to it, but the protagonists aren't really complicated or interesting enough to make a sufficient sense of conflict, and the games themselves don't really have really compelling enough themes since it really comes down to hope/future/lies/truth said about 50 times. If you have a more grounded theme to work with, use the targets of the villain's abuse to work, or have a complicated enough protagonist to pit against the villain, then you can get away with a more nonsensical crazy villain.

I suspected Tsumugi might be the mastermind as early as the first chapter when they established her ability and the cast questions her if she could disguise as someone else. It was pretty much solidified for me early chapter 2. I know a number of people say she was obvious because she didn't really contribute anything else to the story. I noticed she didn't do much, but I didn't find it out of place because it wouldn't be the first time a character did next to nothing despite surviving so long in Danganronpa, and they could have had her suddenly be relevant in pretty much any chapter. I suspected Tsumugi early on more because of the Danganronpa formula.

The end of the game generally has the same pool of relevant characters come up. There's a character who dies early on who suspiciously becomes relevant again, even if they're a red herring ("Junko," Ultimate Imposter, Rantaro), the ultimate ??? (Kyoko, Hajime, Rantaro), an extra character introduced late in the story that seems to maybe be the mastermind (Mukuro, Makoto, Kaede's twin sister), and the one that led me to suspect Tsumugi, there's always a character involving some kind of disguise who comes back into play. Mukuro disguised herself as Junko, he was a red herring, but the UI is essentially an ultimate disguiser, so when they established that Tsumugi can cosplay and they raise the possibility of her being able to disguise as other students, I immediately thought she'd be relevant to chapter 6 because she set off a flag to fit that formula. With other disguiser characters, they don't bring up anything about the fact that they can disguise until late in the game, so chapter 5 or 6. With Mukuro, it ended up being the reveal that shows us who the mastermind is. With the UI, they show it to us early to throw us off the trail since he ultimately didn't do anything but comes up again in case 5 and makes a very solid form of misdirection, but with Tsumugi, because it comes up in the first chapter, I find it a lot more suspect.

Much like Junko, Tsumugi just mostly flips between different character sprites the way Junko flips personalities on a dime, and it's mostly to mask the fact that they don't really have anything of real substance to work with. The killing game is big in scale and from a narrative standpoint, there's not really much reason to justify its own existence, so the only way they can really pull it off is to just have a psycho for a mastermind and have them do it essentially for the hell of it. It's hard to pull off with a killing game setup, but Danganronpa has trouble justifying its own existence. I don't think that excuses making a villain who just sort of shows up. It feels like you could just copy paste any character you want at the end of the case because there's no real complicated path getting there. Tsumugi is essentially Junko without actually addressing any of Junko's shortcomings as a villain.

She doesn't add much to the story without the mastermind reveal, but I still don't mind Tsumugi that much, but I don't think the villain gallery of Danganronpa is that great. there's also the fact that the entire setup of making it confined to a killing game makes the villain feel very trivialized. V3-5's entire premise banks on Monokuma cooperating with the killer...to fool Monokuma. the whole case falls apart if Monokuma doesn't allow a participant to be in the exisal, and I get that it's done to lead to the "we're playing along for the ratings because it's all a show" twist, but I think that has the effect of really trivializing the villain and not making it as satisfying to go up against them.

It happens in chapter 6 as well when the villain is literally handing you clues to who they are through Motherkuma, Monokuma himself, having everything handed to you, and everything. It's so that the railroading of the game fits and the case can be solvable, but it has the effect of making the villain feel really underwhelming and unsatisfying. Most of the culprits in DR just shout a lot and freak out or say "you don't have proof of X" and that's the extent of resistance the culprits/masterminds have. It feels pretty weak when the mastermind is literally giving you evidence that directly implicates them and then the game has to turn around and make it possible to catch them.

I get that the mastermind lets them explore everything in the name of fairness, but it doesn't mesh well.

(Ryoma is next! I'm finally gonna praise a V3 character!)

She was ok. She did basically nothing notable for the first 5 and 3/4 of the game.

Her reveal at the end was ok and I can see why it could be shocking. But since Tsumugi was mostly just kinda...there, her reveal wasn't as shocking. Like say if the mastermind was Shuichi or some shit, now that would be shocking. But Tsumugi on the the other hand didn't really contribute enough to really make this shock have much impact in my opinion.

I think the way that they handled one of the pieces of evidence for Tsumugi really rubbed me the wrong way though. I'm talking about the Motherkuma scene where they ask it to give birth to a monokuma. I don't know, just...the way they handled that was just really dumb. The scene felt really drawn out, as well as the obvious point towards Tsumugi during this scene. It was kinda like them going; "Did you catch it? Did you figure out what's wrong here?" throughout the whole thing, and it felt more like they spent more time coming up with a piece of evidence against her rather than a scene that felt natural.

Overall I didn't really necessarily like or dislike her, even considering the whole mastermind thing. Throughout most of the game she was present, but didn't contribute much to trials, or really anything up until the 6th chapter.

:p

Kind of difficult to add anything here that hasn't already been put better.

I've heard some people look back on V3 as "the game that introduced so much potential with each chapter yet always shied away from actually fulfilling that potential." I guess Tsumugi is kind of the poster child to that sentiment. We have a fully aware mastermind hidden amongst the group that doesn't actually die early on, all this potential to create a character that the rest of the cast and the player bond with, so we get that genuine felling of betrayal at the end that this series so often aims for. Almost every blackened reveal is treated as the huge betrayal of the group's trust, meanwhile we're always forced to remind ourselves "aren't you guys complete strangers that just met a few days ago?" This was the best opportunity this franchise will ever get to achieve the real betrayal affect...and they squandered it.

Tsumugi had about one legitimate bond with a character (Gonta) which didn't really go anywhere. They didn't even have the time to give her a particular despairing reaction to his execution.

The immediate defence to the idea that she should've been more involved in the events of the game is that it's not fair for the mastermind to take sides and help the others catch the blackened. Couple of problems with this; one, the mastermind reveal only comes after we've already proven that she isn't impartial. So I don't really see how we can dispel this notion anymore than it already is. Secondly, if she wants to pass herself off as a member of the group, then trying to fight for her life as much as everyone else is just the best way to do that. If she really doesn't want to show favouritism, than why be there at all?

So yeah, can't really analyse anything she does through the majority of the game with a fresh perspective because it will just be a rehash of what everyone has already said. So let's skip to her reveal as the mastermind. The impact is immediately lost when the betrayal is something I wanted to happen. She was on the verge of being another Hagakure/Soda/Akane except each of them at contributed to at least one thing that no one else in their respective groups could do, they still felt like they were contextualised into the story. Tsumugi's defining moment was seeing Miu out of a window. Anyone could've done it and it wouldn't have made a lick of difference. So, I wanted her to betray us just so that it may redeem her character.

...And it kind of did? Let me explain.

In terms of who is the better mastermind; Junko or Tsumugi? I'd say Junko was more surprising, but Tsumugi made more sense, at least if we're going off of their first outings, Junko got more fleshed out with future instalments but the initial unveiling was just...unsatisfying.

Whilst I don't know if the story Tsumugi goes with is real or not, I don't find it unbelievable. We're only a few years removed from when the Hunger Games franchise was at the peak of its popularity. So a killing game with participants that want to be a part of it isn't really a foreign concept to me. Good villains are kind of subjected to the Goldilocks principle, where their actions and motivations have to make sense, but not too much sense that the player/audience is more inclined to side with them other the protagonists. I think Tsumugi occupies this line passably for a single outing.

Once she's in the mastermind role, she does what we expect. She makes the group feel despair, implies they never had any free will, TAKES CONTROL OF KEEBO AND ERASE HIS PERSONALITY! (Maki, fetch the knives!) She legitimately makes me hate her which is the point.

Now I wanna address the claims that she is an incompetent villain, or at least more incompetent than Junko. I've seen people justify Junko's mistakes because her despair fetish gives her a desire to see her own plans fail. I think if this is a legitimate enough fallback for Junko, then it's legitimate enough for Tsumugi too. I generally got the impression that she wanted the group to vote for her, how could I not, when she literally takes control of Keebo to try and force him to vote? Why leave the combination for the Survivor's vote out in the open if the group was never supposed to open it? I think everything unveiled in chapter 6 was meant to be unveiled except how one becomes the Ultimate Survivor. That's the one detail that Monokuma and Tsumugi clam up about in the final trial, when beforehand they were happy to provide all this exposition.

I'll happily admit that if it wasn't for her pulling out all the stocks in the final chapter with the Keebo thing, I probably wouldn't be this generous. And it definitely doesn't justify the wasted potential of what could've been and the 5 previous chapters of utter nothingness that she provided. But...I can say that they could've done worse by her.

What can I say about ol' plain Tsumugi?

I don't really like her but that's mainly because she did her job as an antagonist really well, so I can appreciate that in a way. As an antagonist, I definitely enjoyed her more than Junko who just became more and more bland with each new DR appearance that she had. I like the theme that Tsumugi represented and how she tried to break the cast (and the player) in the last trial, one of the reasons why I consider V3-6 to be the best final chapter of any DR game.

From chapter 1 to chapter 5, Tsumugi was basically a background character, not being part of any major storyline and just being there. I disagree with people who say that fact made it obvious that she was the one behind it all because then characters like Sonia, Hagakure, Soda and Akane would've been the masterminds of their respective killing games. Tsumugi's FTE were...plain, for a lack of a better word but the fact that she lied about her choice of underwear is an interesting foreshadowing that kind of shows that not everything she says is actually 100% trustworthy.

TL;DR - Based on her character from chapter 1 to 5 and her FTE, Tsumugi would feel like another Akane to me. The twist in chapter 6 helps to bring a much needed relevance to her character and makes her into a solid antagonist that you love to hate.

but the fact that she lied about her choice of underwear is an interesting foreshadowing that kind of shows that not everything she says is actually 100% trustworthy.

I think this actually technically isn't completely a lie (though it's probably maybe meant to be taken as one either way). The description for her underwear does say "She usually wears plain panties, but these are for special occasions."

I guess a killing game is a special occasion.

I mean she especifically says that she is so plain that her current underwear is white but as we know every V3 student has sets of the same clothes in their wardrobe and as we see Tsumugi's current underwear was of the sexy black kind instead of the plain white one. So in a way she still kind of lied.

I guess a killing game is a special occasion.

That line too, related with her choice of underwear, is pretty telling.

She is one of the most boring characters in this game tbh, even if that is the intention of her character, her FTEs are also pretty bland, which is unfortunate since some characters in previous games who didn't do much in the story had amazing FTEs as their saving point (I.E Akane and Kazuichi) and her role as a mastermind, while it was unique for her talent, it was also lazy in a way, like she has to be previous characters in order to be intresting, while with Junko she had her own special personality that makes her an entertaining villain, If we strip away Tsumugi's ability to be previous characters she would be just as bland as she was in the story. Really the only Saving point for her is that i think she was part of the killing game Rantaro was in (V2) and she was partners with him, otherwise she'll just be this really bland character with nothing intresting.

Edit: Also on a additional note, she has to cheat at the very beggining of the killing game in order to start it by killing Rantaro and pinning the blame on Kaede, and while i do agree that Junko cheated aswell, that only happend later into the killing game not at the start.

I don't like her. She set up and executed Kaede :(

She was used in a cool way tho to show all of the past characters in the series.

Oh boy... Tsumugi... I hate plain Tsumugi but also kind of like mastermind Tsumugi. Unfortunately, she's one of the few characters I can call bad.

She's a combination of the worst traits of Sonia and Yasuhiro, in the sense that she makes constant references that aren't funny and does almost nothing in the plot until her mastermind reveal. Her lack of contribution is especially noticeable during the fifth trial where she does nothing there too, and it really sticks out since everyone does something that contributes to the case.

Her personality is... Well, she's honest, she's plain. Granted she's obsessed with manga/anime, she can be kind(?). Not much to say, except that all because she admits she's plain, doesn't mean it's fixed, it's still an issue. Her backstory is okay though.

The only good quality I find is her mastermind phase. She is really entertaining as the mastermind, obsessed over Danganronpa to the point of being part of it and wanting others to kill each other. That's a really cool aspect. However, not only does her persona beforehand kind of ruin it, but as a mastermind she's nothing compared to Junko. Compared to Junko, we witnessed Junko as Monokuma and got a slice of her personality throughout the entire game. As a plot twist villain, it worked since we got to know Monokuma throughout the game, not to mention it's not that obvious of a twist. Tsumugi on the other hand, is pretty obvious with her constant lack of doing stuff. It's sad too because imagine if anyone else was the mastermind, Himiko, Keebo, Maki, those would of been soul crushing. Instead, we get a plain character that most players wouldn't care about all that much (granted that's speculation).

To summarize, she's a bad character and a bad mastermind. Her mastermind personality is cool, and her backstory is okay, but that's about it. She's still not my most disliked V3 character, but she's close to the bottom of my list.

I dunno why but i think she's kinda hot when she goes insane.

I think she's hot the whole time

So many strong feelings and so much verbose analysis of a 'plane Jane poorly written' character. What I wonder is if it would have been more obvious she was the mastermind if she was more fleshed out and integrated into the story. I personally liked her because i have a glasses fetish.

Think about it, if you were the Mastermind, I'm pretty sure you'd act the same as Tsumugi.

Best girl

​Just to be clear, this post can be considered as a "double essay" of sorts, as it concerns not only Shirogane's character, but also talks about the whole thing Chapter 6 tries to do, which themes tie also into the whole game and Shirogane as well.

Concerning our plainly Plain Jane weabo Junkofag imitator that consists to be the successor to the original Big Bad ? I like her lots, despite a few things that could've been done better. Now, overall on my personal preference for the Big Bads of this, while Monaka still takes the crown for me, I first thought that Shirogane would follow, but I consider now her on the same ground as Junko, and while I felt Shirogane's role in V3 for a Big Bad worked better in context, I felt she kinda lacked for moments that were with Junko, who was I felt more entertaining and especially hilarious with almost every line.

Speaking of which (since it's still V3 we're talking about after all), the funniest thing about Shirogane is where she mostly comes from mostly, since, let's be honest : she's literally Junko. But, at the same time she's actually Not-Junko. She's so similar yet so different from her predecessor that, even if recycled a bit, there is a definite line that is crossed. Here's why she's so similar (please note that for these I keep the Junko we know from DR1, since it's a more fair comparaison to do) :

Like Junko, she's very obsessed with a certain thing dear to her (fiction and DR VS despair),
Like Junko, most of her actual backstory is kept ambiguous,
Like Junko, she decides on a dual vote between Vote and Despair at some point in the final trial and that involves two persons at least,
Like Junko, she switches between multiple masks on spot, and while for Shirogane it's her cosplays, Junko has her multiple personalities.
Possibly NSFW?
However.....

Unlike Junko who's the SHSL Analyst and a genius at predicting everything and allows herself (with her thing for ZETSUBOU), Shirogane is just a normal plain girl, which allows then for more unintentional mistakes this time around (with her thing for FIKUSHION)
Unlike Junko who's at the top of her own organisation, Shirogane, despite being a mastermind for a killing game, is just an element of Team Danganronpa
Unlike Junko who acts all over-the-top, very in-your-face as this Force of Nature villain, Shirogane is more "aloof", less direct, more quiet and such.
She's the first character the protagonists meet (when the game actually begins) while Junko is the last character you meet in her game.
Now, her having those parallels could be fine if you make something cool out of it, and like I said before, it works for what the game wants. Now I don't excuse the "I use meta reasons to justify my bad writing and why I don't bother to change/upgrade my formula" cuz that's pissing me off kinda, but to be honest ? Nerdy girl who just wants to repeat the same thing as her fictive idol and by that does a shitty fanfic with zero effort that just happens to be this game's plot ? Hilarious AF, I might be biased but I laughed so hard here. It's still would've been better to not have just everything suddenly being a lie (coming to that in a second), but that was at least a better direction to just put V3 on his own universe, with the Kibougamine arc being fictional in the universe of V3 with the TV show (since, no, not everything that happened before in the series is just meaningless, that's entirely false, it's separate in this case). Shirogane I feel can work well, but since it's V3, there isn't any good scenario that makes good advantage of her character.

Take her murder scheme for example. At least the good thing to come of it is that this way, Akamatsu doesn't feel as stupid as people would've thought she was back in Chapter 1 as here in Chapter 6 it gives more ample detail on it, but it's still a bit of a copout with that excuse of a mystery we get. Normally a secret passage doesn't just serve as a cheat answer for the solution, it can be used to make things more complex (see : 2-4). When Shirogane ends up being cornered, what arguments she throws in ? "It wasn't me" "Believe in me" "But there was also [two persons, one dead and one very unlikely] who had no alibi". Gah. People were complaining on bringing Junko in SDR2 again, but one of the best parts was that she had a counter argument for literally everything thrown her way before FUTURE came in place. And it wasn't even a mystery in that trial.

Just to go in quick on the fact that she was just there the whole game without having any deep connections to anyone. I wasn't really fan of her character, but Sonia has something that could work well for Shirogane I feel, coupled with the mastermind twist. Sonia had this thing to be worried for most people on the island and sticking up to most of the culprits (four of them) as she couldn't believe that they would do such a thing and as the game went on she became more and more tired like everyone to doubt each other. They began to have something like this for Shirogane with Gonta kinda.... but it was only in Chapter 4 and before they barely even made a connection between the two, just a bunch of optional dialogue. I'm not saying they should absolutely make something with Gonta (other characters especially the girls would make a way better fit IMO). You could make Shirogane prolly not believe that some would kill others and make her stand up for it, for example, for in the end make it turn like she only cared about her FIKUSHIÔN, and this would make a hell of an impact.

Some things I haven't seen for Shirogane that in my opinion really boost her character are for example her FTE. Call me biased, but those are some of the best in the game for me, as they really feel (for both protagonists this time) like you're having an actual conversation with a pal of yours and their passions and such (felt better for the five FTE you get with her rather than just BACKSTORY REVEAL for four events and the fifth involves the MC finally throwing a few supporting lines). Special mention for the Akamatsu one when they both realize they need a new hobby and become so desperate to find one. It's hilarious.

There is also another complaint that is more fitting to, say, most of the cast, but thinking about it, Shirogane's talent could've been a great asset in, say, solving the mysteries, for example. This will be one of the only instances I will bring that up but I'd Trade My Life For Yours - Fanfic Spoilers. I'm not saying not to use that exact example, but you could make better uses of disguises like that rather than Cospox (don't get me started on that) or not use that in the last chapters like when other games also involved a character who disguised themselves (that's a nitpick kinda), but, even if I enjoyed her, Shirogane had more potential to do and while she was memorable enough for me, that seems hard to say for most.

At worst, Tsumugi's a boring reference spouter who does nothing and makes unfunny, unrelated jokes all the time.
At best, Tsumugi's a balls to the walls over the top entertaining antagonist, who still needs other personalities that aren't even hers as a crutch to be fun.

Pre-6 Tsumugi is fucking bad. She doesn't do anything of note and her references seem more like a excuse to give her lines than actual writing. That's the only way they'd get her to say anything because for anything else any other character can deliver the message in a better way. She's never involved enough to get a chance to shine, but it's not like she does anything with her limited screentime either.

When you get to chapter 6, however, things change. I'm not gonna say she gets much better though. If you look past the huge twists and turns that are happening, Tsumugi is the typical energetic, cackling, evil witch you've certainly seen before. This isn't to say she doesn't work, i love Junko, but Junko has presence, which is what i value the most in a villain. Junko's terrifying because her influence just bleeds through the series and yet she's still entertaining when she's on screen, she's a force of chaos. Tsumugi's a employee of Team Danganronpa. A high-ranking employee, but still. She can be fun to watch being ridiculously over the top and it's clear her favorite costume is Junko's, so she has some synergy with herself in that regard. This time, her lines hit their mark as she's supposed to drive the main cast into darkness, but they're very typical still. The delivery makes it work, and her different costumes help drive the point and get some variety in there, but besides that, Tsumugi isn't a noteworthy villain. Junko is ridiculously memorable even if by force, she's one of the most important parts of the franchise and absolutely steals the spotlight with sheer presence whenever she wants to even if she isn't even part of the screen or story(Despair Girls comes to mind) yet Tsumugi needs Junko and the others as a crutch to compensate for her barebones evil witch personality. When you think about chapter 6, you're gonna remember the fiction twist, the themes, the execution, and you're not even gonna remember Tsumugi as the main villain, you're gonna think of K1-BO's audience surrogate role and Team DR as the most impactful villainous roles, not Tsumugi, because Tsumugi's just a representative of Team DR and is there to deliver messages rather than to steal the spotlight and mark her presence like Junko.

Tsumugi is plain to the very, very end.

If you'd like to skip my FILTHY GODWIN DEVILS tier level of ranting, here's my summarized opinion on Tsumugi: Ǝ--- ಠ_ಠ.

Now, with that out of the way...Tsumugi isn't just my least favorite character of the V3 cast, she's probably my least favorite of the entire DR franchise. Reason being:

1) She utterly fails as a character to interest me: Before you start arguing that Tsumugi was boring on purpose, I'm going to have to stop you there and say that she's just as boring, insipid and dull as the 'mastermind' (And boy, you'll hear more about this at the end- Mark my words) as she was in the first five chapters, and even before I was spoiled on who she was she felt like a fake. It's incredible to me that Kodaka apparently took the trouble to interview cosplayers so that she'd come across as someone authentic and real and he forgets that for a character to come off as more 3D than 2D they need to have depth to them and of course Tsumugi is like a nothing in this section. She apparently has such a love for fiction that she basically develops no connection to the supposedly fictional cast, doesn't fiddle with props and the like when she could arguably at least tinker with things or wonder about her lab...and so her defining characteristic itself is already severely underplayed in my opinion. I actually do like her more in the anthologies, so nice job Kodaka of making her such a nothing that the takes of her fans do a much better job of making her fun, if still utterly inconsequential as a character.

Speaking of which, as my favorite series tend to be super meta (Gintama, Zettai Karen Children etc.) Tsumugi already gets an extra strike for not even being amusingly bland like characters such as Shinpachi and Yamazaki from the former and Kokichi impressed me much more in the 'Smashing the fourth wall' department.

2) She doesn't make meaningful connections: Writing issues aside the three survivors are supposed to stand out because they were meaningfully changed by someone who died, and Tsumugi again comes off like a nothing here because she more or less just appears to drift and seems like a poor copy of others rather than someone who has her own needs, wants and way of life besides fiction...which according to her doesn't even leave an impact, so what in the world does she even live for?

3) Her impact comes from copying others, not from anything she does as Tsumugi: Like I said, Tsumugi as a character leaves no impact on me because she feels more like an imitation and flat character than anyone else in the cast (And that's saying something), and this sentiment is doubled with how she cosplays the DR1 and SDR2 cast to...uh, apparently inflict despair because your anime waifus aren't real. Well, that presents a problem on two levels: I already know my waifus and husbandos are fictional, and DR isn't a series that really made me feel much of anything until Kokichi showed up so on that front it's already failed, and on the other level I'm like ??? about why I should care if Shuichi's anime waifu don't real. No really, the only way the ending could bring despair to me is if...

4) Tsumugi is lying, and therefore she's even MORE meaningless: I've mentioned before that V3's ending has sinister undertones like 1984 ('You don't exist' <-> 'You're fictional') and if that were the case it'd be horrific even by DR standards. Only problem is, if that was the case Tsumugi would have to be a completely nutty nutcase apparently trying to convince you that this is totally just a TV show, their characters were written and so on...which I'm not buying in the first place because her ONE attempt at fixing the plot with Monokuma unavailable clearly shows she knows fucking nothing to introduce all of those plot holes. And...to be honest, I'm almost certain too it's not a coincidence that the plot fixing attempt copies Kokichi's mastermind speech a bit too much.

5) Tsumugi's motivations are stupid, and she's stupid: Junko at least is bona fide evil and owns it. Tsumugi in the meanwhile wants to infect the world with fictional despair and apparently this is supposed to happen because idiotic high school students sign up to kill each other, voluntarily. Oh, let's not forget how apparently she helped with the 'show' for 53 seasons and the game nearly ended in chapter 1 itself, nice going there.

She also contradicts herself pretty blatantly like when she says the world is peace itself and she can die with pride as a cosplaycat criminal, so because I don't believe she's anything but a giant red herring for the REAL mastermind who's much more cunningly hidden, there's only one thing I remember her for...

6) Making discussing this game at all a headache: Despite her claims being flimsier than torn and soaked toilet paper after being dunked into a pool five times and evidence like the game crashing when Monokuma is trapped on top of how he made the Flashback Lights, I feel like getting out the left-handed pitchfork whenever people say things like 'Tsumugi wrote the characters!' (Even when she reduced Kokichi's character to a 'Junko fan'?), 'Tsumugi made the Flashback Lights!' (Yeah no, this is LITERALLY proven to be false) and they fail to address the alternate possibility that Tsumugi was possibly the second survivor of V2 and brainwashed into becoming the ringleader to be finished off in V3, which would explain why Monokuma can act on his own since she was never supposed to be running the show as she's a mere puppet 'made' to be the obligatory Junko at the end.

To sum it up, Tsumugi was boring to me from A to Z, she's only interesting to me if she really was in V2, her obsession with fiction makes no goddamned sense and even less so considering there was no real need to make kids kill each other, she makes V3 basically look like an inconsequential story if she's telling the truth (And don't even think of parroting the whole 'Fiction having meaning' thing at me unless you want to invite even more ranting on that), she's not amusing, she's not sexy, she's not funny enough to make up for her lack of anything, and if at anything the nonsense she spouted about people killing themselves over vidya was even more fictional than most fiction out there and I'm including fiction with ice-breathing dragons in a modern world (Which probably doesn't exist yet, but even that would be more plausible than what she said).

There's just one more thing to add: I'm pretty sure based on her comments on perfect reproductions and the like that her real talent is the Ultimate Copycat.

I've already spoiled myself on Ch.6 but I'm not going to comment on what happens in it or Tsumugi's Ch6 personality until I play it myself.

Tsumugi in Ch 1-5... what am I supposed to say? She's the character equivalent of watching paint dry, boring as shit and by far the least entertaining character in the game.

She has no interesting relationships with any character. Her defining moment is spotting Miu outside a window, wow. She spouts cringey anime references in an "attempt" to be... funny I think? Jesus christ TENKO is funnier than her.

Her personality and design are super plain, I don't care if that's intentional and I don't get why people defend characters using this argument. Just because it's intentional doesn't mean you have to like it.

Oh and if her reveal as the mastermind is supposed to be shocking or something then why the fuck isn't Tsumugi made to be interesting before Ch6?

Looking at it from a logical standpoint what would be the more shocking reveal, someone who is plain, has no meaningful relationships that you didn't give a fuck about being the mastermind or someone who is actually interesting that you cared about being the mastermind?

People have pointed out that by process of elimination it's so blindingly obvious that Tsumugi is the mastermind that blind people can see it because she's done NOTHING of note at any point.

And judging from the comments about chapter 6 I don't think my opinion of her will increase at all.

She's responsible for Keebo's death and thus she must burn.

But in all seriousness, the one thing I can say I like about her is her mastermind sprites. Those expressions are pretty great.

A cutie. Sometimes I wonder whether it would be better for her character if she embraced her love for Danganronpa a little more openly, like writing herself into a certain important role during the game and then trying to justify her love for it to Shuichi. But then again that could have made her a little way too sympathetic or suspicious, I don't know.

Tsumugi is.... well she's unique. Because of her alone DRV3 turned from your standard DR game to a game that has made you think over and over on what the fuck happened. She represents the outside world in that they are bored and want something entertaining. That something is a very long and complicated game of Who Dunnit basically. She turns from this quiet kind cosplayer to a mastermind who cares more for her entertainment and pleasing the outside world with no care for her fellow classmates/victims. As a mastermind Tsumugi represented not only lies(which is a more Kokichi thing) but also represents fiction and how it doesn't have much influence. This is find to be strange especially for Tsumugi who as a cosplayer should know more about fiction than anyone else. I guess as a cosplayer she sees her cosplay as escaping to another world in stead of something that can change the world she lives in. However Tsumugi did do good and overall made you thing not only about Danganronpa but Fiction in general. That is to say whenever I see a mastermind I feel like they should be disconnected from the main bunch like Junko was in DR1. However while I felt the distance in Chapter 6's trial at the end she kinda felt like another student. I honestly feel that Tsumugi, just like everyone else was brainwashed into the character she is now. I mean she was exposed to the flashback light in the beginning so IDK?

But anyway now to her story role. Chapters 1-5 showed us how extremely useless she was in anything. Now of course this was to hint at her being the mastermind since you she didn't do anything but let me summarize what she did. She went to the bathroom in Chapter 1 to kill Rantaro, got abducted by Gonta in Chapter 2, joined Angie's student council, saw Miu in Chapter 4, and did nothing in Chapter 5 except trick Maki into attacking Kokichi which ultimately ended in her fucking up. Basically her contributions in class trials are abysmal to say the least. Her best contributions were random anime references and being with someone for an alibi. Hell even in Chapter 4 she could have easily shot down Shuichi's whole argument and make him a fool because he would have to pass her in the dining hall. While Tsumugi would not do that I just find it frustrating that she can't even do a simple rebuttal. Hell even when she was being accused of killing Rantaro all she did was beg for everyone to reconsider. So even though she was the mastermind of this entire killing game I still feel like she should have done something to help and not just take space. I guarantee you that a sack of flour would do a better job than her in trials.

Of course when you take away her total effect on the story she is actually a nice person. I also like how simple her design is compared to everyone else. She makes funny anime references and acts as the strait woman to a lot of jokes. And she even gets you to scratch your head on the game itself. I'm pretty sure people have a harder time figuring out Tsumugi than Kokichi. With Kokichi we have clues and confirmation on who he is. Tsumugi on the other hand has no confirmation and has left people questioning who the hell she is. By the way just to make my stance I still believe that she was brainwashed.

In the end Tsumugi is just confusing for me as she is to a lot of people. She is a funny person to be with but don't expect her to help you solve something as simple as a crossword.

Don't @ me

???

dude, i know we don't like each other but i'm gonna be honest. even if all of your speculations come true, they won't change everyone's opinions. they will never make everyone like ouma nor hate tsumugi. imo tsumugi is as interesting as a roll of tissue paper but reading stuff here was a good eye opener for how people saw her. is it really impossible for you to see that even if what you're saying is true somehow happens, people would still like her?

Character Discussion #70 - Ryoma Hoshi (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


i really like ryoma! i think he has one of the most unique, understated, sad stories in any of the games.

it's a common enough opinion to believe that ryoma doesn't have a proper arc, or has an arc interrupted. i think that's because of the nature of how most danganronpa characters are written. character development in danganronpa tends to revolve around self-improvement. meek characters become self-actualized (makoto). frightened characters become more resolute (himiko). chilly personalities thaw (kyoko), assholes become kind (fuyuhiko), and everyone, everyone grows from the deaths of their friends.

but for me, the story of ryoma is a tragedy about someone struggling with their demons and ultimately losing. when we meet ryoma, he's deeply lonely, depressed, and self-loathing. it's a shame, because he seems like a lovely person, but from the jump, the guy's already decided he has nothing to live for, and the killing game only compounds those bad feelings. he even offers himself up as a sacrifice in round one, though thankfully no one takes him up on it. so he mopes around for a while but a few instances come up -- his scuffle with kaito, the introduction of the flashback lights -- that change his perspective. he's not totally a happy camper, but he's coming around that there may be better ways forward than hating himself and actively rooting on his own death. he flirts with the idea of joining the group dynamic, and even cracks a smile or two.

unfortunately, dude decides that the one last thing that would tip him over to the light side for good is getting a peek at his motive video and seeing with his own eyes that he has something concrete to live for. because monokuma is an utter asshole, there's no loved one in ryoma's video, and he spirals anew. the timing couldn't be worse, because kirumi has seen her video as well, and is now clawing at the exit doors. being one of the more cunning members of the class, she knows that her best bet is to track down the student who already offered his life up on a platter once, and manipulate him into doing the same thing again. sad exit for a sad soul.

i dunno, for a series as hyperstylized and affected as danganronpa, i find ryoma's story surprisingly realistic. depression is a beast and feelings of worthlessness don't go away overnight. in a universe where characters like ryoma, flawed but kindhearted, tend to triumph over their internal turmoil, seeing him do his best and fail was affecting and unique.

I agree with your analysis! That's why I was so sad to see him go in chapter 2. I really wish we could have seen more of his character, maybe see him integrate into the group and survive the killing game. But his end is also really fitting, compared to some of the other murders, with his newfound despair due to the video, so it was pretty appropriate for him to die. Out of all the characters in this game, I like his story arc the most.

Hits the nail on the head, Ryoma was one of the few ones which could be seen as completely realistic, he didn't overstay anything, had his fair amount of focus, and died. He didn't need to live long to work even if there was a slim chance of it happening, and it is a perfect reminder of what despair can do to someone which is one of the focal points of the series and had at the very least a top 5 natural arc even if it ends in tragedy.

i mean, as completely realistic as a tennis anime pastiche who got put on death row for killing a bunch of mobsters with a steel ball and eventually gets fed to piranhas during a magic show could be, yes.

for real tho i'm just being obtuse. i know your point is that his character development plays out in a fairly realistic way and yes i agree, especially compared to students like makoto or himiko or maki who tend to have the trajectories of their characters spelled out in huge flashing lights.

Given danganronpa the detailed events like that are par for the course so I didn't think about that too much :p

Ryoma was different in that he was someone short who wasn't "forced" into anything that wasn't necessary and for how he was used he was done it in the best way compared to how other characters were used in their routes, kinda hard to compare that but Ryoma's fits so well.

I agree, the first time i saw him, i thought he had a lot of room for development (like him realising his life isn't as meaningless as he thinks or him finding his so called "reason to live"), his voice is deep as the Marianas and i love it and he plays a sport i liked (and gives his talent a really obscure turn, which he loathes)

Well... on the bright-side he starts to by the end of his FTEs and in Salmon Mode even if it's not canon I still preferred for Ryoma. At the very least he starts trying to think more positive and trying his best to move on.

Part 1 of 2

Despite not living for all that long, I think everyone can agree that Ryoma is a cool dude.

I think what I appreciate most about Ryoma's character at first glance is how the writers subverted the usual formula for the goofy looking characters in the series by treating him seriously. In DR1 we had Hifumi. In DR2 we had Teruteru. In DR0 we had Yuto. All three of these characters fall into the same trope about how they are all creepy perverts. Essentially, all three characters were meant to serve as comic relief, but their humor fell flat in a lot of people's eyes and as such became unpopular within the community. I might as well throw in Bandai from DR3 into this mix because he also has the goofy character design of the cast. Problem is is that Bandai doesn't even have a personality beyond spouting nonsensical metaphors and having a girly voice. He also has like....4 lines total before he dies. I think Ryoma was one of the least popular characters when the cast was first unveiled because he belonged in that same cursed group of characters. The bug eyes, the 3'5 height, that weird as hell hat and so on. Thankfully, the writers took a leap and gave Ryoma a cool backstory and hard boiled personality. I feel that the only other time where the writers turned a character who looked like a joke character into someone serious was the Imposter back in DR2 so I hope this kind of trend between the two stays throughout the series because it is way better than just slapping on an obnoxious personality to the already weird looking character just to fill up a slot.

Of course this discussion is about Ryoma's entire character and not first impressions, so what do I think about Ryoma Hoshi? He was enjoyable and probably even ranks in the upper half of the V3 cast.

One of Ryoma's most attractive qualities has to be his personality and how cool and composed he is. Like Chapter 1-2 Maki, I found Ryoma to be an endearing character because of just how grounded he was with reality. Having a rougher life than the rest of the cast, Ryoma feels extremely mature and thoughtful when handling the killing game. There are two instances of this trait of his that really stand out to me. The first instance has to be in the prologue when Monokuma announces the killing game. Amidst all the confusion and fear, Ryoma gets straight to the point and asks Monokuma if they will be handed weapons. Ryoma's reason to asking this was to get information out of Monokuma in regards to the environment they will be living in. It's a smart move considering that everyone else was pretty much panicked. The second instance was when the time limit was about to run out in Chapter 1 and Ryoma willingly proposed the idea to sacrifice himself in order to aid the killer into finding help in the real world so that they can rescue the rest of the students from the killing game. I really appreciate this moment because, even though Ryoma is pretty distant to the rest of the characters, he's still willing to take one for the team and help them out which shows how caring of a person he is despite building himself up as a soulless killer to the others.

Another trait that I like about, as I have mentioned, is his caring side. His supportive trait isn't as prominent as someone like Tenko or Kaito, but if you read between the lines, you can see that Ryoma says some deep stuff and gives important life advice to others. I remember there being a post that highlighted a bunch of motivational quotes made by Ryoma, but I will list them here.

"The best thing to do is live life with confidence."

"People who judge based on looks are everywhere. I say, let them talk."

"Taking care of yourself should be your number one priority."

"It seems like you've got good friends.... that's a valuable thing to have."

"This world can be too big and bright for eyes that have spent too long staring down. So be careful. Don't let your eyes deceive you...."

I find it pretty ironic how Ryoma, someone who is dealing with depression, has a lot of positive thoughts going through his mind and cares enough to share those thoughts to people around him. It also indicates how Ryoma still has some hope left in him in how he wants others to appreciate what they have and what they can learn, which I find to be sweet.

I feel that, in terms of personality, Ryoma is one of my favorites from the cast. His composed and smooth talking attitude makes for someone that is easy to talk to in the wake of the crazy events of the killing game. I guess if I had to summarize his personality and what I like about, it would be that he gives off a feeling of calmness and relaxation whenever I get to talk to him. Funnily enough, Ryoma was the first character I picked to do the Talent Development Plan Mode with and that fact helped me realize the calm and wise aura he presents and how it compels me to talk with him whenever I get the chance.

Part 2 of 2

With his personality out of the way, I am going to discuss my thoughts on Ryoma's role in the story and his free time events.

I suppose I can start with the main story first since Ryoma doesn't last that long in it. In Chapter 1, Ryoma fades pretty quickly into the background for the duration of the daily life. In the class trial, I was surprised to see how intelligent and helpful he was with throwing up possible theories in regards to the murder plan. Even more was that he provided a really solid argument on how Shuichi could have deceived Kaede by turning off the receiver. What makes his idea even more noteworthy is that Kaede had to lie in order to disprove Ryoma's argument. Because Ryoma only had one class trial to participate in, I was amazed with how well he contributed to the debate.

Ryoma starts to get more focus in Chapter 2 when he states that he has no will to live and that he doesn't plan on making it to the end. This begins Ryoma's arc where he tries to find a reason to live through the secret videos motive. Ryoma is one of the only characters who believes that everyone should share their motive videos, which mostly everyone else finds to be dangerous. Ryoma, being the reckless person he is, is willing to let everyone receive their own motives and possibly result in a murder occurring at the cost of him finding someone who cares about him. It's a pretty sad arc to say the least, but it only gets worse from there. Ryoma only gets more and more rash with his actions throughout the chapter when he meets up with Maki to try and get her to exchange her motive video of him. I say that he gets rash because it's clear that Ryoma had to do some snooping around to know that his motive video belonged to Maki. This means that he probably went through the effort to try and ask Kokichi or Monodam for any possible information that would help him find his motive. There is no line in the game that states that Ryoma had to ask them, but it's certainly the most plausible idea as to how he found out his video belonged to Maki and further highlights his increased desperation in overcoming his depression.

Anyways, Ryoma finally gets his motive video and is now able to find a reason to live and survive with the rest of the students. He can survive knowing that there is still someone out there who cares about him. Unfortunately, that's not the case. What Ryoma finds in his video isn't something that's uplifting or motivating, but instead insulting and depressing. Ryoma finds out that there is truly no one left in the world who cares about him anymore. Ryoma's pursuit in finding a reason to live did the exact opposite, it led him into becoming suicidal. Shortly after his discovery, Kirumi asks for Ryoma to meet with him, with Ryoma well aware that she was planning to kill him. However, Ryoma doesn't care anymore and simply gives up his life to Kirumi. I appreciate how tragic Ryoma's character ended up being and you can't help, but feel sad about his send off. I actually appreciate the fact that the series gave a character a "negative" arc. When you look at the characters who received character development, it always made them for the better. I feel that the best example I could use here is Chihiro since he's also a Chapter 2 victim. Chihiro and Ryoma both have their own little arcs in Chapter 2 with the end goal being really similar. Chihiro wants to find strength in himself while Ryoma wants to find a reason to live. From that point on these two arcs go in completely different directions. Because Monokuma's next motive pinpoints a weakness in both of them. However, the motive in DR1 didn't help Chihiro become, but become strong instead. He was finally able to build up the courage and reveal his darkest secret to Mondo, a display of true strength. Ryoma is a different case however. Instead of building up courage from his motive like Chihiro did, he does the exact opposite. He succumbs to his depression and lost any reason to keep going on. I appreciate Ryoma's arc because I feel that they did a good job handling his depression in a serious light and portraying it as something extremely difficult to overcome. That being said, I still think that Ryoma would have been a great survivor and there was a lot of room to work with in that department. Because he is so depressed, it would be ironic to see him outlive other classmates who have more reason to live than him. This would let Ryoma develop survivor's guilt, but because those who died had more going for them, Ryoma would find a way to confront his guilt and vow to survive in order for the others to not die in vain. In other words, Ryoma finds a reason to live.

I also have a problem with Ryoma being forgotten by the rest of the cast after this chapter. A big issue I have with this game is the lack of connection and unity among the cast and how some characters are never brought up again after their death. I feel that Ryoma and Mahiru share the same problem where they die early, but lack an impact on the story and survivors. Because of this, it's easy to forget about their existence because they had such a short presence in the game. It especially hurts in Ryoma's case because he never bothered to build any relationships with the rest of the characters.

So looking back on his character based on the main story, I feel that he was a solid character. His personality and VA was enjoyable, he was shown to be useful and active in the class trials, and he had a well handled arc. What made him jump my rankings though had to be his excellent free time events.

Ryoma's free time events are really touching and at the same time heartbreaking. It was revealed that he lost his entire family and lover all because of a single mistake he made because he was acting too careless. This fact makes it really sad when you look back on chapter 2 when he was trying to find a reason to live and the reveal of his motive video. It's not just that there is no one who cares about Ryoma anymore, it's that those who cared about most about Ryoma ended up being killed thanks to his actions. The highlight of his free time events has to be his final one, which is probably the best individual free time event in the whole series. Seeing Ryoma playing tennis with Shuichi and laughing and having a great time is extremely heartwarming and satisfying and I recommend anyone who hasn't done Ryoma's free time events to do them because it really makes you care a lot more about his character.

It's a shame that Ryoma died so early and is seen as forgettable in the eyes of the West and Japan because there is a lot of great content with his character and I feel that the writers did a good job at handling his character and presenting his mental illness as something serious instead of treating it like a joke like with Mikan.

i think the dichotomy between ryoma's feelings of inadequacy and the cool, even confident personality that belies them is essential to his likeability. like i said-ish below, a character who's so depressed and hopeless that they're willing to kill themselves twice over could quickly become overbearing. it's to the writers' credit that he doesn't come over as a sad sack; it would be very easy to dislike a character who was relentlessly negative. the fact that ryoma is so understated and likeable outside of his sadness really puts into relief how much of it comes down to his own personal demons. it makes us want to help him, even if he can't help himself.

Yes, there are also several scenes in the game even when Ryoma have some change of mood, specially in some of his TDP events and honestly I find it to be pretty close to a real case of depression - where your mood is usually unstable and hope and lack of faith are common. Everything about his writing, from his backstory to his depth is very clear and concise to understand at the same time that have some little subtle touches and the work put into the emotional building of his character by treating his struggles as serious and make us see how he's genuinely a good person by how he is so aware and accept his own flaws at the same time that he makes an effort mostly for the sake of being able to fight alongside everyone truly is great and as a result you have a character which is easy to sympathize for by how convincing his struggles and resolution are. There's also something I really like which is how his character isn't victimized in any moment, even after his death and even ryoma is harsh with himself.

I don't know if I should consider this tragic or not, but I think that aside from Fuyuhiko, Ryoma is the one character I can identify with myself the most...

Call it attention-whoring or whatever you'd like, but I myself frequently suffer from depression and more than once did the idea of "ending it" cross my mind... but despite this, I'm fairly optimistic as well because I know there's still so many things to care about and look forward to. It always happens to me that activities I used to find enjoyable stopped being fun, all because my depression ruined the initial "looking forward" for them, but I'm still a fun guy to talk to and would never want to ruin things for everyone else around me...

Ok, I gotta stop there, I'm getting unbearable by the minute. Just had to get that off my chest for a second...

oh, i don't think you're being dramatic at all -- it's good to talk about mental health issues openly. i can definitely relate to what you're saying, and i'm sure the weeaboo shut-ins who populate /r/danganronpa probably can as well (holster your downvotes, i kid because i love-ish). good on you for being strong enough to say(/type) it out loud.

actually, one of the major reasons i'm so into junko as an antagonist is because i'm a writer and an artist, so i'm a pretty emotional soul, and that's a bad combo with things like depression because you can really get into the habit of romanticizing your own sadness. that can produce good art from time to time, but it's very obviously a terrible idea to fall in love with your own demons. but it happens anyway. i don't think i've ever really seen misery portrayed as seductive before, but that's junko's whole thing, and it really struck a chord with me. it's funny what resonates with us based on the perspectives we bring as players.

but yeah, i definitely think ryoma scans as a very realistic depiction of mental illness -- the sort of depression that consumes the outlooks of otherwise functional, charming, likeable people.

I love that my two favorite guys in the game also have the best sounding voices as well.

Him and Shinguji?

I'm mostly cool with Shinguji, who also has a great voice, but for me it's him and Rantaro.

It's actually pretty funny how the game has been out for almost half a year and we still don't have any confirmation on his VA.

I mean I'm like 95% sure that Rantaro's VA is Johnny Yong Bosch. I don't know why he wouldn't announce that though

Same goes for Angie, I think everyone is sure that it's Celeste's VA, but she hasn't even confirmed it either.

Great analysis. Your text remembers me a friend's thoughts regarding his character and writing in a characterization level https://starcuties.tumblr.com/post/172044077394/some-thoughts-on-ryomas-character

I won't dwell too much on Ryoma's character, but I wanted to go over real quick the idea I see of people saying that he should've been a survivor vs. him dying an early victim, because it's an interesting thing to think about.

I think everyone can agree that Ryoma is absolutely someone who was ripe for character development. A brooding young man, burned by emotional scars and feelings of guilt and worthlessness accompanying him, coming to slowly embrace the value of his own life over the course of the game. It has a lot of potential for a truly moving character arc!

But I think Ryoma's arc (or lack thereof) shows the sad truth of the matter - sometimes merely trying isn't enough. Ryoma, while not quite showing an outright desire to die, does carry a very nonchalant attitude to the possibility that he might be killed, even offering to use his death to help the others if it means they can escape. When he's so frequently called out on it and he is forced to reconsider his views a couple of times, he does make an active attempt to start living again, and he uses the motive video to help cement that newfound determination.

Only problem is, you can try all you want, but if reality refuses to meet you halfway and instead decides to beat you over the head with an aluminum bat, it's...extremely disheartening, to say the least. That blow to his genuine desire for self-improvement is so crushing that I really think he would've been better off being depressed rather than getting his hopes up only to suddenly nosedive into actively wanting death.

And I do think his failure to find that inner strength is ultimately what his death was meant to portray, that not everyone can conquer their weaknesses and grow past them like Himiko and Shuichi do for example. Some people are just so past a certain point that all it needs is one simple push to drive them over the edge. The guy does his damnedest, doing everything he can to find a reason to live with the others, and it's mercilessly beaten down.

I guess you could say he had a WAYS TO G-shot

That's why I think a "failed" character arc like Ryoma has isn't indicative of any bad writing or anything, because I really do believe that him surviving would not at all have the same kind of emotional impact to me as his motive video does, and his budding determination completely shattered and reduced to dust. Him starting to treat his life as something with actual worth does sound great and I wouldn't really have any problems with it if that was what happened, plus the person with the least desire to live actually ending up a survivor would make for some great irony, but his failure to do that just resonates so much more with me, i dunno. Made me well up ;w;

And tbh, Chapter 2 was a somewhat unremarkable chapter to me anyways, it really needed one extremely powerful moment to salvage it from mediocrity, and that was the moment for me.

i agree that ryoma's story is both more powerful and subtle the way it is than if he went deep into the game and enjoyed a more conventional danganronpa character development path. i'm sad to say that, because i enjoy ryoma as a presence and could easily have spent more time with the character, but i feel like we're all constantly bitching about predictability and paths not taken when it comes to v3. ryoma is one of the only characters in the game who departs significantly from formula (along with kaede and... maybe just kaede) and i appreciate him for that.

I think it'd have been better if you still had to kill him off that he went out in case 4 instead. A lot of case 2 felt really rushed, and I think it'd explore a little more of his attempts to try. I also felt there was a huge wasted opportunity in using Ryoma's depression to have Kaito start to hint at his own illness a little better than they actually did.

i think there's an elegant and rare simplicity to danganronpa characters who take up exactly the amount of space they need in the narrative. that, and i can't think of anyone else i'd lose in his place (well, gonta, but i don't imagine that's a popular opinion).

I always felt cases 2 and 4 should have been switched, save for killing off Miu so soon. The other part of it to me is that Character dynamics >>>> Character arcs, and I felt Ryoma and Kirumi brought a lot more to the table than Gonta did.

I'll be curious as to what you have to say about Gonta, and in particular, I wonder where people generally fall with him when paired with their opinion of Mikan. I know before you've shared your views of her, and I've seen a few people before have very different views of the two despite how many similarities they have. It's always interesting when two similar characters have very different fanbase reactions.

sorry for eventual bad english, spoiler for both 2-3 and V3-4

i'm happy you and JesusMonroe have you brought up the similarities between Gonta and Mikan, and it's probably intentional, both have science-related talents and both strangled their (energetic) victim and both died burned alive (i mean she came out of the stratosphere at high speed so...)

their characters and their arcs are almost the same (nice guy/girl with problematic past commits because they wanted help a friend, said friend infect them, betray them), and i like them both, i prefer Mikan... but i prefer V3-4 more than 2-3

My nickname for Gonta is "light Mikan" because he is just like her but without all the abuse and bulling -and maybe rape- , and instead he has a big lack of proper social abilities (also Mikan lack of proper social abilities but her lack isn't big as Gonta's), and i don't think one idea is better than another

but the reason i like Mikan more is, IMO, it's clear she needs help, i just replayed the prologue and one of her first lines is about her happiness about making friends and but then she ask to forgiven because she called Hajime and Nagito her friends, i think this is a great way to introduce Mikan and her fragility, her "departure point" for her character, relationships ecc

for Gonta, his "problems", his worrying ability to trust everyone, as his need of being a useful person, and the fact he is able to commit crimes as long he feels useful, his flaws is more potrayed as positive qualities, to reinforce the "pure Gonta can do no wrong" idea, but then in Chap.4 show even Gonta has flaws in a way both fandom and in-game characters think Gonta is OOC,

also Mikan was OOC in 2-3 but at least she really har another personality, while Gonta was always like that, and i don't like when starts to understand better a character just in their last chapter

the only ecception is in Chap.2 where he throws Keebo in the phranna tank without mercy, ignoring Keebo's protests, because Kokichi said him so

as for the chapters, i like V3-4 more than 2-3 and how the killers were used, you said DR has the bad habit to kill off the characters when they starts to getting good, 2-3 does the opposite IMO, Ibuki and Mikan changes personalities and then they die, Hiyoko dies to but her death is too rushed to have any meaning, having a nice person as killer could have been a good twist but Mikan was just infected by the Despair Disease

I know you don't like V3-4 but i liked how it showed how all the characters involved were all more selfish and egocentric than they seemed, and without any personality-changing bullshit, Gonta really wanted to commict the crime, but i have my complaints too gough,wtfkaito,wouldyoudieforgonta?gough

i actually don't think i'll have that much to say about gonta! i find him a very straight ahead character, for better or worse. don't expect an essay from me. but yeah, not a huge fan.

it's funny you mention mikan because i thought a bit about her in relation to ryoma re: their both being so prominently governed by their self-hatred but in different directions -- ryoma being nihilistic but otherwise grounded and self-possessed (if aloof), versus mikan who is desperately needy and fairly overbearing in her attempts to court the validation of others. and then there's obviously nagito, whose intense self-deprecation comingles with toxic arrogance, or toko, who's self-loathing but also deeply misanthropic.

idk where i'm going except that danganronpa offers up a real buffet of emotional masochists i guess.

Ryoma's just a pretty interesting character in general, I think. Like I don't particularly have any complaints about how he was handled in Ch2. (Although I'm apparently in the minority when I say that I don't really have massive complaints about Ch2 in general.) Looking back, I realize that Tojo was probably lying about Ryoma going willingly to his death, but in the moment, that was the one scene in the entire game that made me tear up.

Though I also definitely agree with the people who say that he would be totally fascinating as a survivor. In the context of seeing where his character arc takes him, definitely. But also in terms of the reveal and the fact that he'd be standing there as this guy who would probably be the angriest at the writing team for the backstory he was given, and also as this guy who spent the entire game believing that there was nothing out there for him - only to suddenly be told that his crimes never happened, and that he (maybe?) has a shot at turning over a new leaf.

Of course, it's hard to say for whether things would definitely play out in an interesting way, and the arc already has has this fantastic poignancy. But as is, I think it has potential.

Ryoma Hoshi is tied with Himiko Yumeno for being my absolute DRV3 favorite character. Who knows? Maybe I got Tenko's syndrome for "Love of small and cute things." Yes, Ryoma has one of the most cute and adorable yet badass designs in the franchise. But let's not jump ahead. I'll cover that point later. First, let's talk about what makes Ryoma a wonderful, almost flawless character, best boy of V3, one of the best boys of the franchise and, in my opinion, one of the best characters in Danganronpa.

I remember that day back at september/october 2016 when the trailer revealing the character's designs was made public, and oh boy, the hype was real. Everyone was talking about the girl with the ahoge and the musical hairclips, or the "cyborg" that obviously didn't resembled Makoto, or other more "important looking" characters. Blah blah. Well, not me. Apart from the petite redhead witch, my attention was mostly focused on the small, new goofy-looking character with the big eyes and the double pointed hat. "Huh, so this is the new joke character a la Hifumi, Teruteru or Bandai, eh?" was what most people thought about him before moving on. I mean, having a perverted/obnoxious/irrelevant cartoony character was a recurring thing on Danganronpa. However, for some reason, I expected Kodaka to turn the tables aroud and come up with a subversion. I don't know, maybe making the weird-looking dude important this time? Or at least don't make him a sexual offender, please? Those were mostly the reasons I couldn't stop thinking about Ryoma when I thought about the new characters, and he ended up sticking with me. And I'm really thankful for that, because every time a new thing about Ryoma was revealed, I got more and more surprised and pleased.

For starters, the fact that he was a tennis player was just hilarious. Yes, this small cute boy was a tennis player. Alright, however, this doesn't says much about his personality. He might be a creep tennis player, who knows? "Hey, you want to see my tennis balls?" Well, fear not! Because Ryoma isn't your average pervert. No, just go ahead and read his biography. This little dude single-handedly killed an entire mafia organization with steel tennis balls. Oh man, the moment I read this, Ryoma became a badass by my book. Watching this guy in the killing game was going to be an awesome thing...

...oh, what's this? A trailer revealing the voices of the cast? Well, time to hear Ryoma's goofy, kid-alike voic— WHAT THE HOLY HELL HIS VOICE IS THE MANLIEST THING EVER!!! And he's japanese Solid Snake! Oh God, Ryoma is everything I hoped for. He's like a Bandai but done right, and I love it.

So yes, Ryoma ended up being my favorite V3 character pre-release, with the magical Himiko coming in second. And I really wanted him to become a survivor. Can you imagine the amounts of development he could've gained, learning to care about people again, finding a reason to live and escaping with everyone else now that his tragic past was revealed to be fake? But oh well, everyone knows how that turned out. Thanks Kirumi, no one cares about your duties anyway! At least you should've given Ryoma a respectful and clean death after he willingly gave his life for your selfish actions, but no, you had to drown him and then feed him to the goddamn piranhas (also putting the blame on my second favorite character). But enough Kirumi bashing, I'll keep that for her discussion topic. Let's keep talking about my cute small tennis player now that I've covered everything about him pre-release and his fate.

Well, as I said, Ryoma IS JUST TOO CUTE. He's basically a little moving, talking plushie (with the manliest voice ever of course). Yes, I know he's not """HANDSOME""" like other male members of the cast, but who cares? What makes DR characters deep is their personalities and backstories, not their appearances. Honestly, if Ryoma had Teruteru's or Hifumi's body, or even one of his old beat designs (looking at you, giant walking thumb), he would still be a top-tier character because of how awesome he is. So yes, his cute design is just a plus, because it just makes him look more BADASS than he already is. How is his design badass? Well, what's more awesome than a little cute boy taking revenge on yakuzas and killing them all by himself? Answer: nothing. I also love the fact that he doesn't have a lot of sprites, and most of them are with the same expression. So yeah, no incredibly happy Ryoma, or scared Ryoma, or CRYING Ryoma. He doesn't needs to show a lot of emotion to be one of the most emotional characters in the game.

Now onto his backstory (and I'm going to talk about it assuming it's real). Yeah yeah, I know I've mentioned Ryoma's actions a lot of times on this post, but can you blame me? Ryoma has one of the best backstories in the game. In a world where a chick hates men just because her master joked with her, or a guy is a serial killer for delusional and disgusting reasons, Ryoma ended up having a truly tear-jerking story onto his tragic past. He had a rope tied around his neck, he couldn't let his passion for tennis go to waste, he had honor, so of course he wouldn't let a peepy mafia organization make him throw a match for shit and giggles. Yes, this was a terrible mistake, but I don't blame Ryoma. He had no idea how far these people would go for revenge. And he did his best to protect the ones he cared about, to no avail. Would Ryoma let these fuckers get away with it, knowing how they took everything, his family, his lover, away from him? Of course not, Ryoma annihilated them all, and that put him on death row, where he lost his will to live and considered himself a murderer, not a hero or someone who made the right decision (and of course he didn't, but I don't blame him). See? This is the kind of backstory that makes you grow attached to a character, to care about them, to root for them. I wanted to see Ryoma find a new reason to live. Find friends. Heck, maybe even a new lover? If I remember correctly, Himiko said she found Ryoma attractive (who doesn't). Don't kill me Tenko, but everyone knows Himiko likes men. You're just a friend to her. LEMME SHIP MY TWO FAVORITE CHARACTERS.

Oh, and his Free Time Events are some of the sweetest in the franchise. I just freaking love the fact that he tries to keep a "hard rock-boiled edgelord" façade but it's so difficult for him to maintain because, deep down, Ryoma is just a kind-hearted boy tormented by his past who just wants to be friends with everyone and play tennis again without any worries, even though he denies having interest on it anymore. It's sweet, it's cute, it's badass, and it's tragic. It also says a lot when his "most deep down fantasy" in the Love Hotel isn't some kinky or perverted shit, but the wish of having someone to care about him and never letting him go. Ryoma has a tragic and morbid story yet he's one of the most pure cast members. He even volunteered to be the first goddamn victim so his classmates wouldn't die at the hands of Monokuma. I love that contrast, I love the two sides of Ryoma, and I love his character. He's just that perfect...

...well, not really. As much as I adore Ryoma, I must accept that he isn't completely flawless. For starters, as I said before, taking revenge on the mafia wasn't a smart idea. Killing isn't justifiable in any way, no matter how much revenge you want to take. In a sense, Ryoma did bring towards him a lot of bad things, and that's sad, because he truly regrets it and wants to make up for it. Also, his attitude sometimes was very... jarring. And depressing. As if the game itself aknowledged that Ryoma shouldn't have a happy and meaningful life. That made me angry. Come on dude, what if your motive video is empty? You can always find motivation if you look hard enough. What about your other classmates? They could be your friends, someone to fight for and along them. Didn't you realised that had Kirumi managed to escape, everyone else would've died? Geez, that's the thing I dislike about Ryoma. He doesn't thinks far enough and it's prone to give up easily. He was looking for a reason to live, find his video empty, and instantly loses it? Bullshit. Ryoma, don't do that please. Or you'll end as fish food. You can do better than that.

But anyway, his negative traits are nothing compared to the positive ones, and that's why I can't bring myself to blame Ryoma for anything. He has his excuses, and I forgive him.

On my final toughts, Ryoma is such a waste of potential. He could've had a lot of roles on each chapter. What about joining Angie's cult because she promises him hope and relief? Or being agaisnt it because he doesn't believes in second chances? His serious but amused reaction to his Neo World Program avatar? Heck, maybe even shedding a tear during Gonta's trial, showing that, deep down, Ryoma has feelings and is shaked by the killing game as much as everyone else. Him discovering that the entire planet is extinct? Sure, tragic, but that also means that he doesn't needs to return to prison, and he could give a peptalk to everyone about not being depressed, as he knows exactly how everyone else feels. And of course, the reveal that everything, including his horrible past, is fake? A new hope for my little Ryoma, a light at the end of the tunnel. Some amazing development please! Kodaka, make an alternate universe where this happens. I want my small tennis boy to get a happy ending, not a bleak, bullshit one.

Well, that's quite a rant. I expected to write more but I guess this is a far as I got. Seems like I still got ways to go, huh? Whatever, because I believe I just expressed everything I feel about Ryoma and why I do think he's an amazingly well done character. Great design, great voice, great backstory, great personality, great FTEs, great (but small, sighs) role. Great everything. This guy is all I hoped for and I thank Kodaka for creating him. I didn't even talked a lot about his talent because, honestly, I don't care that much about tennis, but Ryoma doesn't even needs his talent to win my heart (unlike Himiko, as one of the main reasons I love her is because I'm a slut for witch and magician SORRY MAGE characters). Ryoma is amazing. Easily on my Top 7 characters of Danganronpa. And that, ladies and gentleman, is what I had to say. Thank you.

AND OF COURSE I LOVE CATS TOO RYOMA, THAT'S ANOTHER POINT ON YOU.

Farewell.

"This world can be too big and too bright for eyes that have spent too long staring down..."

Ryoma is my favorite character in V3 and quite possibly all of it. Despite his time in game being so limited, I found him at the forefront of my mind the entire play through. Initially drawn in because his design is so good, I found myself in awe of his story and his personality. He reminded me a lot of my younger self, from his proficiency at tennis, his struggles with loss, and his love for cats.

As a character, he fits in very well in comparison to the ultimates seen within V3 and the franchise in general. His rejection of the social games his peers play speaks volumes about his maturity, but despite his appearance of being distant and dangerous, he's truly quite caring and is willing to die if it means his classmates can continue on.

His background is an extreme version of something most athletes can relate to. He's a tennis star whose worked tremendously hard to become the best at what he does, and by the time he reaches the peak, he doesn't have any passion left. He's reached the endgame and he's sick of playing it. Somehow he finds himself in a trap, and because of boredom with the sport and life, he doesn't follow the script that was written for him. Tragically, he never anticipated that the mafia would retaliate by killing everyone he loved. This ultimate loss would lead him to find a new passion: vengeance. Driven by his passions, he slaughters as many mafia men as he can before he's caught and becomes the ultimate prisoner. Ryoma, a boy who achieved greatness, found his life swiftly ended in a whirlwind of emotion. Now on death row, he bides his time by waiting until he is to be killed. What's the point in caring about anything anymore? That didn't go over so well last time, and it won't be long until he's killed. He has no future.

In chapter 1, he keeps on a brave face while most students struggle to contemplate their new environment. When Rantaro drops his famous "I'm gonna end this game" line, Ryoma tells him that he doesn't need to. Someone can kill him as sacrifice to go get help. The onlookers in the cafeteria think his idea is stupid, still believing that they can escape with clean hands, and refuse to see the heroism in sacrificing yourself- especially for people you barely know. In believing he has no future, he figures he might as well help as many people as he can by sacrificing himself.

In his free time with Kaede, we get to see the nuance of his personality. In free time segments that receive quite a lot of Ryoma's memeage, he talks about Cats and his edginess. I am personally a cat lover, so seeing him be quite upset over his cat is very relatable. I find Ryoma's cat symbolism to be quite present: from his design of being a small creature with notable ear-like protrusions and a legendary speed, to his qualities of being seemingly distant but actually caring, to ultimately his death of being drowned in a sink. His second free time shows how he even though he appears quite prickly, he is quite the introspective thinker. He tells Kaede her pianism is quite fitting, because her harmoniousness is just like the melody of a piano. He's able to call things when he sees them.

In the first trial, he is quite helpful and frequently connects the logic of his classmates. His presence in future trials would likely have been helpful.

With Shuichi, we get more of Ryoma's character and break his shell. Shuichi's line of questioning leads to more information behind Ryoma's backstory with the mafia and his "disdain" for tennis, but truly he still finds a small part of him that can enjoy his favorite sport. Amidst the fun references to Prince of Tennis, Ryoma shares the tale of how he became the ultimate prisoner. His willingness to share with saihara shows to me that he desires to drop his guard and enjoy life, but due to his vengeance, he can never go back. He believes himself to be unlovable. This is only further "proven" to him with the motive video. Despite Shuichi's potential actions during chapter 2, nobody cares about Ryoma. This is finally what breaks him, and as anybody whose ever been truly alone knows, it's not a dread to scoff at. As Ryoma's heartwarming 5th free time event unfolds, we see him genuinely happy in his time with Shuichi, smiling because he can finally drop his guard and "get stupid" in a good old match of tennis. He tells Shuichi that if he gets out of here, he'll do what he can with what he has left and try to pick up his life the best he can- even though when examining the details, these platitudes seem incredibly optimistic. He tells Shuichi he's glad he opened up to him, that the detective investigated his coffee stain. While this is heartwarming and a great set of free times, it does leave you wondering why chapter 2 proceeded as planned, but that's a common theme in the series.

But unfortunately for Ryoma none of this happens because, in stark contrast with his final free time event, Ryoma meets with Kirumi and, after learning what she had at stake, offered himself up to save her and the continent of Japan. Depending on your thoughts about Kirumi and what you might do in a killing game, you can view her actions a multitude of ways. As a Ryoma Stan, though, I can't view her actions as much more than taking advantage of the openly depressed guy. The circumstances regarding his death are ridiculously cruel- from the incredibly sad Closing Argument panel showing him screaming under the weight of the water as he clawed at the sink, to his corpse becoming food for Himiko's piranhas.

As for the talent development plan, he's got some really sweet scenes. From spending time with Hajime talking about bonds, to speaking with Fuyuhiko about their mutual respect, he shows himself as a respectful and thoughtful character as he helps other Hopes Peak students get closer to cats. I wish this AU was the real one. He's also busted in the dungeon game, so there's that.

All in all, I see Ryoma as an incredibly deep character that's easy to overlook if you heed his warnings. For a "joke character", he is pretty cool and I wish he had made it through. It saddens me that if Ryoma receives any appreciation at all its usually a "ways to go" meme, and to be honest if those people who have "a ways to go". Nothing but love for my Prince of Tennis.

I got nothing new to add about Ryoma. Literally everyone, including myself, loves the guy. He's the character that practically everyone have a positive opinion for and it's actually pretty amazing.

And much unlike Kokichi and Miu, I don't have to deal with some obnoxious hype from people forcing me to regard him as the best character or anything like that, so his fans are pretty damn good too.

Congratulations for being part of a balanced community diet, Hoshi-kun ;)

Good character, great FTEs. I think he should've lived solely because his personality would change up the cast dynamic enough in later chapters. I particularly like the idea that he gets accused of murder at one point and is forced to fight for his own life for everyone's sake

I do like the ending of his arc in V3 and it's incredibly sad, maybe even the saddest moment in the game. But he really does feel ancillary in the end and sadly I knew he'd die early because his design doesn't have longevity. So I do wish he wasn't just "extra" and was given a chance to do more. I don't think he necessarily should've been a survivor, even a killer would be pretty interesting

In a game where a lot of characters seem to be almost copy-pasted from previous games, Ryoma was a breath of fresh air. The tennis talent seems kinda bland at first, but the way he uses it in the past is so insane and over-the-top that it ends up fitting perfectly in a series like Danganronpa. Now all I need is a fighting game with Ryoma and Fuyuhiko and I can die happy.

There's also his personality and outlook on life. Suicidal tendencies isn't covered all that often in DR, so I wondered how that arc would play out. One would expect the obvious 'Oh he wants to die at first, but he'll eventually grow to love his classmates and want to live, and maybe even sacrifices himself for them at the very end, satisfied that he found a reason to live.' But nope, dead in Chapter 2. It was sad to see my favourite character at that point go, but if the alternative is as generic a plotline as I've just laid out, then it was probably for the best that he die that early.

His design makes him stand out, too. Even in a game full of outlandish character designs, Ryoma will make you do a double take, and besides the obvious 'He looks like an adorable badass' I think part of it is in the smaller details. Like if you pay attention, you'll notice he has a chain around his ankle, and you'll wonder why a tennis pro would have that, and you'll be curious enough to talk to him. I appreciate little touches that show off a character's personality before they even say a word.

That's all I have ta say. Never really made a post like this before, but it was fun to think up the reasons I like a character so much. My best boy and best girl are coming up so maybe I'll do the same for them too. But I'll need to work on my analysis prowess before then, for I still have a ways to go.

I think we can all probably agree that he's the best of the "toon" characters.

Ryoma was the character I went into the game already liking (as soon as I found out his Japanese VA was Solid Snake, meaning his personality was probably going to be interesting). I was happy he didn't let me down as he still ended up being a great character. I was praying he was going to surprise me and make it to the finish line, in hopes that unlike another old favourite in Kiyotaka he would eventually beat his depression. Then that Shark Tank opened (When I was already freaking out over another early favourite of Himiko falling into a trap) and it got the biggest "NOOO" reaction out of me.

All I know is that I hated Tojo for the longest time after Chapter 2. His death was incredibly cruel and she was incredibly manipulative in a moment where any sane person would be supportive. I've softened on her a little as I put most of the blame on what happened on Tsumugi instead. Tojo ended up being one of the final supports I did in the game because I was still reeling a little from it, while Ryoma was one of the first.

Also a quick shout out to Ryoma's quite tasteful Love Motel sequence. His is one of two which doesn't seem romance based, and so you get a nice little moment where Shuichi just gives Ryoma a quiet hug. It seems like in a way that's all he needs.

I would like to believe in a rhetorical New Game + mode where you play as Kaede throughout the whole game that she would have been able to "save him" due to her personality being a bit more suited for pulling people up off the floor than Shuichi is/was at first (not that he didn't try his best). We already saw in Chapter 1 that Kaede was able to get Ryoma to take a step back from sacrificing himself where other people trying to talk sense into him failed, so I feel she would never have given up on him.

Honestly, I'm disappointed about what they did to him, even though he is a good character. I will be honest here, chapter 2 doesn't feel that important like the other chapters, almost like a filler chapter. Not only doesn't add anything to the story but also don't do justice to the characters either, with just making the victim a victim and a killer a killer, without explore more their personalities or possible develop them. Both Kirumi and Ryouma felt like they have been just made for those roles mainly, without anything else to work on them and didn't do much for the whole game either, which frustrates me. Ryouma is a good character but I feel like more could've done with him since he didn't had too much screentime like some others characters, which is frustrating because I like how he was the type of guy who understand about stuff regarding life more than the others and advices them (like how he did with Shuichi in chapter 1 about investigations). His story is sad and all but I feel like how he doesn't appears so much, it didn't affected me as much as I wanted. I think the writting committed a big mistake in killing Ryouma in this chapter, because there are some events which kinda make him stay on the shadows and not give a chance to shine properly (Like Shuichi's growing which consumed a big part of chapter 2, principally when he and Kaito decided to train) and because this, he doesn't come out as amazing as he should've been.

Part 1
I'm finally gonna praise a V3 character. Now, like pretty much every V3 character, I don't think Ryoma was used well in the story, but he himself is great, and by far one of my favorite V3 characters.

I normally don't bring up voice acting or anything, but…you can't really ignore that he gets to share an English VA with Gundham Tanaka, another favorite of mine. Both of them also have the advantage of having a lot of edgy traits, but it ends up being endearing for how it's used. With Gundham, he's essentially a hammy Yugioh villain which I absolutely loved, and with Ryoma, it's more just used as a mask that everyone pokes at. Kaede reaches out to him and picks at him a bit, but it's never meanspirited and the two have a good heart to heart. Maki is edgy too, but the game amps up the "isn't she just the coolest" up to eleven and it gets a bit overwhelming, even with her tsundere moments. When I think about some of my favorite edgy characters, one consistency is that the media they're in isn't afraid to make them look silly or have fun with the edginess rather than taking it 100% seriously and trying to force in as much coolness as possible. Ryoma Hoshi, Simon Blackquill, Tiger of the Wind, and several others all have that edginess to them, but it works when it's not the majority of their character. When you aren't afraid to make an edgy character look dumb or silly sometimes and have fun with them, they become much more compelling.

Ryoma is one of those characters I really like since he does bring some really nice dynamics to the cast, but I just don't really like how he was tossed aside as an early game victim. I don't mind my favorites dying, but only if they're sent off in a satisfying way, and I really feel like they could have gotten a lot more mileage out of Ryoma in favor of a few other characters that lasted longer. He'd make a great survivor, for example, and having a depressed/suicidal character start to develop survivor's guilt and then work out of it by the end of the game would have been a pretty simple but compelling story. We've had a character that doesn't value their own lives in the killing game before in Nagito, but here it's given a much more heroic angle, and Ryoma isn't out to try and kill everyone by the end.

I think his whole setup and backstory is a little too vague and ridiculous, but it's par the course for Danganronpa to have them set up a pretty quick and detail free backstory to justify a backstory for a character (ex. Nagito, Kyoko, Shuichi, etc) and I feel like they can be woven in a little better. Ryoma has the same kind of dynamic where he what he says can't always be taken at face value. He leads off with a very strong first impression when the game make it look like he's considering murdering someone only to have him casually offer his life to save everyone. Kaede has trouble objecting since the clock is ticking, but she doesn't know if she should reveal her plan despite the risk in leaking it, and it helps establish more traits that let us learn more about both Kaede and Ryoma.

But much how Gundham is essentially a socially awkward guy who uses his persona to push people away, a lot of what Ryoma says can't be taken directly as it's his depression talking, and even he knows it. He says things like that and casually mentions that his life is worthless on numerous occasions. A lot of his FTEs with are basically him doing that and Kaede/Shuichi calling him out on it. He later reveals in the second chapter that he's jealous of the others for having motivation to survive, and it helps give a second layer to his character when he admits that despite the way he talks, he does want things to be different and wants to value his life just like everyone else. It's a surprisingly well-handled depiction.

I don't see it discussed as much, but Ryoma also has a big trait in common with Mikan—he's really good at reading body language. Mikan could quickly eye Hajime and tell how he was feeling and even provides him advice on how to deal with it in one of her FTEs, and Ryoma does a very similar thing with Kaede and Shuichi when he's able to read both of them and tell that they're hiding information. I really like the details that it doesn't just come out of nowhere, as they point to specific things about the characters changes in facial expression or body language to have Ryoma make a guess, like saying that Kaede looks pretty tired and he calls her bluff when she tries to cover it up so he won't worry about her. He's also generally the one commenting most on Shuichi's change in body language and expression after Kaede's death. In a game priding itself on a theme of truth and lies, I really felt this was a little underplayed and thought it's another reason to keep Ryoma around longer.

I also really like Ryoma's presence in the one class trial he got to be in. I feel a lot of characters fall into a really contrived category, and I think the fanbase has a really big problem with how it evaluates intelligence in this series. I really like Ryoma's presence in that he's supportive and willing to give others a chance to speak up. He sees the suspicion against Gonta, but is willing to give him a chance to explain when he says "you got this." He's pretty rational, but not out for blood. He pushes against Tsumugi because there's the chance of her being involved, and he also objects against Kaede as well. He pretty much always advances the discussion when he speaks up, and it's still unfortunate that some of my favorite characters in the class trials barely got to be in any of the cases (Ryoma, Chapter 1 Kirumi, Kaede, etc)

While I don't really care for some parts of Kaito and his attitude toward Ryoma's situation, I do like the dynamic of him knowing Ryoma and feeling both a twinge of admiration and disappointment in him. Ryoma's sendoff was one of the few moments I genuinely felt anything strong from this game, seeing that he essentially had no motive, which to most people would be an advantage in the game, but for him it's what sends him over the edge and he decides to essentially commit suicide. I do still have some massive issues with this, but I'll save those thoughts more for Kaito and Kirumi's discussions. For the sake of Ryoma's, I still do have a problem with just dumping off as a chapter 2 victim, not just because of how much more mileage I thought they could get out him, but because killing him off now also just makes him feel much too derivative of DR 1 and 2 characters, a very consistent criticism you'll see with these posts. I think they use Ryoma's catchphrase a little too much, and it doesn't help that he's a walking reference, so that catchphrase he got it from makes him feel a little lazy too, but the fact that he's a chapter 2 victim and the fact that I suspected he would be since I first saw him in the prologue was an issue. Being the cartoony character like Teruteru, Bandai, etc doesn't lend him to much longevity, but ch 2 tropes apply too.

We have a character tied to organized crime much like Mondo and Fuyuhiko. Second, like DR 1's Chihiro, Ryoma has a large insecurity he openly grapples with, while everyone else is pressured by the motive, Ryoma and Chihiro try to use it to improve themselves instead. Chihiro saw his secret was going to be exposed and decided to start working out to build his body up, and Ryoma wanted to use the motive to give him someone to care about and a reason to survive. It's even contrasted by the killer in both cases, since Mondo crumbled under his motive and was seen as more manly/muscular, and likewise, Kirumi was in the opposite situation and caved in because she had so many people she was motivated to kill for.

There are a ton of recycled chapter 2 tropes, but I'm mostly sticking to what directly relates to Ryoma (extra points for the small girl/guy role being split by Ryoma and Himiko because we didn't already do it with Hiyoko and Chihiro) for the sake of this post. There's also a big one in that he's the first opponent you have for rebuttal showdown in the first class trial…just like Mahiru. DR 1 didn't have rebuttal showdown, but even then, the first person you refute in the game when they teach you the nonstop debate mechanic is Chihiro, and guess what chapter he dies in? Taken on their own, these kinds of things don't really mean much, but if you've played the other games, I found myself really predicting most of what would happen mostly because it's happened twice already.

Part 2
Ryoma I think was one of the best characters to come out of V3, and it's unfortunate that they did next to nothing with him. Unfortunately, he feels a little too derivative of DR1/2 characters as a result, and he also had the misfortune of being involved in what I consider one of the weakest cases in the entire series. Not only that, but a running problem DR has is that It tends to put more focus on the killer, which is understandable, but it really leaves the victim in the dust. It doesn't work so well here, and especially when you pair the fact that Ryoma was never openly hostile to anyone and offered his life to save the group with the fact that he was openly depressed and suicidal, it just feels wrong that the resolution of the case has you focusing more on the killer.

I get what they're going for with Kirumi, but especially with Kaito, it feels unnatural that he'd be the one to give a speech and everything to someone who took advantage of a suicidal friend he looked up to. I feel like this case would have benefitted tremendously if they have the killing game rule where only the person who gets voted is ruled as the killer and you have to make your case to prove who to kill.

By doing it this way, Kirumi could have killed Ryoma and made it look like a suicide, which isn't unreasonable to think given Ryoma's situation. It also gives her the benefit of pushing for the suicide angle and saying "if we vote for Ryoma, then nobody dies and we don't risk killing an innocent person." The mass execution rule kind of screws us out of a good opportunity here, because having a dilemma like this gives us new insights about the characters and the circumstances of the case at least give Ryoma more focus. For example, you could have Kaito insist that Ryoma was murdered and that the class owes it to him to bring his killer to justice and he'd maybe bring up what kind of person Ryoma is and say "he was trying his best to have a reason to live!"

Then this makes Kirumi much more of a threat because her solution is the safe option and later in the case when it starts to look more and more like murder, she can pin it off on someone else in desperation and still have the "needs of the many" motive. This also creates a scenario for other characters to talk more about and sympathize more with Ryoma. Case 5 of all three games tend to do this, but they always have an element of "what is X thinking/trying to do? What kind of person are they?" It's part of what makes them generally the most popular cases in the series, and I honestly feel they should be doing it for every class trial. There's more to the mystery than just catching the killer (especially when the games are so simple and formulaic you knew the killer before even starting the chapter…) and setting up a scenario where you have to really explore Ryoma's character would be great here.

This is more for Kirumi's character discussion, but this case would likely work better as a case 4 instead, as a lot of the stuff they do feels kind of rushed. It'd open up the copied trope of the chapter 4 caring athletic character dying again and they hint at the idea of suicide, but almost anything would be an improvement. It'd help Kirumi seem like a much more competent culprit, and I seriously doubt anyone playing the games would have actually fallen for thinking Himiko was the killer, I think you can just do a setup with it looking like Ryoma committed suicide first. Nobody would think it's the solution since it's the first thing they bring up anyway, but the focus should still be character driven.

If they were going to use the mass execution rule, I feel they should have had a scenario where Ryoma was the prime suspect, like say case 3 or something. He doesn't value his own life, but he wouldn't want a bunch of innocent people dying because of him, so it'd be nice to see them explore what it's like to have character defending themselves for everyone else rather than their own survival. Hell, if you still have Korekiyo "waifu Hunter" Shinguji, you can really explore more in the fact that you have a murderer, a serial killer, and an assassin all running around together with Ryoma, Kiyo, and Maki.

"It's reasonable you'd suspect a killer like me…but, I didn't do anything. It's strange, y'know? If you want me gone, I won't judge. But…I can't let you vote me. If you do, then everyone here is as good as dead, and I can't let that happen. Most people would be scared if they were cornered like this, but me? I actually like it, because now I have a reason to stand and fight. Let me tell you now kid. If you wanna pin this crime on me, then you still have a ways to go." Rebuttal showdown

Definitely best boy for me.

God every single time I read some alternate V3 scenario I become more and more disappointed with the game we got. The Ryoma suicide angle with the new voting rule would've been awesome

I have a weird thing where I read entire essays like yours that explain why a game I enjoyed was bad in an articulate way. there's an entire 50 part writing series about how every mass effect game fell apart by Sheamus young. I usually play games and just get invested enough that the flaws become hard to see, and reading these do interest me on showing me how I can miss the pitfalls of storytelling that fall right under my nose (except the "kirumi is the prime minister" thing, that was pretty obviously dumb). Regardless, I really enjoy reading these and even though they don't get many responses, I hope you continue. Also, as admittedly shallow as it sounds, it does please me to know Ryoma is a good boy even to the most disappointed of fans. Nice reads regardless!

Ah, the Tennis Punisher.

What I will forever love about him is that he's so similar to one of my most favorite comic book anti-heroes ever, Frank Castle - one who has lost his family to the mob, prompting him to kill an entire mafia org - but Ryoma does with just one steel tennis ball.

Also resonating is that his tale is that of loss - of loved ones, of freedom, of meaning of life. What really sells me is how accurately depicted his depression is, fitting for someone who has experienced a horrible event in front of his eyes.

...too bad he gets to be the 2nd victim, just like Chihiro. Kodaka, for once, spare the non-standardly designed character - he's leagues above Hifumi and Teruteru and this regard.

I love Ryoma a lot. Probably my favorite considerably short lived character in the series. There isn't much I can say that hasn't already, but he's such an off beat design and idea and I feel everything about him just SCREAMS Danganronpa.

Part of me wishes he lived longer, but his demise is pretty particularly poetic to him, I'm not sure I'd change it. I feel in another life he'd be a really badass mentor figure though. Someone who really knows the ropes of seedy killers and how to deal with them. Come to think of it, I wish we knew more of how his relationship with Maki would be. They're both hollowed by murders they've committed despite their soft sides.

I'm glad I can finally be fully positive in one of these V3 character discussions (ironic for the depressed character) because Ryoma is a great character and a tragically flawed one. He's a character who was quite clearly depressed and fighting his inner demons and what i thought was going to happen was him getting over these and learning to find value in life again (which is true for the side modes) but instead he ends up succumbing to his demons when his motive video was revealed and ends up giving up his life for someone else. He perfectly fits in line with the chapter 2 deaths being tragic (which Kirumi breaks) and i just found him to be the most down to earth and realistic character in V3s cast (apart from maybe Kaede). He also has a really solid design with a really nice hat and jacket.

Ryoma deserved better. He deserved so, so much better; he deserved to be allowed to grow and realize the value of his own life and existence and instead he gets killed in a tragic, almost meaningless way after being showed "proof" that his life was unimportant and he mattered to no one.

His story is so stupidly tragic and he could have had a different arc.

What can I say? Like previous comments here you probably have seen: Ryoma is a rather simple character mostly for how easy to understand his character resolution is but that isn't really something bad - A good character isn't defined by their complexity but by how solid and believable they are and this is something he does very, very well, just like himiko or saihara also. I feel like Ryoma have a normal like personality and doesn't have any really crazy DR tier twists but that's great if you ask me and honestly, personality gimmicks or crazy twists wouldn't work with his character anyway and funnily enough, talking with him gives me a good and comfortable vibe even without any craziness to entertain me. While his participation in the main game alone isn't really strongly defining, just like how it was for me with characters like amami or kirumi, I absolutely loved how his ftes, salmon mode and TDP made me see Ryoma with other eyes: after doing all his content outside main story and replaying the game again, I noticed his dialogues hold a lot of foreshadowing like some of his advices and characterization to his character, his fate also made me sadder as well and I think his depression had a touch of reality in its portrait. I also realized that he has a lot of interesting characteristics/traits that make sense with his whole character (like who he used to be, who he is now, what he did, etc.) and more tridimensional (instead of just being limited to be a chill, depressed boy. He also shows some sense of justice, positivity, sense of humor an open mind, etc.) and his story and its impact stronger as possible.

I really like having a murderer that openly admits his crimes in the cast because that means that kodaka won't use it as twist and be forced to work in his character rather than working in the build up for his twist, just like how it was with him. Sadly enough, just like most early chapter involved characters, most part of Ryoma is left for his ftes and other events but it's okay if those events do a very decent job for his character. It's hard to complain in "technical terms" about him because really - Ryoma's character succeeds in what it tries to be and the game doesn't left any open holes there but I disliked his fate in game. I thought it was a bit rushed and with a character which is great at observing people and reading easily saihara's character and seeing past ouma's act, you could do a lot with him, really. Ironically, you can say though that his arc was quite unique and fits a game where DEESPAIR is one of its main themes.

Ryoma's an awesome character with an interesting personality and a truly tragic backstory. The only real down-side with Ryoma is that he contributes the least in the entire game. I'm not saying that because he needed more character development, I'm saying that because he only has one agree statement and dies. That's all he contributes to in the main story. Even Rantoro contributed more than him, and he was the first victim (Rantoro's video, being given the survivor perk to help figure out the mastermind, etc.) Ryoma's lack of contribution is my only real flaw with what is otherwise, a fantastic character.

Ryoma's a nice guy with a solid, but small, arc that ends in a poignant note. He fulfills his role in the story well and is one of the best parts of chapter 2. His FTEs are among the best in the series.

It's also important to notice that he isn't that much of a controversial character in the fanbase, maybe because he is a relatively harmless character in the series (which is ironic considering his backstory). His lack of popularity in Japan (not that he is that popular in the west either) is not only due to his weird design but because Ryoma's suicidal tendencies are not exactly well received there, it's a somewhat problematic topic considering Japan's issue with suicides.

Ryoma is the character that basically proves people don't understand the difference between someone with no motivation to live and a suicidal person.

Aside from that, a good friend of mine got him to become one of my favorite characters in the V3 cast. He deserved better.

I would argue that he got suicidal tendencies after what happened to him but at the same time that is debatable since there's no real attempt to suicide (like a suicidal person) before chapter 2 (you could count chapter 1 but that was under a very specific situation and he didn't want everyone dead, instead of being a death to end his suffering or motivated by emotional issues) and there are countless hints that Ryoma under his helpless situation always had some hope. I think that "depressed" suits better than "suicidal" since mood swings are very common in depression

I personally think that Ryoma does have a full arc, it's just not a happy one. I love how Ryoma is handled, and I love his place in the menagerie of the killing game. A character that Monokuma/Mastermind has absolutely no control over, because Monokuma's ultimate threat is death, the one thing Ryoma isn't afraid of.

He's an absolutely sad character who's death is affecting to the player, as if we personally failed him. His death also points at Kokichi's plan of revealing everyone's messages being a good one, as it would have allowed the rest of the class to know what's going on inside his head, a really nice parallel to the difficulties with depression.

I think it's safe to say everyone likes Ryoma. Honestly, I kind of brushed past him on my own trip through the game, but going back through his Free Time Events I definitely missed out on one of the strongest character arcs of the game.

His story feels like a classical tragedy, a fall from grace caused by one's own mistakes, lack of foresight, and a bit of misfortune. He had a good life and a girlfriend, then after a bit of cajoling from the mafia he decides to kick the hornet's nest by ruining their fun. They killed his family, and from there it spirals further with every effort he makes to fix things making them worse. First his girlfriend gets killed, then he ends up in jail for killing the mafiosos, and who knows what all happened that he didn't decide to share. Then he ends up in the killing game, a place where everyone else has reason to want to escape and he just knows he'll end up back in prison. I'd wager he doesn't even want to chance trying to avoid it either given how things have gone from bad to worse for him for trying to avoid consequences.

Sure, Shuichi can try to make it better through the FTEs, but there is an inherent tragedy in that as well: There are literally not enough FTEs available for Shuichi to help him without using chapter select to effectively time travel. It's impossible to give Ryoma "a reason to live" without cheating. So in this case, even a stickler for plot consistency would probably agree that it's completely reasonable for his FTEs to seem like they contradict his story arc. I didn't pay enough attention to FTE availability and didn't realize that this is inaccurate, but I leave it up to avoid confusion later.

If he was a survivor, I would bet his arc would've involved him getting friends and getting a new lease on life... Which would be somewhat unremarkable in Danganronpa. I mean, we haven't had another character exactly like him, but we've had outsiders with friendless backgrounds aplenty. Frankly, I don't think it would've been a great resolution to his arc, and it certainly would've taken away from the classical tragedy bend of it. I would've preferred him as a survivor to Maki, but as I said in her analysis I would say the same about literally any other character as well. It would potentially be interesting to see how the plot resolves him somehow being a Hope's peak student and part of the Gofer project while at the same time being in prison, but I suspect it was intentionally made to be a pseudo-plot hole to hint that the backstories aren't real.

...And I got a little sidetracked, but let's not forget that in the killing game, his tragic arc continues on: Nobody takes him up on his offer to be the victim in the first chapter, and as a result not only do both the Ultimate Survivor trying to save them all and the impromptu leader of the class end up dead, but any chance of the "First Blood Perk" plan being used to get help is gone. Then he goes out willingly and dies for what seems like the greater good... But not only is it all a lie, it all comes to nothing because Kirumi gets executed anyway, taking away someone everyone in the class was fond of. Some might be tempted to point at him and say something about hope and despair, but I find it a fitting if very sad resolution to his tale...

I suppose when you're always taking one step forward and two steps back, you're always going to have a ways to go.

Aren't there five FTE slots in chapter 2? Just enough for you to max either Kirumi or Ryoma.

Are there? I could've sworn there were only 3 or 4 FTEs per chapter at most... Whoops, checking the wiki it looks like I am indeed wrong, and he's available for all five so I can't even spin it to still be accurate... Gonna need to edit that...

Now I apologize if I sound dickish. But, my brother and I upon seeing the character's of V3 for the first time. Both him and I agree Ryoma wasn't going to be one of the lucky ones because we both agree if you are a sport-based ultimate, you're just basically screwed Example. Upon playing the demo I was quickly hooked in on his character, and then when the real game was hooked in on his lore and story. I told myself I would spend time with him when I was done spending my free time with Kirumi Tojo...Then he died. Man did I screwed up royally when I saw his corpse.

Then came his motive video, I thought he would have just one person, just even one. When I saw he had no one, and even Monokuma himself apologizing that Ryoma had no one important to him. That was when I just even felt more bad to not spending time with the guy, not even once to hang around with the man that lost his will to live.

And the worst part is you decided to spend time with the person who killed him instead lol

Ryoma's the best character in the franchise in my mind, and the only person that I think died too early.

he's still got a ways to go

I don't have too much to say about Ryoma. He's cool, has a nice design, has a sad backstory and I think it's really interesting that someone in a killing game has no will to live. I also liked his brief conflict with Kaito.

Overall a good character, I wish he had more screen time.

Also I noticed that Kaede, Shuichi's and Kokichi's weeks are all next to each other and holy shit it's going to be hell on this subreddit for three weeks. I might just avoid these since they are all so controversial, especially Kokichi.

I've never liked Ryoma a whole lot, just because his character is really stale, revolving around the fact that he has no reason to live. Don't get me wrong, I like him, just not as much as most others do.

Dude cares about his cat though, and that's really cool.

Due to his lack of screentime, I never really formed a strong opinion on Ryouma but I can see myself liking him with time. He has one of my favourite FTEs in V3, sprinkled with genuine ‘Aawwww' moments while also blending both his talent and backstory together effectively. His intense reactions toward certain events also make him seem more human like when he responds negatively if you give him the tennis balls before you revive his love for tennis. He's a man bound to his past and unfortunately, it screwed him badly…a pretty interesting character arc imo.

I'll say his character is a testimony to how much of a wasted potential V3's characters can be. When his design was revealed, there were two common speculations frequently made about his character 1) he would be a pervert, and 2) he wouldn't last long. I'm glad that one of these prove false (in fact, he reacts fairly negatively to the more perverted options in Salmon Mode if I remember correctly). He became infinitely more likeable because his character didn't need to rely on unfunny gimmicks and in fact, was to me, a unique addition to the cast as a passively suicidal character in a killing game, a dynamic which I felt has not yet been explored in DR prior. Unfortunately, this makes me even more disappointed that the second speculation turned out to be true, especially since it was the speculation that stuck in my mind most between the two (so his character didn't really get to be explored to its fullest imo). I admit his motive did work really well in that it was a moment that emotionally impacted me despite being a little gimmicky. But imo I feel that the impact might be much stronger if he had died later on and have gained more meaningful interaction. If it was by the same means, it could have shown that even after all the time together, it was not enough for him to gain a new meaning in life. It would emphasise that his past was a powerful burden that he couldn't just brush off by making a few friends he hardly knew anything about. Kirumi may even seem a little more desperate in taking advantage of someone suicidal because she would have interacted with him more to grow accustomed of the signs of his depression. Everything would seem more tragic and probably less cheap as we would have grown to know more of these two. And oh, what I would give for more Kaito and Ryouma interactions…it probably would have more sense than his sudden surge of belief towards a certain assassin. But meh, I guess it kinda makes sense that the suicidal guy would die early if his name isn't Komaeda Nagito (I guess they're both different kinds of suicidal tho) and I'm not sure that my turn of events would actually fit in what V3's story was going for.

Speaking of certain assassins, I'm not exactly sure why but I find his character and backstory a little more unique compared to Maki's despite having a similar ‘edgy' factor. I'm guessing it's because his story actually plays along with the ridiculous factor of a revenge mafia story centering on a high school tennis player compared to Maki's one which focused more on the sad (I can't really find the right word for it now) factor of a child being forced into assassinhood. His story certainly had the more DR spin to it. I think his design being a stark contrast to his gloomy personality and dark past also helped in making him more interesting.

So Ryouma is someone I wished I knew better and I'm a bit sad of his fate in the game. I think him living for a few more chapters or two would have made for interesting interactions, especially since what he was one of the interesting ones in the first two chapters. But with a lot of things in V3, I guess I'll just have to accept what I got.

This might sound dumb but he was one character I personally could find relatable in a lot of points. I am pretty hopeful that maybe if I put some effort in my life I will reach somewhere but then sometimes I have no hope at all and think I am a lost cause. Sometimes I find myself wanting to abandon what I like the most to do because I think it won't get me anywhere but at the same time I don't want to give up in what I do the best. I am also really scared of intimacy with others and I isolate myself from social interactions or accidentally push people away due to my own fears and paranoia/anxiety and I get upset with myself because in the end this kind of behavior tend to affect the ones around me (when it should be the other way around) when in reality I don't want to cause any problem or stress to anyone else or them worrying about me.

A lot of things have already been said about Ryoma, so I don't wanna be repeating it, but I just wanna bring up one more thing.

We know that Ryoma's video said that they had no loved ones, and that's why Kirumi came to him, where he turned his back to him and forfeited his life to let Kirumi escape.

At least, that's what we were told.

It's just curious to me that there were scratch marks on the sink. We can make the safe assumption that Ryoma made them with the handcuffs he had on while Kirumi drowned him.

What if those scratch marks are proof that Ryoma still wanted to live in the end?

You can make the argument that it's just his body's natural reaction. If you're drowning, of course you're going to struggle, no matter how depressed and suicidal you are.

But looking at that sink, that is a lot of scratches to make on a stone sink. I think that there was a good chance Hoshi was ambushed and killed like Shuichi's closing argument theorized. He woke up with water in his lungs and tried everything he could to get a breath of life.

Plus what we know about the murder comes from Shuichi's deductions, and from Kirumi, who was still trying to garner sympathy from the other students so that she could still find a chance to escape. What's to say that she didn't fudge the facts a bit to paint her in a better light?

I don't know if thinking that he still wanted to live when it was too late for him makes things worse than if he just wanted to die, but I think even after watching his own motive video, there was still a part of him that still wanted to live.

This is a heated discussion but honestly, I don't think that Kirumi lied in that scene, however, I think what could possibly have happened is that she genuinely misunderstood Ryoma. It just makes no sense because firstly, Kirumi's plan had a lot of planning and she aimed Ryoma due to his emotional weakness. Considering that her entire plan was specifically built to aim Ryoma, there wasn't much sense in asking for his permission to kill, specially because she had to set up everything BEFORE killing him, in other words, she would kill him regardless of the response. During the scene where ryoma pick up the balls, it's a scene that was left as subtle on purpose and you wonder if Kirumi was really certain about his decision since if you did kirumi's ftes, you can see that she often misunderstood some of saihara's desires as specific requests and it wouldn't be strange if it happened again. According her own words in the trial, you could see that she was assuming that he sensed and knew about her true intentions. Another point I don't understand was the need of handcuffs to someone that was already willing to die and Ryoma's first reaction under the water was to scratch the handcuffs in the sink like he was trying to break them - It's true that it's natural reaction but the most important part here is not his instinct but his desire to break the handcuffs to obviously escape, when you are unconscious and panicking, do something specific like that is very hard. And last, more importantly, the main reason to kirumi's testemony was her way of indirectly persuade everyone else to do "the same as ryoma did" for her.

I wouldn't be surprised if she really misunderstood Ryoma because it would mirror one of Kirumi's biggest flaws that was pointed in the 2nd fte with Kaede: her lack of humanity and individuality.

I'd like to raise two additional points:

1) In the scene we only see that Ryoma turned his back and said he was going to pick up those balls. We don't actually know whether he meant to sacrifice himself or he had meant to actually fight back, and as Kirumi was said to be pretty tough herself it's entirely possible Ryoma's depression affected him enough that he wasn't able to quickly strike back

(Giving her the benefit of the doubt though, I do think Kirumi was genuinely unaware that Ryoma had seen his own video and she was only concerned if Kokichi had seen hers (IIRC she does ask something like that) since it'd out her- As far as she knew, it was enough that everyone else was already aware of Ryoma's offer to sacrifice himself before)

2) Remember how Kokichi was mad about Ryoma's death? Before he shuts up, he says that Ryoma had truly believed the killing game would end (And indeed, both were among the only ones who agreed on watching the videos) and if you recall how Hifumi remembered Celes' real name prior to his death it's possible that Ryoma had struggled as hard as he did because he remembered something he shouldn't have- Hell, this is the same chapter in which Shuichi recalls wanting to die with everyone else but he doesn't know why!

I love Ryoma for pretty much all the same reason as everyone else here. He's totally amazing.

​ Aaah, I woke up this morning and just seeing all this positivity for mah boy managed to instantly warm my heart, bless you all. Now let me add my own stone to the whole thing : from the moment they released his profile, I just got hyped and even more hyped for the guy. And never once was I disappointed.

Without pulling any nitpicks (there are but it's just trivial), Hoshi managed to be everything I wished as he just is what I consider the most original character in this game. Granted he might have a few things in relation to other former characters like being the one with a funny design, but different as thank God he's not a perv, to begin with.

Another character that we're gonna have later also has this, but with Hoshi we get what I consider one of the most accurate representations of depression and a great dynamic offered with it (which most detractors are going to just brush over as "EDGE", but whatever even NISA localized that as Akamatsu's infamous line of « The edgiest of edgelords »). He's acting kinda like a Kawada for me (if you know of Battle Royale even tho Amami fills that role as well), being reasonable, and wise, straight to the point as well, also dealing with depression as I said and despite repeating some similar lines, it's not the only character trait he has thankfully. It makes for a good dynamic in the group, the others trying to help him, him starting to not be so distant while trying to open up. His FTE, aside from all manga references that appear a lot, explains most of his story and what made him that way. A simple but effective story IMO. (There is also how he opens up in Akamatsu's FTE despite not starting with backstory immediately, but also The way he doesn't get a reason to continue to live, going as far as proposing to offer his life to let someone get help (ironic that it wouldn't work that well xD), or even his Mobile Video in Chapter 2, while rather simple, conveyed feelings sooo well, and is easily one of the most emotional moments in the game for me.

Despite all there is to him, there was way to do more, way more than they did. There is like the controversy of his death about him giving his life VS him not giving up that easily with the scratches in the bathroom for example (but then again the whole murder plot barely made much sense), and the fact that you just let a character with suicidal tendencies end up like that is... kinda disappointing IMO. Not that I don't mind that my faves end up dying, but IMO compared to most of the cast that ended up living longer, Hoshi I felt would've been a more interesting asset to deal with, either a survivor who overcomes his issues which can make a satisfying arc, or even a late culprit (but since I'm biased, a survivor would've been cool, better than the actual ones we had).

There is more I could say of him despite not being that complex, but from what I got of him ? At least I was more satisfied than I could've been with Hoshi than other characters who had more to them. Regardless : Best Boy.

I know this is off topic, but is there a character discussion for the best character in existance, Monotaro?

There was at the beginning for the Monokubs.

alright, thanks.

Not much to say that others haven't said, he's a cool character and the best weird looking character in the series.

This dude deserved better!

Anyways, great voice, design, and personality

A little annoyed how they rid of Ryoma by offering himself as a victim, but he would've been a decent character to live if they would've gone further with him. Definitely one of the better characters in V3 and probably the best "toon" character too. Great voice actors for him, reliable personality to depression, selfless badass and loves cats. Honestly, killing him off too soon was too harsh in my book.

Ryoma is a character I can see fitting anywhere, both figuratively and literally.

I could see him as a survivor, as a killer and as a victim. Probably more-so than any other character.

I could see him being cut down early cause of his depression like he was. I could see him living through the game and trying to get over his depression alongside Shuichi like in his FTE's. I could also see him being a chapter 4 killer where he once again sees the need of dying for the group but also sees the need of living, he might even see the need of removing someone else from the game since he knows they would be a threat.

I can't tell you which would be the best way to have handled him. Personally I am fine with how they handled him, though I sorta wish someone held onto the memory of him a bit more, but that is an issue I have with quite a few characters and it made sense for him not to have it. I would have liked him to be a survivor but honestly his FTE satisfies me enough on that front.

i think it's sad when Ryoma die because we don't very know him in the end

i dont have anything against ryoma but to be fair I feel like he is one of the least memorable characters in the series.

Ryoma is definitely a good character to a lot of people in the DR community. While there are definitely issues with every other V3 character such as Angie's manipulative ways, Tenko's degenerate male shtick, and Kiyo, Ryoma doesn't not really have many complaints. The worst I got was that he didn't get much screen time. And that is true, Ryoma does not really get a lot of attention even in his chapter. Instead when Kirumi is outed as the killer the cast was more sorry for her that for the guy who had no will to live. Over all I would go on a long dialogue about how a character was important to the story but realy, Ryoma had little to no importance to the overall plot. Other than that I like his design and would like to hang out with him if I could.

i personally found him really annoying, not gonna lie. his personality gave me edgy white tumblr girl vibes

Ryoma is so short I bet he can only eat ass

Character Discussion #71 - Gonta Gokuhara (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


I see a lot of the same talk surrounding Gonta and how incredibly pure he is, and while I'm tempted to say that's rather disingenuous to his character (and in the context they're speaking, it kind of is), but "pure" is actually a pretty good way to describe Gonta, in the sense that he's easily influenced.

His dynamic with others is rather simple and one-note, but I feel like it's effective when taking into account his personality. He's always worrying about whether he's a "proper gentleman" so his reptite family and human family can kiss and make up (what were you smoking when you came up with Gonta's backstory Tsumugi?) and he's obviously not the brightest crayon in the box, although that's not to say he's downright stupid, so that reflects in his interactions with the others really well. He's the one that everyone likes because of how loving and protective he is, always looking out for others and greatly saddened when he fails. Even when he makes less than ideal decisions, it's usually due to the influence of someone else, whether it be Kokichi in Chapter 2 or Angie in Chapter 3, so the others aren't hard on him. They are slightly concerned about his gullibility, but they have such solid faith in his noble and kind nature that they don't even consider the possibility that it could lead to him killing someone, which is no doubt Kaito's effect on the rest of the group.

I know there are people who seem to have trouble accepting Gonta's actions in Chapter 4 as consistent with his character, so I'll try and resolve that here.

First off, the complaints that Gonta's murderous behavior is "out of character." Gonta is actually consistently shown to be pretty inclined towards violence, the most notable example being the Insect Meet And Greet, although in most cases it's unintentional, usually a result of pressing certain buttons of his, and he is quick to apologize if he does end up hurting someone. It's never with malicious intent, it's just a case of not being able to keep his strength or emotions in check. That being said, I don't think it's too far of a leap for someone to go from accidentally violent to purposefully so, especially when you factor in Gonta's other problems. And even as he's killing Miu, he's apologizing profusely, reduced to a total sobbing mess. Even when he's convinced that he's ultimately doing a good thing, having to personally murder a friend is destroying him, wracking him with intense guilt.

Gonta isn't dumb enough to fall for Kokichi's antics a second time? While Kokichi's word by itself probably wouldn't be enough to convince Gonta to go through with the plan, the fact that Gonta does witness what is supposedly the actual end of the world and the extinction of humanity does help corroborate Kokichi's claims and make him seem a lot more sincere to someone as inherently trusting as Gonta is. If it weren't for the fact that Kokichi had actual evidence with him to lend credence to everything he said, I don't think Gonta would've gone along with it.

While there is absolutely no doubt there was lots of manipulation on Kokichi's end, his plan wouldn't have worked if Gonta didn't cooperate. Agreeing with the plan, even adding his own ideas iirc, actively murdering Miu, attempting to get rid of (and when he couldn't, hide) evidence, that was allllllllllllllllllllllllll Gonta.

Not that I'm trying to absolve Kokichi's role in all this, he's the one that came up with it after all, but downplaying Gonta's actions because he's apparently a super good boy who can do no wrong is, again, disingenuous. This is precisely why Kaito and the others are struggling so much with the revelation, because their preconceived notions of Gonta being so incredibly innocent and good clash with the very idea that he has the potential to do bad things, whether he's manipulated into doing them or not. He's done nothing but act with the best of intentions, even when he hasn't always done a good job of it, and it's not even that those intentions are absent, it's just applied to something immoral, such as killing. And it does a wonderful job of shattering Kaito's naive philosophy of believing in everyone unequivocally without any actual basis, by having the most trusted person of the entire group commit such a brutal crime. While it wasn't the main motive of Kokichi's plan, I like to think that it was a nice bonus.

Let's not even get into the fact that Gonta has been continuously beating himself up over not being of any use to anyone, whether it be during the context of the killing game itself or in any other scenario, so a supposed opportunity to "help everyone" is his best chance to prove himself, as is exploited by Kokichi. He's been stressing himself out over being "a gentleman", and it just keeps on getting worse and worse the more people die and he's unable to do anything to prevent any of it. The offer to kill everyone "for their sakes" is almost enticing for him, knowing that he's finally able to be of some value and assistance to the friends he's been wanting so desperately to protect this whole time, although "protect" takes on a rather twisted meaning in this particular context. I think it's a rather interesting take on the "selfless kill" that we usually get in Chapter 4s.

Gonta's arc does end on a tragic note, but I think it ended on the best note it could have given the circumstances. Believing to the end that he was ultimately doing what he thought was the right thing to do and with the knowledge that his death would be the end of it all, better than finding out he was so cruelly tricked and played for a fool, used as a sacrifice so Kokichi could save his own skin and follow through on his ultimate plan, which is probably the most merciful thing Kokichi could've granted Gonta in his final moments before his death.

Overall, I liked Gonta's character, and thought the changes in the usual Chapter 4 formula easily salvage what would've just felt like another kind, muscular character sacrificing themselves for the sake of the group. Which is what happened technically, but definitely not in a way I imagine many people could've seen coming, and especially not the characters. The effect it has on Kokichi's portrayal for the entirety of Chapter 5 as well as Kaito and Shuichi's relationship is massive, but I'lllllllllllllllll get to those.

Part 1 of 2

When you go into a series like Danganronpa, you can expect to be surprised by the twists and turns the writers pull in the story. And with a cast of 16 characters in each game, you know that the writers will attempt to surprise you with how a character is handled within the story. They can undergo massive character growth, play a major role in the game, or have a hidden reveal to their true nature. Either way, a big staple to this series is how the game tries to subvert your expectations and shock you as a player. However, one trope that remains consistent throughout the series is the Gentle Giant archetype. Sakura, Nekomaru, and Gozu all share a similar personality in how noble, sweet, and protective they are despite their overwhelming appearance. While there might be a couple tweaks here and there, they all share the same core mentality. Come V3 where we are first introduced to Gonta Gokuhara. Based on the demo, we can tell that Gonta, once again, shares the key similarities to past bara characters. He is extremely kind and friendly despite being menacing to look at. Gonta was one of the lesser popular character pre-release simply because his concept wasn't groundbreaking at all really. We have seen the nice bara done before and Gonta was pretty much a culmination of Sakura, Nekomaru, and Gozu's traits.

I wanted to get this out of the way, because I really liked how Gonta was handled in Chapter 4, but not for the same reason as most others. I did find Gonta's send off to be one of the most heartbreaking in the series and it did make me care more for him, but what made me really like his portrayal was how he subverted, not the player's, but the cast's expectations.

The main twist revolving Gonta in Chapter 4 is how he managed to defy the cast's expectations of him both in terms of how someone as sweet as him could kill someone, but also how he is shown to be smarter than people give him credit for. I will mainly be talking about the latter aspect because I think the writers did a great job at building up this climax.

At first glance, what are Gonta's traits? Well he's loyal, honest, sweet, and protective of others. All are admirable traits for a person to have. However, Gonta suffers from being extremely naive and trusting, which leads to him being manipulated by others in the story. Another drawback is how Gonta beats himself up. He always says how he's too stupid to understand something or how Ryoma or Angie wouldn't have died if he wasn't so useless in protecting others. Needless to say, Gonta has low self esteem. And I feel that a big factor to this low self esteem has to due with how the rest of the characters perceive him.

It comes to no one's surprise that Gonta is really gullible and I feel that the biggest indicator of this, and what influences the rest of the character's perception on Gonta, is Chapter 2. There are two big moments that illustrate Gonta's naivety in this chapter, at the very beginning and the Insect Meet and Greet. Both of these moments set up Gonta's and Kokichi's relationship with each other and highlights a big weakness in how easily swayed Gonta can be. The first event takes place the morning right after Kaede's trial where everyone is gathered in the dining hall with Gonta talking about the mysterious graffiti in the courtyard.

Kokichi: "Woooow, Gonta! You did it! I knew I could rely on you since the moment we met!"

Gonta: "What? Really?"

Kokichi: "Yep! So you should work for me!"

Gonta: "Okay!"

Tsumugi: "What? You're going to agree to it just like that?"

Kaito: "Be careful, Gonta. That guy's a real liar."

Gonta: "What? Really?"

Kokichi: "Haha, no way."

Gonta: "Good. Then Gonta have no reason to worry."

Tsumugi: "Will you just believe anyone?!"

As shown, Gonta can be easily swayed from one side to the other with no possible doubt. This establishes concern from the rest of the characters. The next moment is the Insect Meet and Greet where Gonta goes out of his way to capture the rest of the characters. And why did Gonta do all of this? It's because Kokichi, who has shown to lie a lot, told him that the rest of the cast hates bugs and are trying to get rid of him. Because of this, most of the cast had to endure being chased by insects for a couple hours all because Gonta was too trusting in others to suspect anything. And it was evident that they all hated it. I feel that this experience heavily impacted their opinion on Gonta. It's not that they disliked Gonta from then on, they still liked him and found him to be nice. It's just that they found him to be naive to a severe degree. And because of moments such as this, the rest of the cast started to infantilize Gonta.

I feel that how the rest of the cast treat Gonta is major set piece to his twist in Chapter 4 because of how much they treat him like a child. There are multiple instances when the characters talk down to Gonta, saying things like "How could you do this to someone like Gonta?!" or "poor Gonta..." or even "I'm surprised that Gonta was able to do this or that". While the character's intentions are pure, there's no doubt that they convey their lines in a rather pitiful and sympathetic tone. Talking as though they feel bad for Gonta because of how trusting and naive he is. One of the biggest indicators of this was unfortunately lost in translation. In the JP version, all but Shinguji, Shuichi, and Kirumi refer to Gonta by his first name while he refers to everyone else by their last name which is far more professional in Japanese culture. This fact further establishes the childish manner the others go about whenever talking with Gonta.

And unfortunately, the way the cast treat Gonta affects him badly. Because Gonta is striving to become a gentlemen, someone who is useful and charming, he gets upset whenever he makes mistakes and handles these mistakes by belittling himself. This habit of his only grows worse because of how pitiful the others treat Gonta. Between the fact that he fails to save his classmates and how much the others infantilize him, his feelings of uselessness pile up as the game continues. This pent up frustration at himself for not being helpful reaches its climax in Chapter 4 where his need to be useful ultimately becomes his downfall. At the start of Chapter 4 Gonta has grown to become really irritated with himself in not being useful to everyone else. As Gonta said, he's stupid so he's not useful in class trials(something I will talk about later) and his strength is outmatched by the Exisals so he can't physically protect the others. Gonta's need to be useful has left himself vulnerable and Kokichi exploits that vulnerability in the virtual world.

Gonta: "Is this...Flashback Light?"

Kokichi: "It looks like it... Maybe the secret of the outside world is hidden in it?"

Gonta: "We gotta tell everyone!"

Kokichi: "Wait!"

Kokichi: "Are you sure you want to believe a liar like me so easily?"

Gonta: "Huh?"

Kokichi: "This might be a trap, y'know? Shouldn't you check if I'm lying first?"

Kokichi: "I mean... you wanna protect everyone, right? This is the perfect time to do it."

Gonta: "P-Protect everyone...?"

Gonta: "...."

Gonta's desperate need to prove his usefulness to the others led him into falling for Kokichi's trap. Gonta sees the horrors of the outside world which leads him to ultimately killing Miu. I find this tale of Gonta's mentality spiraling downwards due to the rest of the cast's perception of him to be tragic and under appreciated within the fandom. Gonta wanted to help everyone, but is held back because of his background. These drawbacks influence the rest's of the characters opinion on Gonta and only worsen Gonta's self esteem and leads him to becoming more drastic in his actions to prove his worth. His desperateness leads him to committing the horrific act of murdering someone so that he can be helpful to the others.

Part 2 of 2

As I have mentioned though, Gonta's downfall was due to the other's perception on Gonta which were influenced by his naivety and self hatred. However, there is another side of this coin that I have yet to talk about. I have talked about "who others believe Gonta to be" but not "who Gonta really is". I mentioned this at the beginning, but my appreciation for Gonta stems from the build up to the twist that Gonta is smarter than he and others think he is. Throughout the game, Gonta constantly mentions how he is stupid and the other characters believe this too. However, when replaying the game I was surprised to see that Gonta was pretty useful as a character from the cast. While he was no Kokichi or Shuichi, Gonta has his own strengths in terms of intelligence.

To start off with, Gonta has incredible eyesight and managed to catch onto little details about the academy that the rest of the cast missed.

At the start of Chapter 2, Gonta managed to spot a Nanokuma and announced this to the others. This fact caught Kokichi's attention and led him to asking Miu for help building a machine that would suck in these Nanokumas.

Also at the beginning of Chapter 2, Gonta notices the graffiti in the courtyard which becomes an important clue later when Shuichi has to unlock Rantaro's vault.

Later on in Chapter 2 after Kirumi's trial, Gonta notices how the stars are off when compared to when he was raised in the woods. This fact foreshadows the fact that the academy they are living in is not set in the real world.

At the start of Chapter 3, Gonta notices how the floors in the three empty rooms had no nails in them and came to the conclusion that they were supported by crosspieces.

Not only did Gonta have good eyesight, but he was also pretty helpful in trials. Even more so than major characters like Kaito and Himiko.

In Chapter 2, Gonta rushes onto the stage during the magic show and saw that there was no one in the tank. This fact would become an important clue in proving Himiko's innocence.

Also in Chapter 2, Gonta is the first person to catch onto the way the rope way could have been used by tying both ends of the rope together.

In the Chapter 3 trial, Gonta is the first person to suggest that the culprit could have prepared the seesaw trap in all three empty rooms.

These instances of Gonta being useful shows that he is not necessarily stupid, but just naive and uninformed on basic concepts that would be commons sense to the rest of the cast. It's a shame that the rest of the cast doesn't recognize Gonta's usefulness all that much in these moments of intelligence because of how upfront his gullibility is. It symbolizes the disconnect between how talented Gonta is to how talentless him and the others find himself to be. Anyways this disconnect reaches its climax in Chapter 4 when involving the circumstances of Gonta's memory loss.

Following Miu's death, the rest of the students exit from the Virtual World and back into reality and talk about what was going on. Except one person of course, that person being Gonta. While everyone else were discussing where they were during the time of Miu's death, Gonta is the only person with no idea of where he was or the fact that they went to the Virtual World to begin with. To Gonta, all he did was put on the headset and went to sleep. This testimony is incredibly suspicious, but how does Shuichi and the others react? They chalk it up to it simply being that Gonta is too stupid to understand the simulation and treat him like a child yet again with saying stuff like "it's okay Gonta we can just explain it to you". Gonta's clueless and naive personality left an impact on the other characters so much that they weren't willing to suspect Gonta because they believe that Gonta wouldn't understand it. The cast's childish perception on Gonta carries on into the class trial where Gonta keeps asking self explanatory questions which leaves the others fairly baffled by Gonta's arguments. Not only that, but the characters treat him like an idiot even more once Kokichi name drops Gonta as the culprit and suspicion is placed on him. Because they didn't know at the time that Gonta lost his memory loss, their only defense for clearing Gonta's name was either "Gonta is not smart enough to pull off a crime this complicated" or "Gonta has no knowledge of technology". Pretty degrading defenses there you guys?

Later though, the group finds out that Gonta did in fact lose his memory and everything starts piecing together to Gonta being the culprit. All the opinions made by the characters turn on their head as Gonta's plan in the killing defies their perception of him. Shuichi saying that Gonta suffered a character altering glitch in the program? Wrong. Gonta was still his normal self. The cast saying that Gonta was too dumb to commit the crime? Wrong. Kokichi reveals that Gonta came up with the idea to slide Miu's body through the wall on the other side of the map. All the characters believing that Gonta was too stupid to understand the Virtual World? Wrong. He just plugged in the wrong cords.

I feel that the post-Chapter 4 trial was a great ending to Gonta's character because it brings to light how intelligent Gonta can be and how little others give him credit for it. Gonta doesn't get much time to shine at all during the game so I feel that the writers did a good job with what spotlight Gonta did get.

Gotta say that this is a pretty fantastic post that very neatly summates Gonta through the game.

Thank you very much! It saddens me whenever people in the fandom say that Gonta was completely useless because he was honestly a bigger asset than some of the other characters in the cast.

He's still a fool though. How do you not notice that other people aren't enjoying the insects? How do you ever allow Kokichi to be your leader? It doesn't take a big-city upbringing to teach somebody to understand simple things like these. Forest animals (or reptites or whatever) have social dynamics too.

I like your analysis; it gives Gonta much more of a proper story than just "good guy gets destroyed for no particular reason". Maybe the way they translated Gonta into English is part of the reason why I don't quite see it in the game. I don't know.

it's a bit of a contradiction in gonta's character that he seems desperately to want to do right by the people around him, to the point of servility, but is also at a basic level incredibly unempathetic. maybe contradiction isn't the right word -- there are, i'm sure, lots of selfless and kind people who nonetheless have trouble picking up on the wants and needs of others -- but it's an unexpected combination of character traits in this context. gonta wants to do right by everyone all the time but for some reason never bothers to ask them what they need, which could save him a lot of time and heartache and hey, a murder conviction.

If I had to explain why, it's because I think Gonta's gullibility doesn't come from being mentally deficient or even naive as he puts on. I think like Mikan, he's got some shit going on back there. Guy was raised by reptiles, he's gotta have seriously fucked up social skills.

I definitely agree, and I definitely noticed that Gonta was very active throughout the game on my first playthrough and just helpful all around, which honestly just made me dislike Kaito even more for basically never doing much of anything helpful beyond emotional support but he got a fairly good treatment by the cast while Gonta just got snubbed by everyone.

If it means anything, I think Kaito's in game popularity has to do with how charismatic he is and how much of a leader he can be at times which rubs off on the other students.

I like how it did come around to the "believing in others" theme. In that Kaito was being a bit hypocritical for "believing in Gonta", because he wasn't actually believing him by thinking he was incapable of murder

Yeah, I think Gonta made for a great character to represent the flaws in Kaito's philosophy.

Maki also calls Gonta by his last name in the JP version, and Shuichi calls him by his first from what I remember

Oops, I guess I got Shuichi and Maki mixed up.

That's the best description for Gonta I've ever seen. I did talk about that in my own comment, but under all that simple-minded pureness Gonta seems to portray, there's so much more to him, and despite the heavy emotional pressure (read: manipulation) in Chapter 4, it tragically was Gonta's best performance yet...

...Yep, the wounds are still bleeding.

I'm a sucker for characters like Gonta. Those characters that you know deep down don't have much depth and that you should probably be more critical of, but their heart is always in the right place and you just can't stay too mad at them.

Gonta was endearing to me from the very beginning. I love his dream of becoming a gentleman, his genuine glee whenever he is able to do something helpful for people, His involvement in the cases, his budding friendship with Tsumugi that I honestly wish had a better pay off, but appreciated none the less. I even liked his controversial portrayal in the English version. It looks like "pure" is going to be the buzz word we use to describe him but it's very fitting. You just immediately got the impression that this guy had a lot to learn about how cruel the world and the people in it can be, and this environment was going to be the harsh wake up call to that effect. Gonta immediately trusts everybody and that naivety causes a fair few problems. Yet it's not the betrayals and manipulations that seemingly hurt him. He rarely gets mad at the blackened, even when they have little remorse. Even when people do him wrong, he still sees them as his friends. Monokuma and the Killing game itself is his primary "enemy" throughout the game. It's his inability to stop it that eats away at him and makes him feel worthless.

And on the topic of his inability to stop the game, I just want to take a moment to appreciate his motives in chapter 4. Sometimes, we get bogged down, fixating on the things V3 repeats and not recognising when the game actually touches some new territory. And this is one of those times. I, like most, immediately suspected Gonta would pull a stunt like Nekomaru and Sakura, finding a way where his death can help everyone else. But the game manages to subvert this quite impressively. His death isn't what's going to help them, his survival is. I've had my issues with how the chapter 4 motive was initially presented, but the way Kokichi uses the motive is brilliant. Every DR game has that moment where the outside world is established as a fate worse than death, but so far it's been a deterrent to stop them from leaving (DR1) or something they're not supposed to believe (DR2.) V3 goes for something new by presenting it as something very believable whilst also acting as a motivation rather than a deterrent. This whole set-up would not work with anyone except a martyr. And that's exactly what Gonta has built himself up to be from the beginning, willing to sacrifice himself to help everyone else. It's close enough to the original expectations of his character to make sense but still manages to be a twist (at least in terms of motive. The case itself was not that suspenseful.)

Do I understand why others don't like him, in some cases are really annoyed by him? Sure. This kind of nice guy archetype can be a bit too vanilla quite often. He doesn't for the most part learn from his mistakes (although he is initially reluctant to listen to Kokichi come chapter 4.) And they really did kind of wear the Tarzan comparisons a bit too thin in the English version. Like I said, there isn't too much depth to this character; he's very uninhibited about his feelings. But V3 overcompensates for this with a fair few characters. Kind of nice just to have one of them you can understand after a single FTE.

A lot of people have covered parts of Gonta's character (really well, I might add, great write-ups all over this thread despite the contrasting opinions), but I'd like to talk about Gonta's deep hatred for himself a little more, because I think it's important to help understand his character.

Gonta self-hatred is basically the central point of his character. Nearly everything he does is motivated by the drive that it will make him useful. As previously stated by another write-up, this is very much exacerbated by how much Kaito and co infantalizes Gonta, but either way, I wonder; how did Gonta get that way in the first place?

With Toko and Mikan, Danganronpa's two other heaps of self-loathing, we're told they're that way because of abusive childhoods. Gonta, however, doesn't really have anything negative to say about either his real family or his forest family, yet his self-hatred still dominates his personality. So what gives?

I think Gonta's human family was way, way worse than the impression that Gonta gives off. The only things we know about them is that they were very rich and high society, and Gonta's desire to become a 'Gentleman' is motivated by this. At the core though, Gonta is a hopeless, disgraceful black sheep to his family, and I think Gonta knows this. No matter what Gonta does, he never really seems to hate himself any less. As time goes on, it just grows worse and worse, desperately seeking to be seen as an equal, that due to his compete and total lack of human social skills, he'll probably never get, he'll just continue to be the "pure cinnamon roll".

Gonta's character is excessively tragic and while I do love him, I think it is kind of cheap. You're set up to infantalize and love him the same way the rest of the cast does, which hurts Gonta more than anything else. He never gets recognized the way he really wants to be, either, even in his dying moments. He's always still just "sweet, precious Gonta", or some other variation, never a heroic gentleman who they see as an equal. Chapter 4 is really depressing, guys.

I like that interpretation of Gonta, if that's the direction they were going with him, then that make him a good character indeed

This is going to be a lot of rambling, so bear with me.

After I finished V3, I ranked all 48 characters off the top of my head. I ended up ranking Gonta 4th for the entire series, which surprised me at first, but the more I think about it the more I'm ok with it.

I'll acknowledge a couple of elephants in the room with regards to Gonta. He is not particularly complex. Most write-ups in this discussion thread have gone over that and I mostly agree with them. While I do think he has more complexity than people give him credit for, more than most characters he has a couple of very defining traits that dictate what he does and who he is.

This lack can be annoying if the traits themselves are annoying. Hifumi and Teruteru are also very one-note and they are among my least favorite characters in the series. However I find Gonta's naïveté and sweetness to be very charming in most circumstances, and I enjoyed having him on screen, mostly because of how he was used.

I have long argued for the importance of supporting characters in media. It isn't feasible for everybody to get an equal amount of screen time or plot relevance. Characters like Kokichi and Nagito and Byakuya are naturally going to get more screentime because they're more complex and ultimately drive the story forward more. But supporting characters are necessary too, and I think Gonta works very well as a supporting character in V3. He has a very clearly defined story throughout the first four chapters, but he never dominates the action until the later part of Chapter 4's trial. This makes him someone who always benefits the game when he's on screen, which is a really good attribute to have. To me, Gonta is always entertaining, and the game always benefitted from his presence.

Another issue people have with Gonta is that he is derivative. He is obviously the spiritual successor to Sakura and Nekomaru, who were similarly muscular sweethearts that ultimately met their ends in Chapter 4. It is obvious to the point that many people were able to predict that Gonta would likely die in Chapter 4. I acknowledge that this is a fault, it's just not a fault I care about all that much. First of all, I'd say that Chapter 4 is the most consistently good chapter across all three games, and the Sakura/Nekomaru/Gonta type plays a big part in that. Secondly, tropes are bound to be repeated, and while DR is especially heavy-handed with the comparisons and callbacks, I don't care that much if the tropes are explored in new ways, and I think the game does that with Gonta.

Chapter 4 Gonta is one of the single-best characters in the series as far as I'm concerned, and it's due to how Gonta acts both in the virtual world and outside it and how it comes together for one big moment in the trial (which is incredible, mainly due to Gonta's voice acting). Unlike Sakura/Nekomaru, who were fully planning on dying as a sacrifice throughout their respective Chapter 4s, Gonta was planning on living and having everyone else die for similar reasons. On one hand, this is really cruel, but on the other hand, given Gonta's sweetness, it makes sense in a way? What Gonta saw in the flashlight in the virtual world was so bad that he felt that the rest of the cast would be better off dying than seeing it. Gonta clearly has incredibly low self-esteem, and it's this trait that allows the version of him after the Virtual World to reconcile with his actions inside the Virtual World. RL Gonta gets Alter Ego Gonta's feelings of worthlessness, and so he accepts that he committed a murder that he did not remember. Chapter 4s are always heartbreaking in a way, but none moreso than V3, and it's due to fully realizing how Gonta sees himself and everybody else. It's a great close to an awesome character.

One last thing, I absolutely love that Gonta being left-handed ended up becoming a significant plot point. It's random, but I find it to be really interesting.

One last thing, I absolutely love that Gonta being left-handed ended up becoming a significant plot point. It's random, but I find it to be really interesting.

Super late I know, but I also love that Gonta's response to Himiko's chopstick line was one of the only times in the series where the sprite used carries significance.

Gonta: "Oh...but Gonta used this hand."

sprite shows him holding up his left hand

Gonta is a simple character and that's totally ok. I don't think a character needs to be deep or have complex motives in order to be interesting. Some people may be annoyed by his naivety and stupidity but he's just so nice, caring and sweet that it just makes you love him, plus he always try's his hardest to help (like a gentleman). Although I kinda can't forgive him for killing my favorite girl in the game. Some people like to pin the blame entirely on Ouma and those people are wrong. Gonta knows what's right and what's wrong, despite his aforementioned naivety and stupidity he his own person with his own thoughts and ideas. He could of not went along with Ouma's plan at all but in the end he decided to do what he did because he thought it was right. His death and everything in the trial still fucked me up though, I was on the break of tears when he said his last words and it was hard watching his execution. So yeah, I like Gonta alot but him killing best girl knocks him down for me.

Also a question for the mod that post these discussions /u/KorrinX
, some of the recent v3 character discussions aren't there when I check the previous ones. Can you add them please, I'd like to check them out

[S] 
Yes I will once I get to a PC, I'm lagging a bit behind so sorry for the wait!

For now you can check my profile and sort by 

Thank you!

I'll admit it. I like Gonta but it's mostly for his relationship with Kokichi more than anything. This may be an unpopular opinion but Gonta's core personality traits don't really do much for me. The pure, innocent soul that (seemingly) wouldn't hurt a fly (pun not intended) or the big muscle man with a soft inside who might not be the brightest...both are tropes that never really appealed to me no matter the character. I like my cinnamon rolls rough around the edges and with a hint of something special that distinguishes them from the rest. And to me, Gonta's 'something special' is his relationship with Kokichi, an unexpected relationship that I feel truly highlights both characters' complexities while also setting Gonta apart from his other 'bara' predecessors whose companions (Aoi, Akane) were neither antagonistic nor big game changers. Their joint role in Chapter 4 really cemented its trial as one of my favourites for actually challenging the idea of morality and intentions in more ways than one while providing a twist to the themes of sacrifice ‘definitive' of ‘Chapter 4' (as the ‘DR Formula' dictates). One chose to sacrifice his friends for the ‘greater good' while the other for self-preservation, each bringing out the worst of the other's most negative traits. While both are fundamental opposites (the ‘bara' and the ‘shouta', the gullible and the suspicious, the ‘simple' one and the ‘complicated‘one), the events of Chapter 4 marks both their breaking points where they become similarly desperate to fulfil their individual goals.

Despite Kokichi's manipulations, I do believe that he does ultimately care for Gonta almost as much as Gonta cares for him. I don't have much from the main story to go by with this (because Kokichi is a prick who uses lies to hide his feelings). But I do tend to consider UDTP events as semi-canon so Gonta's graduation event with Kokichi may mean something and show that both of them may just want the best for the other.

Another thing I find particularly interesting about Gonta is that his desperation throughout the game to ‘save' his friends from their dire situation made him one of the students who actively tried to stop the killing game. Combined with his naivety and helplessness, this actually led to him frequently being on the side of the ‘antagonists' of the game for Chapters 2-4. I'm not exactly sure what I'm getting at with this but I feel that this kinda shows that during the middle parts, the ‘antagonistic' students played a more ‘active' role in finding ways to stop the killing game in a sense…but this may mean nothing really.

This was harder for me to put into words than usual (not that I'm usually anymore coherent) but I just want to get my thoughts out. Sorry for the mess to anyone who's reading.

Despite Kokichi's manipulations, I do believe that he does ultimately care for Gonta almost as much as Gonta cares for him. I don't have much from the main story to go by with this (because Kokichi is a prick who uses lies to hide his feelings). But I do tend to consider UDTP events as semi-canon so Gonta's graduation event with Kokichi may mean something and show that both of them may just want the best for the other.

i don't know what i hope to gain from broaching this particular discussion in the gonta thread when god knows there'll be enough time to litigate it in the kokichi thread which is going to be a nightmare, a nightmare i tell you, but:

when it comes to his relationship with gonta, i feel like people tend to give credibility to the idea that kokichi's feelings of... friendship? protectiveness? affection? i don't know. anyway, people think kokichi's feelings, whatever they are, toward gonta are more sincere than he lets on, and maybe slightly redemptive depending how sympathetic you are to kokichi. which, i'm willing to take the trip halfway there, but... kokichi gets gonta killed. like horrifically killed, after manipulating him into taking another person's life, and then spends the entire trial basically publicly jerking off to the fact that gonta's about to get executed on his behalf. and it's all totally avoidable! there are a million ways out of chapter four that don't end in gonta killing miu. kokichi goes out of his way to seek out and destroy gonta more or less as an extracurricular activity/a rhetorical flourish on his stupid fake mastermind plan.

so kokichi can say what he wants (and we all know what his word's worth anyway), and maybe his tears are real, but what he actually does to gonta (not just the other students in general, but specifically gonta) is shit i wouldn't do to my very worst enemy in the world. i can get to 'kokichi, in his warped way, has some affectionate feelings toward gonta that he expresses through manipulation and emotional abuse' (which, yikes, doesn't vindicate the guy at all) but them wanting the best for each other feels like a stretch because i saw what kokichi actually did to gonta and it was the woooorst.

I didn't make myself clear but I don't actually condone Kokichi's actions during chapter 4 at all. It has its flaws but the fourth trial is my favourite exactly because of the moral ambiguity it presents (is it right to kill someone who was trying to kill you? Was manipulating Gonta really necessary? Did Kokichi really have a choice in that matter, given his paranoia and his overarching plan? Is Gonta right for deciding that sacrificing everyone would be the best solution to their situation? Etc etc) and also showing how far both Gonta and Kokichi are willing to go to achieve what they think would stop the game. Sure, Gonta probably would have done nothing if it were not for Kokichi manipulating him but (disregarding the 'consciousness' theory thing) Chapter 4 showed that he's willing to make a decision to sacrifice the whole group for what he feels is best for them (I'm not sure but I think AI!Gonta confirms it was his own decision somewhat...not a realible source but again I don't have much to go on), showing an extreme side of a well-meaning sacrifice. What happened to him in Chapter 4 was the best way for his character arc to go imo and I feel that his dynamic with Kokichi played a large part in that.

Personally, I feel being sympathetic and sincere are two different things. Kokichi doesn't really deserve any sympathy, much less redemption after all that he's done but that doesn't mean his feelings towards Gonta are completely insincere. Yes, that bit of sincerity on Kokichi's part would never excuse how he manipulated Gonta for his own 'selfish' intentions but they both were put into a situation designed to bring out the worst in them and that's basically what chapter 4 shows. We saw the worst of Gonta's gullibility and desperation and the worst of Kokichi's paranoia and manipulations. Sincerity comes into the picture in that it paints Kokichi's actions in a different but still not sympathetic light. It amplifies his own desperation at the moment as he's willing to cast aside the relationship he had developed with Gonta, showing just how far he's reached past his breaking point. I just feel that bit of sincerity is important to make their dynamic more complex. I realised I worded myself horribly when I said that they wanted the 'best from each other'. I kinda oversimplified their whole relationship by saying that. My mistake. Now that i have a somewhat clearer idea of my points, I feel this may be true only under more natural or normal circumstances which brings the best out of their relationship. For the reasons i mentioned above, I still do think their relationship being more 'affectionate' than it's explicitly shown during the killing game shouldnt be downplayed and does kinda fit thematically but my thoughts about this is still a mess so I don't think I'll be able to explain myself further.

Basically, I just like how their dynamic gives Gonta's fundamentally 'simple' character a much needed edge and how they both bring out each other's complexities (?). I don't really think them being closer to each other makes Kokichi any more redeeming. But it may have made a perfect ingredient for both Gonta's and Kokichi's downward spiral into despair.

sounds good! you've articulated yourself fine, don't worry.

i take a hard line against kokichi in general and i think chapters 4-5 he just behaves like an irredeemable asshole, and i won't ever be conflicted on my feelings about his behaviour in those chapters (unacceptable and idiotic, respectively), but like... that's the point of those two sections, really: a big lavish display of kokichi's evil followed by the rotten fruit of his constant scheming. it's a very nagito arc and kokichi is a very nagito villain so i might as well make my peace with it.

with all that said, that's my hangup and i take your general point that gonta and kokichi bounce off each other in some way that enriches both characters.

Cool. English isn't my first language so I have trouble finding the right words and explaining my thoughts sometimes.

i take a hard line against kokichi in general

He maybe my favourite but I admit he can be a brat sometimes all the time and it's understandable to hate him after what he did to Gonta. It was a bit excessive but that's the whole point of his plan after all. One of my main gripes with him is that he's shoved too much into a nagito role when they could've done something different with him. I guess his relationship with Gonta and Kaito may have give him something to differentiate him from nagito but eh, idk

Gonta is one of my favorite V3 characters! He's also largely useless throughout the entire game. He's adorable and charming and funny! And he's a murderer who also tried to get all of his classmates killed. He helped out the group by being the only one to notice the Nanokumas! But he didn't know what they were and the mystery behind them wasn't solved until after his death.

I understand why people are neutral towards him because he played such a small role in the game's overall story. I get why there's frustration towards his lack of intelligence, dangerously high naïveté, and constant enabling of Kokichi's antics. If you're not already inclined towards cute bara boys like I am, I can see Gonta being a very irritating character. But he made me smile consistently throughout the game, so for that I have to give him praise.

gonta is one of the most straightforward characters in v3. his defining characteristic is his naivete. this is generally treated as a positive quality because this is a franchise that venerates those who unflaggingly believe the best in the people around them, and because there are many more obviously harmful traits at play in this cast (kokichi's deception, angie's megalomania, korekiyo's sister-fucking and serial killing). but that same quality also leads to atrocities like the insect meet and greet, and the murder of miu. i suppose there's something interesting about someone whose naive outlook gives seed to some fairly dark impulses, but ultimately that aspect of gonta's character gets backgrounded in favour of his larger legacy as the sacrificial lamb on the altar of kokichi's evil.

which is fine, but also kind of annoying, since he's one of many v3 characters who repeatedly contribute to bad situations but never get brought up on it. between his role in facilitating kokichi's fuckery in chapter two, his abject submission to the student council in chapter three, and then of course chapter four in its totality, gonta spends more time badly fucking shit up than almost any non-kokichi character in the entire narrative, but it largely gets ignored in favour of giving him the standard hero's send-off. and i get it, because purely in terms of intention he's one of the most guileless students in the cast, and never consciously malicious, but also... get your shit together, gonta! learn something from your constant terrible decisions! take a moment to consider whether you're being manipulated by the people around you!

the comparison i draw is to sakura from the first game. sakura is similarly characterized by her selflessness, and is also someone who is Doing Wrong by being monokuma's mole, even if it's her protectiveness of the people she loves that's led her into that situation. but the distinction is that sakura faces (justifiable) criticism for her duplicity, and tries to do right to remedy her misdeeds, and takes actual agency in determining her path forward, and can generally handle herself in the social milieu of the group. with gonta, i often found myself frustrated by his constant willingness to just take at face value the words of the last person who spoke to him (even someone toxic like kokichi, who was proven over and over to be acting against the group's best interests) and how often the game seemed to paint this as laudable innocence instead of gullibility and a lack of critical thinking. and like i know gonta is dumb as shit, but you don't need to be a particularly bright bulb to figure out that kokichi is up to no good. he'll tell you to your face. it's his whole thing.

gonta might be my least favourite character in v3. i just don't have a lot of time for a character that ineffectual and spineless. i'm also not that hot on kaiji tang's english language portrayal, which can get a bit precious. sorry, gonta.

Angie is good

oh my 80,000 word essay in praise of angie will bring you to tears, rest assured

A perspective from a non-superfan who was capable of completely failing to notice the similarities between this game's mysteries and the previous games' mysteries, though they seem stupidly obvious once they're pointed out: Gonta is a big problem, not primarily because he's too thin a character or because he's too similar to anything (I naively took him on his own terms), but rather because he exists to torment the player. He's so charming and good-hearted that almost everybody will naturally like him, and most of what he does in the plot is to mess up in ways that make him (and probably the player) sad. His main job is to suffer so that we can feel sad about watching him suffer. It's cruel to make a character like that.

This game has an in-world excuse, which is that the mastermind designed his story and so, if anybody is cruel, it is the mastermind, not the game's own writers. But that twist only properly arises after Gonta has already delivered his payload of misery, and at that point it's too late. The game goes out of its way to make the player experience Gonta's pathetic destruction as if it were just what it appeared to be, without any fourth-wall warpage to mitigate it. That is just mean. And this particular mean thing was done by the real-world creators of the game, not by the in-game mastermind. The unfortunate effect is that as a person observing a character, I dislike Gonta, even though if I were a person living in his world I would like him (because how could you not).

I don't think it's right to create a character so perfectly good, and so endlessly incompetent, that he cannot possibly avoid tragedy when put into the killing game except by luck - unless you're also willing to give him that luck. If Akane survived then Gonta can survive. I did the game the favor of suspending my disbelief about how impossibly good, strong, and foolish Gonta could be. It should pay me back by keeping him alive, or failing that, by at least killing him in a way that preserved his dignity. (And again, if he was supposed to have an impossibly extreme personality because the mastermind wanted it that way - and because, in turn, the in-world audience was expected to have wanted it that way - then the game needed to specifically acknowledge and address that in some substantial way, rather than hiding it so that I could feel as sad as possible and then forgetting all about it so that other murders could take over the story.)

This criticism weakens if it's established that Gonta is not actually impossibly good-yet-stupid, because he did in fact do some clever things and murder somebody and try to murder everybody else too. But his clever acts never amounted to very much, and he committed his bad acts because he was good yet stupid. He thought he was doing the best possible thing; he thought (with impossible bravery) that he was even sacrificing his life AND his short-term morals for everyone else's benefit. He was stupid enough to think all that in spite of the obvious possibility that when you're alive and living in an amazing and partly unexplored technological wonderland and you've got males and females around and you have access to the services of the Ultimate Inventor, who seems to be basically a wizard, you may indeed have some way of saving humanity even if the Earth really is ruined. Even if you're too innocent to think that the image of the destroyed world might be a lie, you should still be able to see options. He was too foolish to consider any. He's impossibly stupid after all, and that allows him to do something terrible out of impossibly pure goodness and courage.

Stepping away from the perspective of somebody who was actually surprised that the muscular protector-type person died in chapter 4 or whatever: When I see that the grinding tragedy of Gonta's downfall was apparently designed in part because the author(s) had an apparently pointless fixation on repeating patterns from previous installments (no matter how obviously inappropriate such a thing is in a MYSTERY STORY) I feel even more negatively about it. Like, you made me watch the nicest guy being tortured to death just so you could check off an item in your meaningless ritual of repetition?? I have the vague impression that this is something the Japanese find important somehow... like, how Link nearly always has to fight Ganon to save Zelda, even if it produces an incomprehensible mess of a series timeline, whereas in the US such a series would by default present a new story with each installment (as in, say, Ultima), because obviously why would you repeat yourself, that's just silly. So maybe I'm missing some deep cultural value or something. But anyway it seems really stupid to me.

this is a great take; i love it and you.

it's gone largely unremarked upon in-thread until now, but yes: the character of gonta is an exceptionally manipulative piece of writing. he exists only to fulfill his destiny of unambiguous, unsubtle tragedy, a doomed dumb gentle giant of the 'of mice and men' mould. i never thought to consider it that way because this is a series full of unsubtle heartstring tugs (*kaito retches up blood in the distance*) but now that you mention it, gonta is a notable case.

i don't have any particular ethical concerns about the writing of the character. i'm a writer myself, and i make it a practice to approach all of my characters with a certain type of kindness and empathy just because i think it enriches the art, but i'm also writing literary fiction as opposed to a stylized murder game populated by anime archetypes. i have fewer hangups around that sort of thing in a cast that exists just to get splattered, and am maybe slightly desensitized to poor gonta's suffering as a result (i don't think i've ever gotten truly worked up over a dr character's fate, other than being really really stoked someone finally took care of nagito). but i do appreciate that there's sort of a contract between the author and the reader, in any piece of art, and a character like gonta sort of exists in bad faith of that contract.

like you say, he's just there to be this sort of impossibly noble, impossibly naive figure who ultimately gets done in this impossibly tragic way. in order for the character to land as intended, you're asked to approach him totally earnestly (because otherwise you start picking apart the flaws in his ethos and getting annoyed by his pliability) and your reward for that is total devastation. the game asks you to read him with vulnerability and a totally open heart, which is apt because it's gonta, and then you get gutted for it. it never bugged me, because as i said upthread i never approached gonta with the requisite earnestness so by the time he died i was pretty over the guy, but i agree that the intended outcome of the gonta arc is, as you said, fairly cruel to the player. i gather that some fans kind of enjoy the cathartic despair of seeing their faves face their fates (junko would be so proud), and i'm open to the argument that by v3, players should know better than to entrust the game with their heart... but i also think that in order to have any kind of value as a character, gonta needs to be that tragedy, so it's a bit of a catch-22. it's sort of greedy writing.

great comment. very astute and made me think. thanks.

(and yes, i, like you, never bothered with the pattern-seeking that would allow me to discern that roid monsters die in chapter four, although now that it's been pointed out: why.)

i don't have any particular ethical concerns about the writing of the character.

Hmm. Even though my objection was "cruelty", I think actually my problem with Gonta's story is more an aesthetic one than an ethical one. Watching him cry over and over during his trial gives me a bad feeling, and that feeling is ugly. It's okay if the ugly feeling comes along with some powerful meaning, but I don't see any great meaning in Gonta's story.

i gather that some fans kind of enjoy the cathartic despair of seeing their faves face their fates

Yeah that could be something that justifies it... or like how people like being "scared" by a scary movie. I'm not into either of those things myself.

Analytical-critic-44's Gonta analysis in this thread seems to be saying that there is deeper meaning in Gonta's story, that being the slowly unfolding tragedy of Gonta mistakenly seeing confirmation, over and over, that he's useless, while everybody else ignores this developing conflict because they see him as a child and don't take him seriously enough. I think that if I had perceived it that way, I might have seen the character's destruction as being the culmination of that real piece of drama. That would be fine. Sadness for the sake of meaning.

Watching him cry over and over during his trial gives me a bad feeling, and that feeling is ugly. It's okay if the ugly feeling comes along with some powerful meaning, but I don't see any great meaning in Gonta's story.

i agree, and i think there's something especially cruel about the way gonta's fate unfolds. it's different from, say, kaede's ending, which is written just as manipulatively and is just as much designed to break your heart, but at least the girl is in control of her mental faculties. gonta doesn't even remember the murder occurred (and so is spared the guile of having to lie during his class trial, which every other killer has to do), and any kind of slow unfolding reveal of gonta's culpability is replaced with kokichi drilling it into your skull in the most explicit and shitty way possible that gonta's about to die. the drama of the situation is specifically heightened to make you feel terrible, which... i get feeling like that's a bit ugly for its own sake.

as for whether there's deeper meaning to it all, i'm kinda on your team here. i think there's definitely a case to be made that gonta's story has some interesting components to it if you're willing to apply a critical eye (as i said in my post, for example, i think it's interesting how often his naivete leads him to dark and even violent places), but ultimately, i think your instinct is right: gonta's primary function is to be a ludicrously, melodramatically tragic figure, the world's most kindhearted and naive and good and selfless and pure and dumb etc. etc. person who kills someone for the world's most misguided reason and gets spectacularly and violently executed to make you, the player, upset. the rest of it just seems like gravy to me.

Zelda being a conflict involving Link, Zelda, and Ganon is more like the definition of the franchise itself. It's not checking off a list of elements because a Zelda game without those three characters wouldn't even be a Zelda game. The closest parallel to that in DR would be that DR always has Monokuma and Junko, though they manage to screw up the Junko part all the time.

On the other hand checking off a list of stock elements is bad especially when forced. If you look at cheap Asian soap operas there's always this evil girlfriend character who, amongst other things, invariably ends up doing something like killing the heroine's dog because otherwise we wouldn't know how evil she is. I think it's just a matter of author being deeply misguided into thinking that there are people genuinely interested in watching an evil person kill someone's dog or some nonsense about despair. This is why I don't have much emotionally invested in DR, because most of them are meant to die horribly on purpose and I'm not falling for that.

"It's not checking off a list of elements because a Zelda game without those three characters wouldn't even be a Zelda game."

I'm not sure if Zelda is the best example you could have chosen for this. Good post otherwise.

Zelda also isn't a mystery visual novel that's more reliant on the narrative. There is a plot line, but save the princess from x isn't meant to be as involved.

I have the vague impression that this is something the Japanese find important somehow... like, how Link nearly always has to fight Ganon to save Zelda, even if it produces an incomprehensible mess of a series timeline, whereas in the US such a series would by default present a new story with each installment (as in, say, Ultima), because obviously why would you repeat yourself, that's just silly. So maybe I'm missing some deep cultural value or something. But anyway it seems really stupid to me.

This messed up your take for me. I think you're bringing something really interesting to the thread, but what you're saying is more a criticism of Danganronpa than it can be extrapolated to Japanese games (there are very many similar occurrences in English canons too wrt repeating villains and messed up chronology, it's more of a genre thing) or even then from Japanese culture. Danganronpa itself is a series marked by repetitive tragedy, and DRV3 stands out as a game that falls back on pastiches of its established tropes in order to grind out pain.

If you read old detective fiction and murder mysteries, you'll see that a lot of them rely to varying degrees on that kind of self-awareness, because there are only so many possible permutations of 'whodunnit', and so subversion and variation are the only way to keep it fresh. Danganronpa takes that to the point of self-parody; DRV3 is often at heart just a mashup of the previous games, something the game twist pretty much directly points out. This is a series that's tangled itself up so deeply in its previous iterations that they hang over it like a cloud; most things end up pretty binary, reduced to an affirmation or negation of the series as it was before. I think that's why DRV3 is 'terminating' the saga, because it's got to be limiting for writing, having those expectations and patterns hang over something so dependent on suspense and character drama.

In Gonta's case, a good deal of the case is designed around the denial and cognitive dissonance it seeks to invoke in the player over its obviousness and the affection elicited in the manner you point out. Many of the cases, as plotlines, rely directly on the love or hate the character evokes, just Gonta's is very overt as there isn't any real other special twist (Kaede's has the protagonist twist, etc.) and they lean hard into it.

I'm not saying it's right or wrong or anything, just that it's not a Japanese thing, it's a Danganronpa V3 thing that evolves out of the writing (this is a series that will throw it's Junko again in your face), and somewhat the genre it's in. Very similar Japanese series to DRV3 don't have anything similar at all in the means of repetitiveness.

This is my favorite post in the thread, and sums up exactly why I couldn't care about Gonta. During the whole Ch4 sequence I didn't feel sad at all, it just felt twisted. And incredibly emotionally manipulative by the writers. There's nothing enjoyable about it

​Hey. But That Gonta, right ? Gonta nice, right ? Gonta so nice, so pure, so innocent right. SO PRECIOUS GONTA IS, YOU SEE, HOW ADORBS GONTA IS IN GAME, RIGHT, RIIIIIIGHT ?!!

.......And that's it.

Seriously game, that's what you're gonna give me ? It's literally the straightiest thing this series ever made for a character like Gokuhara Gonta. Bara Giant Character ? Check. Absolutely "gentle" (sorry kotoko) and nice ? Check. Dies in Chapter 4 ? Check, check and check agai- oh wait, before I'm being told of "He's the only bara who kills", it's just cuz they switch things around every game to avoid a complete copypasta (DR1 it's a suicide, SDR2 it's a victim, only thing left was a killer), and even then it's not completely that since by going by DR's absurd rules, a suicide is still a murder since for Monokuma you still kill someone... yourself XD Of course, he's not literally the same as Oogami and Nidai were before him, those two still were very different even for sharing the common trend of being that Big Bara Giant, but unlike Oogami who subverted some expectations (like you can't say you see a huge highschool fighter being the strongest in the world every day), and Nidai who had that thing for being a robot (which came more into play than his physical strength, but that still was made more into the allusion that he had to deal with his cancer and how happy he felt even as a machine to not deal with that anymore).

I'll still at least give credit for how they made him seem like he's the dumbest in the cast but he's not as dumb as he looks, evidenced by Chapter 2 when he explained the transporting device by himself, or Chapter 4 when, despite having no recollection of going into the program, still catching up in discussions with everyone at the trial. There is also his backstory in FTEs, dumb but funny enough to follow.

But yeah, aside from that, Gonta feels just there to fill a part with barely anything than just repeating the same lines everytime, staying stagnant the whole time while breaking most people's hearts with cheap PURITY cuz apparently blushing and crying faces are all that matters to make a well-written character. What I've felt instead is not even a character, just a little white sheep being set up for classic tragedy later, instead of doing something more clever (or, hell, let's go that far : having someone else doing something more interesting instead), it just feel cheap and it's feeling like cheating when you know since the beginning of the game where it's going.

Of course, knowing where a character is going since the beginning in this game is not always a bad thing (like I enjoyed Ouma despite my gripes with him cuz despite knowing that he'll be the Chapter 5 victim since the beginning cuz that's the formula, he demonstrated how amusing he was to me at least), but here nothing really feels like there was something that they took advantage of with Gonta. Hell, they have a thing I didn't like in SDR2-4 when they have Komaeda overshadowing Tanaka most of the time, but at least the latter gets something to do with his face-off in the end of the trial, and that's when it becomes fun. In Chapter 4 of V3 ? The howdunnit is paper-thin, most of the trial is focused on Ouma (even if more interesting, he's still kinda stealing spotlight, which makes more the point of Gonta just a sort of story tool to make Ouma's arc kick in more. Look how he's brushed aside after his... kinda disturbing execution so that it focuses on how our little clown is SOO EVIL)

And maybe he has flaws, that's good (though no one is never going to say how endearing it is to have this naivety and how gullible he is), but it just feels ridiculous that he just happens to be gullible enough to make the exact mistakes every time despite the fact that he said he "learned his lesson" after the insect thing in Chapter 2. Ignoring that in the exact same chapter, Gonta is still ordered by Ouma to throw Ki-Bo into the glass, and he even follows him in Chapter 4 and (even with hesitation) chooses to do The Thing that leads him to his demise in the same chapter, while everyone still alive (which included lots of people still present here who were also there in the Insect thing in Chapter 2, and of course no one question how big of a mistake it is to just leave Ouma and Gonta together even for a second considering what happened before).

Gonta can still work and be put in interesting situations for him, but here being used as an instrument of tragedy and before that just thrown down our throats so that we feel sad (which succeeded for most I guess, as Gonta doesn't have big boobs nor is a girl so of course almost no one will ever say that), but here, just being nice for a whole game doesn't just make the whole thing honest or remotely work for me to get invested in the slightest.

Kinda bad they just assassinated his whole character with NISA's localization. Poor thing. (I can guarantee that he was more respected in French in his manner of speech. What was that idea to give the Tarzan vibe, NISA ?? He literally hates bananas to begin with.)

(now that I finally finished those three essay in a row, time for the Big Meat for the next four weeks... HO BOI)

time for the Big Meat

KYA KYA KAAA~

I love how much of a kid he is. He is like a kid who can't do multiplication but can name every pokemon, just with bugs.

It is just fun to see him in action. I hated to see him be constantly controlled like he was. I don't think he was his own person for most of the game cause there was always someone pulling his strings. I wish he got to be his own person more, I would have liked to see it.

I like how much he tried in the trials and his much his very specific knowledge could be used, he wasn't as dumb as people seem to think, he can be smart if he cares enough and he definitely seems to care, he is just easy to confuse and there were characters who definitely tried to confuse him. If he were to hang out with Shuichi then he would have been fine and probably one of the more helpful people.

(You know the drill, you might've seen me mention some of this before)

Gonta is one of the worst characters in the entire series

Ok, ok. He's not so bad. He's functional I guess, and has a decent enough arc. But he is easily one of my least favorite (and I won't pretend I can distinguish between subjective and objective, so don't fixate too much on that)

He's cute, charming, and even funny on occasion. But he's boring. I legitimately think, and would argue, that he's more of a waste of a roster spot than Tsumugi and Keebo. Plot-wise he has an extremely small role, personality-wise he's thinner than paper, and when it comes to DR recycling characters he may as well have been the designated recycling bin

Bara with a personality meant to deliberately contrast with their design? Check. Dies Ch4? Check. Then we get to Mikan. The most innocent character in the game that will heartbreakingly turn out to be a killer? Check. Then the comparisons just get bizarre, with Gonta/Mikan killing only because they received a bad memory and decided it was best to kill everyone, then strangling someone. The only real difference between them is that Mikan is a good character

So what's so bad about Gonta beyond that? Well as mentioned, his personality is pretty lame. I legitimately waited until a month ago to finally get to his FTEs, while I had finished everyone else's within days after the game came out. And were they bad? No. But they were just…stunningly pointless. Like Gonta

I'm not gonna pretend I predicted every single thing about V3 from the beginning of the game, but I predicted Gonta would be the Ch4 killer AND that it would be a situation where he didn't realize he was responsible. I just knew the game was going to put Kaede in a situation where Gonta was the rabid family dog and she was holding a shotgun ready to put him out his misery

Then Ch4 comes along: Kokichi'sErr-I mean Shuichi's Gonta's big moment. And you know what, I actually do like Gonta a bit. He was very confused the whole trial, still tried to help how he could, and once he realized he was the culprit he stopped fighting it and accepted it. He had my respect

The emotional punch from the moment? Nonexistent. And Kokichi also steals the spotlight. Whenever I rewatch parts of the trial I even start to skip Kokichi's lines, and what do you know Gonta barely gets to do anything

I actually do think the motive is somewhat interesting for Gonta and how he reacted to it. But I still wish they went a completely different angle with it. One of the things I like about DR is that it always shows anybody can break. Anybody can betray you. They're all human to extent. But Gonta had to be convinced the world ended to kill. That's just not interesting, especially because the world didn't end. He killed on a lie. And I realize every killer in the game killed on a lie, but this is different. It was a lie within a lie because even the lie of Gonta Gokuhara wouldn't have ever killed someone

But if Gonta killed someone with a reasonable motive? Sure, that'd work. And kill him in Ch2 so I don't have to deal with him as long

I'm going to reiterate that I don't hate Gonta. He's cute, charming, and sometimes funny. But so are the Monokubs. And he's just as useless

And you know what, I'll even go as far to say his character has a less interesting personality than Tsumugi too. Tsumugi's was fine. Self-acknowleding plan which was pretty amusing and original. And she could be sweet, funny, sharp, commanding, ditzy. Nothing amazing but waaaaaaaay better than Gonta's "I'm so dumb/I'm so sweet/I'm going to kill you for stepping on a bug"

So in a vacuum his character is…fineish I guess. But his personality runs out of mileage after 10 minutes of gameplay, he contributes next to nothing in the plot, and is so annoyingly recycled that you can see what exactly what his character is the moment you meet him. I cannot care about a character who is so clearly being used as a vehicle for an emotional moment when neither the character, vehicle, or emotional moment is interesting at all

Oh forgot to mention the worst thing about Gonta: this monster killed Miu! Burn! Burn!

Flair checks out

Literally just finished chapter 4 so this is all very raw.

Let me start by saying I'm that one kid that only used bug types in pokemon, and I also am obsessed with stereotypical gentleman mustache and all (why i like Tengan despite it all) so Gonta was easily and immediately my favorite member of this cast.

I had maxed miu and gonta (only other point i put in was into tojo) and I was betting miu would make it and thta gonta would've been killed and the mystery would be over how the heck could anyone have managed to kill gonta. But I forgot how fucked up despair is and how it can warp even the pinnacles of hope like Gonta and Tengan.

Least we got double gonta and least the whole thing happened without him really losing himself. Gont is Gonta, and Gonta is gentleman. Sleep tight you wonderful bedbug T_T

After binging the anime adaptation of the first game and a walkthrough of the second game, then a walkthrough of V3, I came to the conclusion that I didn't like the V3 cast as much as the first two.

But Gonta, gentleman that he is, will always have a place in my heart. I was disappointed when I got spoiled on him being a culprit. But in context, there's a logic to it and it ends up being heart wrenching. I don't think I'll ever fully forgive Oma, even with later revelations.

I guess I didn't really expect him to survive though. The big characters never do. But much like a pointy-haired spaceman, I wanted to believe.

This ties into the game's final message on the power of fiction, but maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to behave a little more like Gonta's ideals every so often.

I'm not willing to sound like a broken record and just repeat all the points my fellow redditors stated, they're all better descriptions of Gonta than I could ever come up with, but I am willing to at least talk about my own feeling about Gonta a little.

With that out of the way, i'll be honest, most of my adoration for Gonta is fairly shallow: He's one of the kindest characters I've ever seen whose voice is simply that of an angel, and even with his frequent cluelessness he did his best to support his colleagues. That's the type of character I heavily appreciate; a dude with his heart always on the right side. Again, I'm not the kind of guy who requires super complex character or kaleidoscopic multi-faceted personality to make me appreciate a character. If I can merely appreciate them for what they're worth and they capture my interest well enough, I'm completely fine with that. That's why I heavily appreciate otherwise simple characters like Ibuki, Gundham or Leon. In my eyes, Gonta kind of applies for the same reason, but right now I have a feeling that that's actually a bad thing...

While I still highly appreciate Gonta's contributions to this game, I will admit that Chapter 4 did try too hard to be sad just to make Kokichi look like an even huger twateroni after the fact... unfortunately, I fell for that a couple of times. Generally, I highly despise emotional manipulation, and things that others say "MADE ME CRI LIKE A BICH" will more likely than not piss me off, but occasionally I fall for the same kind of thing as well... or maybe I can tell the difference between "sappy as fuck" and "genuinely heartbreaking", who knows? When all is centered around Gonta's actions, Chapter 4 worked wonderfully as a heartbreaker, but Kokichi and everyone who hated Kokichi's guts turned it into sappiness with the former's shittiness and the latter's ceaseless bickering to said shittiness (especially Kaito, but I do hugely respect him for actually getting into an Argument Armament just to defend Gonta).

I feel like I need to talk about this for a while: For all the talk I do about not easily being scared by things (I really am not... strangely enough) or not bawling like a bitch about everything and looking down on those "fake-ass reaction videos"... my own weakness to emotion becomes ever more apparent, unfortunately for me... in DR specifically, moments like Himiko bursting in tears for the first time and especially Gonta's last words ("Gonta love you all!") really got to me and managed to turn my eyes red... although no more than that, it still counts as "CRIING LIK A BITCH". Not sure if one could call me an emotional bitch, or if that's just actually good writing going on in DR... no idea, honestly.

But for some strange reason, the same kind of emotional manipulation that was going on around Gonta was no different with Chiaki in DR2, but with her it didn't work whatsoever to me... so many fans will always recall "crying like hell" after her execution, but it just didn't resonate with me... See, Chiaki isn't one of my favorite characters, but I still do like her. It's just that with her, my emotions really didn't flare up... not even a little bit. Yet for other characters like Gonta and Himiko, they did. Chapter 4 in V3 just really worked for me, shockingly.

Can... someone help me figure out why that is? I genuinely have no idea... No strong feelings for Chiaki, but strong ones for Gonta in the same kind of situation... why is that? What am I? ...Why am I?

Ok... back on topic, I will stay true to my words that I heavily appreciate Gonta's contribution to class trials and other things, regardless of how simple-minded he is. While his kindness was the most apparent aspect about him, it thankfully did come as a result of trying to avert a possible bad one-note aspect, and that would've been his low intelligence. It's why Angie began to falter for me... her most defining aspect turned out to be a highly negative one.

My own simple-minded usage of Gonta's "pureness" when mentioning him anywhere else really were just that... kind of like spamming a meme of sorts. In actuality though, Gonta is far more than just mere "pureness", and that's where his "multi-faced personality" begins to show, to his benefit. We're frequently shown that the dude's still ready to become violent, like in Chapter 2's "Insect Meet and Greet", and in actuality most of his very sprites seem to suggest that he's not the kind of character to initially be kind. His surprisingly angry reactions to others merely not liking bugs? At first I was going to write that off as a flaw to "his pureness", but on second though... it's not a flaw at all, but another aspect to what he really is.

Essentially, Gonta is the strong, scary man who does one hell of a good job of practicing kindness to everyone. His strive to become a gentleman? Considering his background, I feel that that aspect of his just works perfectly. And I think that's what makes him such a favorite in my eyes... that, and especially how genuine his kindness actually felt. If there's one character you can trust to have his heart on the right side, it would be him, undoubtedly.

Again, I still believe that me heavily liking Gonta is only for shallow reasons... reasons not unlike my heavy adoration for Ibuki and Gundham; that I simply appreciate their very screentime on all accounts, but it turns out there really is more to Gonta than just his pureness. Chapter 4 made that clear with his willingness to cooperate with Kokichi to kill Miu, and even his early in-game appearance toned down his "pureness" with him capturing his colleagues to partically force his preferences to them, so I do feel that he's not such a one-note character after all... unlike Angie, Gonta's "flaws" aren't really flaws, but just part of what he really is.

Ok... I try really hard not to be a simpleton with my opinions on certain characters, but in the end it turns out I'm nothing more than that... a simpleton. Gonta is one of my favorite characters in the whole franchise, go figure...

fake ass-reaction videos

Bleep-bloop, I'm a bot. This comment was inspired by xkcd#37

i fucking love this guy :D

For people who read what I post in the weekly discussions, one thing I consistently harp on is that the characters reuse traits from characters in the previous titles. When I say this, I'm not suggesting they're exact copy-pastes of the older characters. They're not. I'm not saying it's inherently a bad thing—recycling can be great especially when you address the shortcomings you had the first time. Having said that, Nearly every single DR character feels less like their own identity and instead an amalgamation of preexisting characters, and that in itself isn't a problem, especially because Danganronpa is an ensemble series that has to have a lot of characters to work. But when you have a mystery series like this, it bites itself in the ass really badly when your writing is so formulaic that you do the exact same setups and twists but just shift around the small pool of relevant characters for each chapter.

I shouldn't be able to point to a character from a previous game and make accurate deductions about what'll happen in the current game. Ace Attorney's later games also have this issue when they recycle cases. Again, I don't think recycling in itself is a bad thing—especially since one of my all-time favorite AA cases is recycled, but it only works well when the recycling addresses and improves on the shortcomings of the original instead of just reusing it to ride on previous successes. I think it's one of the biggest things to hold back Danganronpa's writing, and nowhere is that more evident than with Gonta.

Without even touching the game, my very first thought was right on the money. A big, muscular Danganronpa character? What haven't they done yet? Sakura was the victim and killer of DR1 ch 4. Nekomaru was the victim of DR 2 ch 4. All that's left is to make them the killer, so that's probably going to happen with Gonta and it's definitely going to happen in chapter 4, and that's exactly what happens. Don't bother trying to make him an early suspect in case 1 because I know we just need to get to chapter 4 before they make gonta the killer and the only thing they haven't done with the muscular character yet is give them a chance to participate in the class trial as a killer.

Does it matter that Gonta is kind and nice? That's not going to throw me off. I'm sure they won't be able to think of an actual situation to get him to kill someone that'd let us explore more of his character in depth, so they'll just come up with a deus ex machina. I think /u/jesusmonroe
 described it best by saying that Gonta is a rabid dog and Kodaka gave you a shotgun.

Gonta isn't exactly like Sakura and he's not like nekomaru. They're not just pure copypastes of each other and you can definitely point out major differences in their character. That doesn't mean that Gonta doesn't have several major traits in common with preexisting Dagnanronpa characters. I pretty much consider him "bara Mikan" for similar reasons. Like Mikan, he wants to be accepted and feel useful to others—Mikan in particular had endured so much abuse that she liked being able to care for people and feel some kind of control or command over someone in her life. She does genuinely care for people, but there's still insight to be made from why she wants to have control.

On top of that, both are essentially forcibly changed by some revelation leading to the big twist of the game—Gonta after being exposed to the flashback lights and deciding that he's just going to kill everyone to spare them the harshness of the real world, and Mikan with the despair disease. At least with Mikan (as far as DR 2 was concerned—DR3 pretty much renders this point obsolete because it's DR3) still having bits of her real self come through even though she was forcibly changed by the despair disease.

Her line of "I became what I am because of the connections around me" and blaming everyone for not feeling loved by anyone but Junko and seeing what a warped person she was to be purely motivated by love rather than despair (despite having the despair disease) still gave us Insight into Mikan's personality even though it's the despair fueled Mikan. Her murder plan was based around a Mikan who regained her ultimate despair memories and wanted to help Junkofy mankind and essentially surround herself with people who love her and be free of bullies. Obviously Junko was abusive toward her, but her own agency is still there despite it being a different person, and for all the issues I have with case 2-3, I still found Mikan's character to be one of the most engaging things in DR 2. Having her scream "I'm DONE" after having to see her get pushed around and ignored for two cases is pretty strong. Of course, the brainwashing thing about DR 3 pretty much renders all that pointless since we no longer see Mikan, but pretty much everything about Gonta feels like copy pasted bits from previous games minus even more nuance.

He even chokes the victim to death the way Ibuki was choked, and we see he worked with Kokichi that he acted with what he felt was in the group's best interest…just like every single chapter 4 killer does for their motive. We see he decided to go fight Monokuma and protect everyone…just like Sakura did. The circumstances around it and his reason for it are certainly different from Sakura, and in Sakura's case we at least have a dynamic where she wishes to atone for her actions, but it still feels really one note to me. We can also point out how every case 4 involves the victim attempting to kill someone before dying (in Sakura's case, she succeeded since it's suicide) or how every single case 4 has to be a big clash against the antagonistic character who gets much more focus in Byakuya/Nagito/Kokichi.

I couldn't really get into Gonta because pretty much everything about him felt like a copy paste of everything from Danganronpa characters that already existed rather than his own character. I wasn't surprised by anything he did because the series sticks so closely to its own formula. He doesn't contribute much to the cast dynamics because he reacts pretty much the same way to everything and almost everyone.

He's a gentleman, he's nice, he wants to protect people, he wants to be useful to people, and there's definitely a dynamic to be made from the fact that he's quite forceful despite how much he cares about everyone, but it's not enough to really make him a compelling character in my eyes.

Even the dilemma centered around him in case 4 with Kokichi and Kaito leading the clash is very reminiscent of Byakuya and Asahina facing off in DR 1 down to the same roles and dynamics. The only difference this time is that the logical asshole character "wins" their side in the trial (and Kokichi has the advantage of having been directly involved in the case, so…) and it definitely gives us insight about Kaito, but I never felt it was really that interesting about Gonta. It was sad seeing him want to try so hard to help everyone and that he genuinely didn't know what was going on because of the memory slipup and seeing him get crushed was sad, but…the character just didn't do it for me.

Gonta is by far one of my least favorite V3 characters sadly, and one of the biggest reasons is how much he embodies so many of my gripes with the writing in the series. The formula shouldn't be so accurate that you can predict exact outcomes out of more than half the cast from just the prologue alone. (For those that try to ask, this isn't just hindsight either—this was based on my reaction going through the game my first time)

Gonta never once felt like a fully realized character to me and more just an amalgamation of previous game characters, which is the case of nearly every DR character, but at least some can be more compelling despite it or use the reused tropes to their advantage by doing something new or big with it. He still has his own agency in that he does choose to side with Kokichi and he's not forcibly brainwashed like Mikan. He decided to kill because he made a choice and a decision about the outside world for everyone else, but even then it's still a scenario completely devised around the fact that they still just try to extend the same character archetype and wanted him in a murder scenario, but couldn't think of a more compelling situation to do it in. I didn't feel itbwas out of character because the whole point of Gonta is that he isn't entirely innocent, but it's hard to be surprised or invested when you o ow exactly where they're going with it and they don't at least take advantage of it. I know it's deconstructing how harmful his naive nature is and he's not innocent, but it's not enough to save him for me.

I don't think DR is saying 'X was popular so let's reuse this character again', but rather the story is pretty much stuck on say 'misunderstood muscular person kills X in chapter 4' due to a lack of ability to develop anything more than the most generic stock scenarios. Even without the benefit of hindsight it's easy to deconstruct anything into just a bunch of tropes given that the nature of the story requires certain things to happen so I don't think it's fair just because a lot of things readily breaks down to tropes. If you go that way you can say every hero saves the world story involves recycling a story of epic struggle that generally has some betrayal thrown in. The fact that a hero saves the world does not mean such stories can't be interesting or original, even if it's formulaic.

I think what makes DR particularly bad is that most characters are treated just as props for certain story elements to happen so it's very easy to tell that this guy is the comedy relief or the misunderstood muscular person because they otherwise have no relevance in the entire game. Often there isn't even a meaningful attempt at a misdirection let alone genuine character development.

Pretty much in DR you quickly figure out there are only about 3 characters that Kodaka actually cares about and everyone else is just a prop. Even someone as important as Junko is mostly a prop, as she has no real motivation and no meaningful effort was made to make her plan remotely plausible. I mean, as someone who likes to write on my own, I get that there are characters I hate to write about who I'd prefer if they just do nothing before having their one line before they get run over by a car. But as an author you've a responsibility to not let your bias get in the way, especially if the character you dislike is supposed to be relevant.

Pretty much. I think since every single chapter and nearly every character is due to the formula, but like you said, he only cares about a few characters. There's also the simple fact that it's easy. It's easy to just make those scenarios by mixing and matching.

I find Kodaka pretty much lacks even the most basic decency for characters he doesn't care about. Here's an example of a murder mystery where I consider adequate decency. Pirate Captain Bob, identified by everyone as most likely first victim in a murder mystery, attempts to finish writing his will to hand it to the detective character but is of course immediately murdered. His action serves no relevance in catching the Mastermind and the detective doesn't even get his will. But that action is consistent with someone who is sure he'll die.

Now contrast that to Chihiro, whom Alter Ego says has very little chance of surviving. Does any of his actions look like what someone who is sure he'll die do? Of course not. In fact everything he does, including Alter Ego, is only to advance the plot. He's quite heroic as far as the cast goes and obviously supposed to be one of the people we root for, but Kodaka only cares about his ability to advance the plot as opposed to the character itself. I guess he made it out better than others, but on a fundamental level he's about as empty as Junko in terms of personal development.

misunderstood muscular person kills X in chapter 4' due to a lack of ability to develop anything more than the most generic stock scenarios

Nekomaru didn't kill anyone and he was never misunderstood. Gonta knew exactly what he was doing, so he wasn't misunderstood. Sakura fully knew why she was sacrificing herself.

So I don't see how that scenario you presented repeats itself.

"Misunderstood" generally refers to how other people see them, not how they see others. So Sakura being self-assured in why she's doing things doesn't prove anything when the game makes it clear that other people are misjudging her and her intentions.

Sure, I can buy that for Sakura, especially with ALL of Monokuma's meddling for that case. But what about Nekomaru and Gonta? Nekomaru fully knew what Gundham wanted and accepted it. Despite what many people thought, Gonta's decision was his own too.

You're still misunderstanding, "misunderstood" in this context does not refer to what they thought of other people, it refers to what other people thought of them. Sakura was thought to be a menacing beast even though she was in reality simply looking to talk to her fellow students. Nekomaru was trying to get his fellow students to succeed, but unless I'm forgetting something he wasn't really misunderstood. Gonta was actually thought of as being far more of a gentle giant incapable of hurting others than a brute like Sakura was, which was the whole crux of Kaito's arguments against him being the killer.

but unless I'm forgetting something he wasn't really misunderstood

Which goes back and reinforces my point of not every chapter 4 being necessarily the same stock generic development thing centered about a misunderstood strong person killing someone else.

Gonta

You're right about him being misunderstood by the others, still it was a misunderstanding that was basically the opposite of Sakura's and affected people differently.

I'm not fighting you on the point of them being misunderstood, I'm simply telling you that you were misunderstanding what they meant

Sure, but that's besides the point when the main thing he said and what I actively argued against is still incorrect.

Even the dilemma centered around him in case 4 with Kokichi and Kaito leading the clash is very reminiscent of Byakuya and Asahina facing off in DR 1 down to the same roles and dynamics, the only difference this time is that the logical asshole character "wins" their side in the trial

I...frankly don't see how.

Asahina and Togami were against one another because of their opinions about an individual, Sakura. Kaito and Kokichi's chapter 4 confrontation was building up since the second chapter and it happened because of their different ideologies since I doubt Kaito would be as stubborn as he was about Gonta if Kokichi wasn't around.

So I honestly don't see how their roles and dynamics were similar and I feel like this with a lot of your other comparisions too, since while you do have a good rhetoric and well spoken points, they feel kind of shallow at times.

seriously, here. not to sound petty but i agree completely. there's a difference between noticing similar ideas being repeated but bogging down everything to say it fits in a formula. it's not even about my own intelligence that i feel this is an unjust thing because i definitely don't notice as many of these things but i don't really mind sounding stupid. it just doesn't sound convincing at all when i come to see that every discussion thread has every character being made from past characters because i genuinely don't think this is the design process or ideas behind the team when they make them.

tenko being similar to mondo or mahiru, just how? they talk about one gender harshly because of their completely different sets of values and yet it's enough to predict that all these characters will probably die in ch.2 or around it? when we go into persona, are we going to start saying that all annoying sidekick male best friends are formulaic? even though it's a deliberate trope upheld by the persona series where every character from junpei to yosuke to ryuji actually has completely different final personality, struggles and problems? will i never enjoy anything in p5 because all characters just fit so well in the formula which are more intentional nods than anything else?

can't deny a lot of parts feel same-y in danganronpa but it's also something which preserves the feel of the series. idk about criticism these days but i kinda hold a lot of respect for these writers and i'm pretty sure they know what they're doing being in their environment than i would. do i believe kodaka is a great writer then? no but i do think he knows what he's doing more than we do after his amount of experience. doesn't mean he shouldn't be criticized, i say go throw tomatoes at his printed picture, but it's real ridiculous to see how everyone suddenly feels like writing a good natured person like gonta going down his destruction is "so mean." as if the past games never did this. as if writing in general doesn't do this.

there's this guy named X. he is having fun but then his impossibly kind mother gets eaten by a giant cyclops. what's this? how mean for them to kill of a character who everyone will naturally like in order to make the reader feel bad and make us feel sorry for X!!!!!!

i'm sorry, i really am. i just don't understand where you guys even come from when you start criticizing drv3. i don't mean to needlessly oppose everyone, i'm more than capable of enjoying things here (side note that i like stuff from compcontrolled, fortunearcana, heartdeco, darkcrusaderares and apegrapes) but i also like to be honest.

can't deny a lot of parts feel same-y in danganronpa but it's also something which preserves the feel of the series. idk about criticism these days but i kinda hold a lot of respect for these writers and i'm pretty sure they know what they're doing being in their environment than i would. do i believe kodaka is a great writer then? no but i do think he knows what he's doing more than we do after his amount of experience. doesn't mean he shouldn't be criticized, i say go throw tomatoes at his printed picture, but it's real ridiculous to see how everyone suddenly feels like writing a good natured person like gonta going down his destruction is "so mean." as if the past games never did this. as if writing in general doesn't do this.

there's this guy named X. he is having fun but then his impossibly kind mother gets eaten by a giant cyclops. what's this? how mean for them to kill of a character who everyone will naturally like in order to make the reader feel bad and make us feel sorry for X!!!!!!

let me take a swipe at responding to this. i don't think this is /u/TsundereKermit
's opinion, and it wasn't my opinion originally (i don't find gonta especially endearing nor was i distraught by his death). another poster made this point downthread. but it's one i agree with, and it's not as simple as 'killing nice characters is mean.'

so when a person (we'll call them the reader) interacts with a piece of art, there's any number of reasons they might feel something. talented authors can evoke subtle emotions in their readers in really ingenious ways. on the flip side, i personally think it's very amateur hour to approach your art as simplistically as 'what can i do to make the reader cry?,' for example, but there's no doubt certain authors do that. that's kind of when you get into little match girl, walk to remember kind of territory -- that is to say, melodrama.

now, melodrama is sort of a four-letter word to a lot of people, but it's very possible to do melodrama artfully. crouching tiger, hidden dragon is one of my favourite movies in the world, and that's melodrama from top to bottom. similarly, as much as we hate to admit it: danganronpa has a lot of the hallmarks of melodrama. ordinary protagonists thrust into extreme situations, pitched wars between unambiguous good and pure evil, tragedy, betrayal, a wasting illness from space. occasionally, a complex character sneaks in here and there, but largely danganronpa, and especially v3, traffics in melodrama.

and so, on that note, gonta. if you take the most cynical eye possible, and i do, gonta is a character who's designed to be 1) implausibly kind-hearted and pure and 2) suffer a protracted, brutal, heinously tragic death in order to 3) make the player cry. this is a very lazy writing trick that doesn't require any particular craftsmanship or skill. it's like killing off a dog or a kitten. obviously, this will make people sad. it's a cheap pop.

and most crucially: people, speaking generally, don't like to be miserable. they don't like seeing awful things happen to characters they've grown attached to. they had to change the 'everyone dies' ending to little shop of horrors when they made it from a play into a movie, because without the supposedly dead actors bounding onto the stage for a curtain call moments after 'dying', audiences found it too distressing. so in order to get around that, you have to bargain with them a little.

there are varying ways to do this, even in a series like danganronpa that brutally offs 75% of its cast. you can, as with sakura, afford the character a little dignity in the way they die. you can make their dramatic death part of a larger, more affecting thematic statement or evocative idea (the mondo/chihiro incident gives you a lot to chew on about the toxicity of gender roles, for example). i cry like a wolf in the valleys every time i watch crouching tiger, but i also walk away with a bunch of strong, interesting characters and gorgeous images to carry with me, which dulls the pain and makes the experience something more than an exercise in getting my heart ripped out.

but if you, the author, keep pulling kittens out of your cardboard box and shooting them in the head in front of your reader's face, for no other reason than to provoke a response, they're going to say, 'wait a minute, i get nothing from this and you're only doing this to make me cry. screw you, quit jerking me around.' it's emotional torture porn, and while there's definitely an audience for that (and i'm sure lots of them play danganronpa!), most people will get fed up eventually. i stopped watching cold case when i realized that every episode would end as tragically as possible for the express purpose of making me, the viewer, upset. not only did i come to hate the sorrow, not only did i not enjoy being instructed how to feel, but i found the experience less and less affecting each time. for a series like dr that relies on gutpunch endings (and a game like v3 that desperately tries to make you cry at the end of every single class trial), burning the player out on giving a shit is a losing prospect.

melodrama is a tightrope, and requires a deceptive amount of skill and control to carry off properly. for me, danganronpa manages, generally, to strike that balance. it's not a perfect series, and occasionally it's even badly written, but i've never felt like any character death has wasted my time or abused my trust (other than maybe chiaki in the anime, who also feels like an egregious example of them introducing a fluffy bunny for no other reason than to slaughter her brutally). but if the argument is that the main purpose of gonta and his death are to provoke distress in the player, and that he's afforded absolutely no dignity on the way out the door, and that there's not really any greater complexity or meaning to his character or death that would supersede his role as a vessel for misery... well, i agree with that. and if you're not particularly inclined to cry just so that kodaka and co. can jerk off to the fact that they made you cry, i can imagine finding that annoying.

anyway, just my interpretation. and thanks for the kind words at the end of your post.

very informative, thanks for taking the time to write this bc now i understand what you mean in the context of dr and in comparison to other writing techniques. i think so too that the author should be conveying and articulating himself before he tries to evoke an emotion in a reader willingly, as a good author can do just that by being masterful at his craft. i think there are a lot of times it's hard to distinguish if it's a cheap trick or something genuine the author felt but now i see how it's applicable to gonta in particular as his descent is particularly disturbing. won't deny i was moved through and through tho.

would you consider kaede a similar example? i thought she was especially guilty of this as she's someone everyone would naturally find charismatic and reliable only for her to be crushed for maximum despair. she does have more of a significance and overall plot relevance than gonta but what do you think?

(other than maybe chiaki in the anime, who also feels like an egregious example of them introducing a fluffy bunny for no other reason than to slaughter her brutally)

this was so bad that i was more puzzled than crying bc if a real chiaki was made to exist then yeah she had to die, but this felt so wasteful and cheap.

tho yeah i think dr is a series which is embedded around torture porn, but isn't insultingly bad bc it does give death enough meaning to not look like wank material for sadists lmao. thanks again!

you know, it's funny you mention kaede because she's actually maybe the only danganronpa character whose death i've had a really adverse reaction to, as far as being actively disturbed by it, and i think that speaks a bit to what you're saying. i think kaede dies for reasons other than fueling player sorrow, although the other reasons are not much deeper (she facilitates the unreliable protagonist twist and she fuels shuichi's manpain, are the two i'm thinking of). and i don't find her as egregious as gonta simply because i think she generally has a lot more going on for her as a character than he does. but if the question is, are the circumstances of kaede's death among the most manipulative in v3? yeah, i would say they are. the fact that she's the player character so you've spent your time living inside her head makes it extra shitty.

I'll address this here. I definitely don't think it's an intelligence thing--I'd never call anyone stupid over those comparisons. Having said that, I do think most of the characters are just mixes and matches of characters from previous games since a lot of the cases are basically "let's just do the thing we didn't do in the previous game that we did use as a red herring."

You're setting up hypotheticals that aren't in the viewpoint I'm bringing up. Persona having an annoying male best friend sidekick is a formula, but not what I'm criticizing here. It's not as simple as "oh, that thing i saw is kind of similar to the last game." It's the fact that I can point for point draw exactly which characters came from where and what characters will do what and why. Tenko and Mahiru for example are both very different when you examine them closely, but the fact that the two still have very similar things happen in the exact same case with the exact same type of character is what makes it feel copy-pasted to me.

The asshole character erring more on the side of following the evidence while the more trusting character siding with the buff character just feels like the same dynamic that Byakuya and Asahina had. They're still different characters obviously, but I still see the same parallel from DR1-4, and that's not me saying they're exactly the same, just that when you have parallels to that extent, I can predict a lot of what will happen since you're relying so much on the older games as a stencil and it kills a lot of the suspense in a mystery game when you have a stencil I can look at to guess what happens next.

Just because Kodaka has experience doesn't mean he's not a shitty writer. I actually try to avoid naming him because he's generally not literally the only one working on this part of the job and there are plenty of outside factors that influence the project, and I think he knows what he's doing. I just don't think he's a good writer.

Again, I think there's a difference between a shoutout and filing the serial numbers off an entire case you've already done. I'm not just picking on Danganronpa alone either, since it's something I bring up on Ace Attorney's sub, among other places. As I said there, recycling isn't fundamentally a bad thing, and it's not as simple as seeing one or two things that are similar. It's when it's the exact same narrative progression just with a different howdunnit attached to it when I see it as lazy, and in a murder mystery series in particular, that doesn't work well since the entire thing hinges on building suspense.

I really don't try responding sometimes because people act needlessly pedantic at times with what I say or flat out ignore explicit points I brought in posts. I don't mind if people disagree, but I don't have much patience for the "nah, you're just stretching it/you're dumb" posts and don't really care to engage them.

well, thank you for replying then. i didn't expect you to address this but really, thank you. i may sound antagonizing but i seriously just want to understand your thought process behind this.

do you think the natural progression is kept the same in order to keep what makes it danganronpa? it's something i see in a series of games often, not just this but when the writers take risks or deviate starkly, it becomes unlike an entry of a well-known franchise and is thus criticized for not being part of it.

i can't say much for what you noticed about the games because you simply did. but i do want to know how your first playthrough ends up being? do you notice these parallels immediately? and have you played the other two games more than once? i actually played dr2 a lot more than any other game in the series so many things in v3 did feel same-y to me (kirumi-peko thing, ouma-komaeda thing)

like i said, i don't like to needlessly oppose either. i'm just perplexed by the way you approach look at it. i won't bother you after this though, you have my word.

I noticed most of the parallels early on, yeah. I went into the game somewhat expecting them, and it's not me thinking "oh wow, Tenko is just Mahiru again" but instead seeing "huh, she's acting kind of like Mahiru in that she's the character constantly making strong remarks about men/women."

Obviously they go in a totally different direction with that than they did with Mahiru, but it still led me to think that of all the characters, Tenko would likely do something in chapter 2 because Mahiru was relevant to chapter 2. I felt that way about any characters that had resemblance to anyone with traits in common with DR 1 or 2 characters that were relevant to chapter 2, and I figured whichever characters were most like Mahiru were likely to be the killer because they'd subvert what they did from the last game, thus I suspected that either Tenko or Kirumi would be the most likely chapter 2 killers, and this was my thought process for most of the characters in the game. It's not really me thinking everything is exactly the same, but there are enough shallow similarities where I can pick up on what happened based on my knowledge of the previous games and narrow down suspects for cases tremendously or guess what kind of character development someone will get and when.

I mostly ask myself "what characters were relevant to each chapter in the previous games," then compare the V3 cast (or DR 2 when I played it since DR2 follows this as well) and see which ones can even shallowly fit. Finally I look at who hasn't been in what roles yet, so I know the ultimate ??? is relevant to every chapter 6, but they already made them the mastermind once so I know Rantaro will likely just be a red herring. What I do know is that there's always a character that revolves around disguising that was relevant to chapter 1 that comes back in case 6 (Mukuro, the ultimate imposter, Tsumugi). So yeah, when you look at the three, they're all very different characters, but it doesn't change the fact that they're all in the same pool serving the same general functions in the same chapters. I suspected Tsumugi as the mastermind really early on not because she wasn't contributing to the story, but because even that shallow connection seemed like they'd subvert it and actually make the disguise character the mastermind behind everything this time.

DR 2 could kinda get away with it because it was the second game in the series and we had no way of knowing the trends that would come through the games, and it also addressed a lot of the shortcomings DR 1 had with its writing. With V3, we've had two games to get an idea of the general tricks Danganronpa relies on, so if you try to do the connections to the previous game again, the player generally expects it, and it's unfortunate because DR has exploited its own conventions to throw you off before. DR2-1 is a perfect example in that they reveal Nagito as the "killer" around the same time mark as you'd find a DR 1 killer. You wouldn't know at this point that DR 2 cases are longer, so if you were to use your knowledge of the older games, it's not unreasonable to be bought in by Nagito being the killer in the moment.

It's not perfect, since I was off on what would happen to a few characters, but I was mostly able to guess what would happen to a large size of the cast thinking like this.

Other series do absolutely reuse their tropes and it's an incredibly common practice. Zelda does it. Mario does it. Ace Attorney does it, Halo does it, and plenty of series have a pretty formulaic narrative when you strip it down.

I'm much harder on it in a series like Danganronpa or Ace Attorney because these series by nature have to rely more on the narrative, and I think knowing a game's priorities is important in when you should or shouldn't care about the narrative more.

If I were to evaluate say, Super Mario World on its narrative, it's terrible. It's a copy paste of the exact same setup time and time again, but the reason I don't is that it's not necessary to the game's design and the game doesn't make a focus of it. Mario primarily focuses on things besides the narrative and its design in not forcing you through necessary narrative makes that clear, so while it's a terrible game if you were to look at it or something like tetris purely from the plot, it's not a bad game in any sense of the word.

When I see a formula being repeated in something like Danganronpa or Ace Attorney, I feel it hurts it more because the narrative is much more integral to the quality of the game. If you were to take away the plot and the characters, you've pretty much lost the game, and even more the case because these are mystery games as well.

You're not a bother, so don't feel I'm telling you to shut up. I'm only going to ignore people who either just twist what I say or aggressively tell me I'm wrong about everything and have to be dicks about it.

thank you, that helps a lot. i feel like i understand your ideas better now that you explain your thought process behind it since it puzzled me more in the sense i couldn't see how you connected the characters or parts of plot. when i go through games like this or others i often try to put some patterns i notice aside and indulge in the experience, you know go with the flow type. even then sometimes it's obvious they reuse ideas but i connected it to them trying to keep the feel of dr. but when you put it this way, i get where you're coming from.

i noticed these basic setups for chapters being around betrayal, loyalty, double murder, sacrifice and unsolvable murder respectively but felt it had different enough execution to hold them up. don't know about you but the worst offender to me was ouma and 3-5. imo not only is ouma is terribly annoying, he's budget komaeda to the point that he was fit in his role in 3-5 when it makes no sense for him to. that was the one point i felt the writers were definitely reusing everything that made 2-5 good and squeezing it to fit v3. anyway, got carried away by sheer hatred but i'll look forward to what you have to say ouma at least.

sorry if i was too pushy or troublesome and thanks again for taking the time to respond, i mean it. cheers.

Yeah, I'll have some choice words for Kokichi when we get to him. I should also point out that I didn't try to actively seek out connections from the older games, it just sort of happened as I was playing casually.

The asshole character erring more on the side of following the evidence while the more trusting character siding with the buff character just feels like the same dynamic that Byakuya and Asahina had.

I still don't see it. Not only Kaito didn't actually side with Gonta purely for their personal relationship but also the Asahina vs Togami confrontation lacked all of the ideological background in the Kaito/ Kokichi one had. I seriously don't see how they have the same dynamic and I really don't get how someone would even consider it.

I'll be bringing it up in more detail in Kaito and Kokichi's discussion since it's not really the focus of Gonta, but I would respectfully disagree and point out that Asahina vs Togami absolutely was an ideological clash in addition too a personal one and that they invert the roles for the characters.

I'm not saying that they're all the exact same characters, but they fill the same general roles as DR 1 did imo.

Okay I'll wait for it. But frankly I don't see how Asahina vs Togami was ideological at all. There was another confrontation in that chapter between Kyoko and Makoto vs Togami with the first two (more Kyoko, really) trying to show that Togami's logic would fail if he did not take into account other people's feelings. However Asahina was too far out there to represent any ideology, she was just pure rage, trying to take everyone's life because of Sakura's suicide.

They had the explicit dilemma of trust versus distrust and how they should approach the killing game. I go more in detail in Byakuya and Asahina's weekly posts. Hina was shown to approach the killing game in the complete opposite way to Byakuya.

Asahina absolutely represented an ideology throughout the entire game and was a foil to Byakuya. It's even part of the focus of her FTEs. I really don't agree that Asahina was just a raging bull bent on killing everyone because it's a big contrast with how she and Byakuya face off earlier.

You also really don't have to keep telling me "frankly." I get it.

I really don't agree that Asahina was just a raging bull bent on killing everyone because it's a big contrast with how she and Byakuya face off earlier.

It's okay if you don't agree but that certainly was how she behaved in the trial.

Hina was shown to approach the killing game in the complete opposite way to Byakuya.

I feel like it's wrong to boil down the group's opposition of Byakuya's way of "playing the game" to only Asahina. Byakuya was basically by himself (with Toko tagging along) for a good majority of the DR1 and Asahina just became a staunch opposition to him (and the rest of the group) after Sakura was outed as a traitor in chapter 4 and the big majority of those who were still alive felt unable to fully trust her, in the end, that caused Asahina to forget that trust entirely and try to get them all killed during the trial while Byakuya's lesson in the same chapter wasn't about his lack of trust but about the fact that he didn't consider the emotions of others in his thought proccess. So unfortunately I still can't agree with your way of seeing things.

Even the dilemma centered around him in case 4 with Kokichi and Kaito leading the clash is very reminiscent of Byakuya and Asahina facing off in DR 1 down to the same roles and dynamics

You just made me realize they did the exact same thing where the asshole character gets punched at the beginning of the chapter too

Yup, They've reused that several times now. DR2's was different in that Chiaki hits Akane to snap her out of trying to kill Nagito and it was in chapter 5, but they've used that graphic like three times now.

they intentionally use them, don't they? most of these characters and chapters being similar is a conscious decision in the end. still you and i have different approaches to the story i guess.

They do us it intentionally, but doing something intentionally doesn't automatically make it well handled, especially in a mystery series that makes itself more predictable by repeating its own formula multiple times.

Just because the point is to have a poor reaction to something or intentionally do something to get a certain response doesn't automatically mean it's good or couldn't have been done better.

well, obviously. the point was more that while you approach it more as a formula, i thought they were connections or shoutouts to the older games. they're not forced into the story just to be intentional and also make sense within each game's narrative.

i'm also guilty of using meta knowledge to predict twists but there's a also whole lot to new things to them than finding correlations between character's body types, traits, talents. this ""formula"" is there which i can admit but it takes a flowchart of comparisons drawn to actually predict from it as himiko is a short female character who survives and shsl ??? doesn't. there's only so much one can predict but that's the difference in our way of seeing it i guess.

I wouldn't call it shoutouts if you're literally copying to that extent. They're just riding on old successes by reusing content to an absurd degree and repackaging the same product. A shoutout is like seeing a statue of Sakura in the funhouse.

What's not a shoutout is building entire characters and scenarios based around an entire scenario from a previous case because you're doing the same thing again.

takes a flowchart of comparisons drawn to actually predict from it as himiko is a short female character who survives and shsl ??? doesn't. there's only so much one can predict but that's the difference in our way of seeing it i guess.

I've noted about the formula multiple times that they take the same pool of suspects each time and moves around what happens to each of the same characters.

I wonder if all the riding on old successes is some form of power trip. People criticize the recent Star Wars films as just copying the original trilogy, but nobody can question that the original trilogy is certainly something worth copying if that's the intent. DR? It's a niche game that was better than expected, and if its budget follow anything like industry norm it's less successful each iteration (game scope is much bigger, while no corresponding jump in sales can be found). When I see Junko appear again my question is 'who asked for you to come back?' DRV3 had some bit about how violence in media is bad, and I'm pretty sure if you send DRV3 to the guys trying to pass legislation to ban violent games you'd get a response of 'never heard of this game'.

I'm not even sure if DR meets the threshold of 'cult classic' and it's quite baffling that they're reusing certain themes as if it's as well-known as "I am your father" in Star Wars. It doesn't even make financial sense since if the point is to just pump out the exact same old stuff then the games should've stayed as low-budget effort like DR1.

Pretty much how I feel. I just never felt Kodaka was a good writer. Pretty much everything else in DR imo is average at worst and excellent at best, and any other issues I have with it would be minor at best. It's consistently the writing team I have an issue with.

I've just never seen a series so blatantly copy-paste its own formula, at least not a series that has to rely so heavily on the narrative.

I also felt they went too far with V3-4 being like DR2-4. I'm fine with the mystery taking place in a different world. That's kind of cool and there's a lot of potential for mystery there (that was pathetically underutilized in V3-4) so even if the premise is recycling, there's still a lot of places to go

But it's really just one lame twist, with the scenario basically being what Gundham hypothesized before being executed: "If I were the one killed, the mystery would be even more confusing"

That got me really annoyed about V3-5 as well, where every beat of the case, while it had some good parts, just felt like 2-5 down to the exact red herring they explicitly brought up in 2-5 being the actual answer this time.

hot take for hot takes' sake: 3-5 is one of my least favourite cases in the series. like you say, it's derivative of 2-5. the entire business about who's in the exisal is a total implausibility you need to consciously ignore even though it's there to hold the mystery aloft. it feints toward a few different fake conclusions (none of which ever seems plausible), it's a miserable showing from maki in her most prominent role in the game, and the whole thing depends on monokuma very politely allowing himself to be duped. and it takes forever holy shit.

i do like the trick with the stopped camera, though; i think that's cute.

eta: also, just as a matter of personal taste, the whole case hinging on exisals and electrohammers and electrobombs (which are vague things whose functions are never fully clarified) wanders a little further into the weeds of sci-fi than my ideal danganronpa mystery.

I remember seeing a random clip from a minor murder mystery manga that goes like this:

Detective explains some impossible murder plan involving some impossible gadgets

A: "Can a high school student really make all these crazy things you talk about and use it to kill someone?" Detective: "I'm sure it's possible."

That sums up how rigorous a lot of murder mystery stuff is. I get that it's pretty hard to make something that's reasonably hard to guess so you need to resort to all the crazy stuff, but if it gets to the point where the murderer force choked the victim I'm not sure you can call it a murder mystery anymore. Sure, the murderer could be a Sith Lord. That's definitely possible too!

oh, i totally get that there's some necessary amount of suspension of disbelief to danganronpa, or ace attorney, or any franchise whose stock-in-trade is exceptionally convoluted murders that only kind of make sense. like, i completely accept that kirumi's best move is probably just to brain ryoma to death and leave him on the tennis court but that's not a very fun class trial. but yeah, once we're in 'who's in the exisal/how does the electrobomb work' territory, i start flagging a bit. there's something ingenious to a murder mystery that (at least notionally) works within the confines of reality.

I think since we're already talking about a universe where high school kids can fight killer robot bears it'd be a good idea to have the characters actually have some kind of superhuman physical power so that they can pull crazy things off. Make it like the NG codes where each character has something only they can do that defies logic and you'll have to figure out what these powers might be and how they play into the murders.

Of course, that'd actually be quite complicated to write about. On the opposite spectrum I remember a fan Touhou murder mystery which goes like 'murderer somehow escaped from a room in third floor, but everyone here can fly and some of us can bend time/space/reality so we know literally nothing!'.

i dunno. i've seen things like that -- the spirit channeling in ace attorney, the even loftier magic in ace attorney vs. professor layton -- and in theory it shouldn't matter because as long as you set out a series of rules for the universe and the clues to solve the mystery are distributed fairly, it's all the same, the same... but it's not. at least not for me. i find the mysteries that are grounded in reality -- even stupid seesaw effect reality -- implacably more satisfying to solve, although i couldn't necessarily tell you why.

continue this thread

I have so many things I could say about V3-5. I'll try to hold off since they'll come up in bits and pieces in Kokichi and Shuichi's discussion weeks, but I think what's so frustrating is how well I think the case could have been executed conceptually.

Even if he was a Tarzan-like character, I loved the big boy, he deserved better. I think he was one of the few characters I cared about or found interesting of the V3 cast (the others being Angie, Kiyo, Ryoma and Miu). Honestly, it's not that big of a character, but if he survived his reaction to the six trial twist would be so much more entertaining than Himiko and the Makoto and a toaster's lovechild. Not that I don't like the survivors, they're ok, but the characters that I mentioned would have made the already crazy twist more appealing, because they have strong beliefs (like Kiyo and his incestual love being false or Ryoma and the fact that his depression was constructed for the audience amusement). Not so much to talk about Gonta, he has a big heart and want to become a gentleman, but it would be hard for a person like him acknowledge the fact that he isn't really a good person.

I don't dislike Gonta but he's just a recycle of other characters. He's extremely nice, like Chihiro, with a contrasting appearence and big strength, like Sakura, is the least obvious killer, like Mikan, and his motive is extremely selfless and loves animals, like Gundham.

Some characters suffer from being a bit flat, but at least they have something that makes them characteristic. Gonta's characteristics are all things we've already seen. I actually find him to be the worst character of all the games, even worse than Tsumugi since at least her character gives we questions.

Like I said, I don't dislike Gonta and he isn't even my least favorite but he's extremely boring and cliche (in his own series).

Gonta was the one characters I knew I was going to like the moment I laid eyes on him. He's pretty much a combination of Sakura and Chihiro when you really think about it, very kind and likes talking about his hobby while also very strong and respectable.

He likes bugs, he wants to be a gentleman, he's so kind and pure, he's strong, he wears a suit and glasses, that is too adorable. :3

Not much else I can say, I really like Gonta.

Gonta is the type of character that is made to be liked similar to Seiko and Chihiro by having a lot of good traits instead of bad ones , and barely did anything wrong but different of them, he did something awful that people shouldn't ignore just because they say he is a "good boy" and blame Ouma only for it. I have see a lot of people saying that Gonta is pure, Gonta is angel and all, while forgetting his important role in chapter 4. First, I want to make something clear that Gonta is anything but pure, naive or angel. He is pretty much a grey character, just like Kaede. The issue with Gonta, is that he is too good that he end doing anything for make people happy and some aspects implies he is unaware of some stuff, mainly because he born in the forest. Both Kaede and Gonta had the idea to kill someone to save the others from something. It had good intentions but still, murder is a murder and shouldn't be treated nicely, which some people do. Is exactly that trait of making mistakes and imperfection that gives a character some space to grow and develop, while giving balance in the good and bad traits that they have, which is the case of Gonta. Even if you accuse Ouma for manipulate Gonta to kill Miu, let's make something clear: Gonta since the beginning knew that killing is wrong so he is not that "naive or innocent" as people claim in most the cases, saying that is entirely Ouma's fault. Gonta might be not that smart sometimes but that doesn't mean he can't distinguish what is good and bad, just like how he have said that killing is bad and he wouldn't do it. Another thing, after so many people dying, you have to take in consideration that Gonta was getting tired and frustrated that he couldn't do anything to help to stop the killing game. One by one, people were dying and he wasn't doing anything to stop it and if he did, it didn't worked, like him joining the student council in chapter 3 to take methods for secure people, ordered by Angie. So, I say that what Gonta have done in chapter 4, Ouma had 50% of fault when he asked him to kill Miu under the pretext of saving the others from the harsh truth of the outside world. The others 50% was from Gonta's own frustration for not being able to save his friends and stop the killing game, which is understandable but, as I mentioned before, even if had good intentions, still something bad to do. Now, another fact that I want to make it clear, which in the same time, disappointing, is the predictability about Gonta's fate. We had Sakura dying in chapter 4 as a victim-killer, Nekomaru dying in chapter 4 as a victim with both being buff characters and now what's missing? chapter 4 killer that is also buff and guess who was the one in v3 chapter 4 ? Our big boi, Gonta Gokuhara. The trope of the big guy dying in chapter 4 has been used, making it quite boring to see it happening again. So, the only two things I have to say as a con about Gonta is how, sometimes, he is being treated like he did nothing wrong. Do not mistake this, Gonta did a lot of wrong stuff and that's what makes his character more interesting. His mistakes. If you see a person with just good traits, what's the fun in it? And the second reason is his role/fate which is a reused trope of big guy dying specifically in chapter 4, with some sort of "heroic" act behind.

Sure is a lot of hatred and backlash on Gonta's character, but coming from someone with a flair of Miu, I thought he gets too much flack to helping out as much as he could. Yeah, I would blame it on more Tsumugi, the writers, or Kodaka (take your poison; they're all in the same alignment since its "their game" and like to copy previous installments' plot points in the most disrespectful way possible). However, to what's given, Gonta still has a decent personality and best intentions to what he could in most situations (like the infamous Insect Meet and Greet and joining the Student Council). Was really trying to bring people together a little more. But with people like Kokichi in the way, it was only a matter of time till he mislead to do something that was fatal. He may had kill Miu, but I have no beef with him in any form.

Gonta is Gonta... Yes, a very flat way to put it, but it's hard to describe him in exact words because he is a rather unique character.

From the outset of the game, Gonta seems like a typical thick-headed but well meaning strongman. He talks about wanting to be a "gentleman", despite seemingly having only a relatively vague idea what that actually means. He also shows within the first chapter that he is head and shoulders above everyone else in his physical strength. In the rest of the game, he also demonstrates unnaturally keen perception despite the fact that his glasses suggest that he should be a bit handicapped.

However, I hesitate to call him "pure" as many do, because while you could easily argue that he is "good" and "heroic", he is definitely not pure. His entire character is a mess of contradictions: He is skilled and quite knowledgeable, particularly about the wilderness, but he is still quite naive and gullible. He is strong, but not emotionally, getting horribly upset at even the suggestion that someone doesn't like bugs and easily breaking down to tears. He is perceptive, until it comes to his fellow students. He is kind, except when he isn't.

Those last two might seem a bit harsh, but consider the insect meet n greet. He doesn't take things slow, nor does he ask the other students... anything really, he just drags them into the room and releases the bugs. You know, after expressly being told that the class hated bugs. Bugs which then swarm and attack the students, utterly terrifying them and potentially causing huge problems if any of them were allergic. Yes, Kokichi put him up to it, but if he had any social awareness he probably would've at least done things a bit more carefully.

Then there's the 4th chapter, where he murders Miu. Ostensibly, he's doing it as a "mercy killing" for his fellow students, but deciding that perfectly healthy people need to be "put out of their misery" without even being given knowledge of the thing they're being killed over is incredibly wrong. However, it's worth noting that his first reaction was to tell the others and NOT to commit murder, and Kokichi convinced him otherwise. It isn't portrayed as a reasonable or remotely kind decision, it's portrayed as Gonta being manipulated into doing Kokichi's dirty work to save Kokichi's life, then being sold out because of course Kokichi didn't REALLY think a mercy killing was a good idea.

Overall, Gonta ends up coming off as a more realistic depiction of the "kind but naive wild man" than the romanticized version fiction usually gives. He may be kind, but being a complete fish out of water with no knowledge of social norms leaves him vulnerable. As a result, he ends up easily being tricked into doing unpleasant acts by someone who decidedly does NOT have his best interest at heart. Kokichi may have thought it was justified by his own plans to end the killing game, but that doesn't exactly help Gonta. The way it's played out it doesn't seem like Gonta would've even considered murder without Kokichi's intervention, and given his physique it seems unlikely that he would've been a victim without extenuating circumstances, so I don't think it's crazy to say he could've been a survivor. That's not to say there wouldn't have been a plausible reason for him to commit murder, him accidentally killing someone (whether in a fit of rage or purely by being a little too careless) would be entirely plausible.

But we should also consider the rest of the class, because Gonta doesn't exist in a vacuum and in the end it's the other students' carelessness that ends up contributing to him killing Miu. It's not for lack of trying, K1B0 directly informs Gonta that he's being manipulated by Kokichi at the end of the insect Meet-n-greet and Angie takes special care to get Gonta into her student council, both getting muscle on her side and keeping him out of Kokichi's mitts. Unfortunately, when it really matters, the students left alive in chapter 4 just let Kokichi run off alone with Gonta, even though they can tell it's going to cause trouble. It's distinctly possible that Gonta could've ended up being manipulated into killing earlier if Angie and K1B0 hadn't gotten in the way, but in the end he still becomes a murderer when it feels like he could've been a survivor.

Gonta is one of the kindest characters to ever exist in Danganronpa. His personality while naive, is one that others are generally drawn towards due to his overflowing kindness. Though I feel like people focus way too much to realize what Gonta is really. Throughout the game we see Gonta as a kindhearted man who is willing to do anything to help his friends. He was even willing to fight the exisals in Chapter 4. But of course where there is kindness there is room for mistake. The Insect Meet and Greet is not a favorite moment of mine. It was just sad for me to see all these characters to go through that. There there is Chapter 4.

For Chapter 4 I feel like people just automatically blame Kokichi for what he did without even thinking what Gonta did. Yes Kokichi did play a large part in his plan but that doesn't mean that Gonta is entirely innocent. He did make the conscious decision to kill Miu after all. I feel like a lot of his fans just immediately blame Kokichi because they are blinded by his innocence. I'm just saying that Gonta did do wrong in killing Miu and that fact is true. I understand why people want to love Gonta but you need to realize that even the best can do bad. Now people are gonna say that Kokichi manipulated him and in a way he did. What he really did was just egg Gonta in the right direction where Gonta had complete control. Gonta while sweet and noble did technically have the choice to not go through with it.

Of course I am not saying that Gonta is a terrible person. No on the contrary I feel the Gonta is one of the most kind hearted people in the entirety of Danganronpa. He is always so caring of everyone. Even as he was about to die he tried to get people to be nice to Kokichi. But at the same time I feel like everybody in the cast just looks at Gonta as just a simple gentleman. Take the Insect Meet and Greet for example. The other students clearly see Gonta as easily manipulated but there is also another layer to this. They are clearly afraid of his talent or at the very least wary of. Even Tsumugi who comments that Gonta's bugs would die out now that he is dead decides to not take action. This shows that while Gonta had great respect from everyone around him, it was more for the fact he was nice and less for his actual talent.

Speaking of talent, I feel like Gonta shows his talent very few times in the actual game. It was just the one Insect Meet and Greet. Other than that I feel like his FTEs basically just showhorn in his accomplishment cause the writers just forgot he was an entomologist.

Gonta to me is proof that you don't need to be a super complex character, or have insane character development to be LIKABLE! Because let's face it, he ain't either of those two. There is just something about him that puts a smile on my face, whether it is his way of talking, his inspiration to help everyone or even how his appearance contrasts his nature (like when Kaede remarks that he looks really intimidating, only to find out that he's a Chihiro level sweetheart). I can understand how some people may not like him, like maybe his Gentleman shtick got old too fast for them, or his FTEs were boring or whatever, but it doesn't matter to me. I'm the kind of guy who doesn't believe in "Character Development = Instant Likeness" (for example, just because Maki was developed really well, doesn't change my opinion on her edgy ass). To me, Gonta is just a naive boy who sincerely tries his best to be useful to everyone and be accepted by them, which is something that I really appreciate in him.

Also his obsession with bugs is really sweet (also another thing which somehow ticks some people off, but eh I ain't judging) especially considering his naive, dimwitted nature. He's like a kindergartner who can't count to a hundred but knows all the Pokémon names by heart.

I'll keep this real short, but I didn't expect to like Gonta nearly as much as I ended up doing. He quickly became one character whom I would lay down my life for, and I fuckin mean it! And goddamnit, the fourth trial REALLY messed me up, I was in disbelief that GONTA GOKUHARA of all people would be a murderer, and seeing that he didn't remember anything and was hopelessly trying to defend himself in the trial was torturous to watch. I even broke down at the end when he said he couldn't consider himself a gentleman after what he did (despite it being his life goal and what he so passionately wanted to be considered as) and told everyone that he loved them before he died. Screw Kaede's death, Screw Chiaki's death,Screw insert character who had emotional death's death, it was at Gonta Gokuhara's death, that my stone-cold hearted ass began to wail...

Tl:Dr Gonta is a precious, innocence sweetheart who I embrace despite all his lack of development or complexity. He's proof in my eyes that you don't need them to be likable.

Also I saw TopTenLists and they listed him on the list for Worst Danganronpa characters, albeit being placed low....now what in the actual fuck....

Gonta is a good example of the fact that not all characters need to have a lot of depth or be super unique to be effective in writing. His character isn't revolutionary and he doesn't get much character development, but he doesn't need it. If he was much more interesting/unusual it'd distract from his role, I think.

In my experience and from what I've seen from other people's reactions, the game gets extra sad starting at chapter 4's trial. I get the sense he's the first death in the game that a lot of people really cry for, and that plus the disappearance of the two most comedic characters (Miu and Kokichi) really shakes up the atmosphere of the game and sets a more depressing tone for the coming chapters. Not to mention his role in various other characters' character developments.

I wonder if they have a saying like "wouldn't hurt a fly/bug" in Japan? Because that's basically his character in a nutshell

You're looking for 虫も殺さぬ/"an innocence which wouldn't melt butter on one's tongue".

Welp, time to re-flair myself in honor of the Entomology Entrepreneur himself.

Gonta is one character that I might have had a bit too high of an expectation for. He is not the most groundbreaking character in the world as his archetype has been done several times before, but his design and talent really sold me, since he'd be the first non-athletic bara and I was really excited to see how he's gonna be like in the full product.

I quite like what he appears to be. He's gentle and caring, but also curious and upbeat. He can be helpful when everyone least expect him to and even has some nice analogies on one of the more casual situations. I'll never forget the end of Chapter 2 where he mentions how the stars in the sky reminds him of how distant everyone is from their homes. Even his farewell is a delicate moment that further emphasizes how much he would carry his own weight above what anyone would expect him to, that he would Kill Miu at his own will (Bonus points for that btw, If I were put in a position where I had to make Gonta a killer, I'd make him kill Miu too lol).

But like I said, my expectations were too high. Considering he's a character written to talk like a caveman, it's no surprise he'd start doing something stupid like being a block of slave to Kokichi and Angie. Those moments occupy a huge chunk of his screentime in the middle of the game and it really sours my outlook on him as just this big dumb slave that doesn't take much effort to write. Even his talent, as much as I fucking love it, is hardly ever mentioned. Sure, he talks about bugs from time to time, but they were never more complex than calling them pretty. Come on Kodaka, surely one of your staff is a fan of bugs, you can ask them questions about how a bug lover would talk about bugs in better detail.

Also, ANOTHER BARA GUY DIES IN CHAPTER FOUR?! Seriously, this is the biggest reason why Chapter 4 sucked hard. Right off the bat, when Miu dies, your attention will immediately shift to Gonta being the cuplrit in hopes that they'd subvert it, but it turns out to be double psychology at it's worst. Knowing Gonta is the culprit makes it hard to get invested in the trial's slow pacing, especially since it's ridiculously easy to figure out how the murder was carried out. Granted, it doesn't ruin the farewell, but there is nothing to enjoy about watching an amnesiac Gonta rendered useless just so he'd be the obvious culprit.

That said though, I refuse to pass off Gonta as a weak and carbon character. He may not be that well written, but I do have sentiments for characters like him. Mainly because not everyone can be like Mikan and have a tragic backstory to justify being gentle and frail, you can be raised by a decent family and environment and still be a gentle person with a passion, possibly even beating yourself over not being helpful when you realize how much helping people matters during certain situations due to the insecurity of stepping out of a comfort zone.

So yeah, love you Gonta. You may be a mess, but one man's trash is another man's treasure, and the latter is exactly your case with me.

Knowing Gonta is the culprit makes it hard to get invested in the trial's slow pacing, especially since it's ridiculously easy to figure out how the murder was carried out.

the 3-4 trial might have the weirdest pacing across the entire franchise. the game goes to exhausting lengths to detail the specifics of the looping world trick that is neither as convoluted or ingenious as it seems to think, and this goes on for roughly seven, eight hours, and then they just tell you gonta did it. it's genuinely so bizarre.

Likely because they were trying to do another idea similar to the funhouse case where you just have a more out the box idea using some kind of alternate world, only that howdunnit was more complicated, the trial itself was shorter, and DR 2 had you engaged with the separate area they put you in during the setup portion before jumping into the mystery while the virtual world just has things start up the second you leave and you don't get as much time to learn about the world.

Sorry for the constant replies, by the way. I just like adding to what you have to say.

no prob brother, always a pleasure

i'm not, as a general rule, fond of the 'explain the universe'-type mysteries, especially the funhouse one. it taxed the fuck out of my spatial awareness and seems like it's the kind of thing that would require being in the physical space (which... doesn't exist) in order to feel ingenious. the whole mystery feels fussy and overworked and reverse engineered from its conclusion, and segments of the trial detailing the exact shape and structure of the funhouse are dryyy saltines.

I can understand that. I like it because the structure does hide a fundamentally classic twist. Usually, I can catch a twist where the victim fell to their death, and even looking back, I can see all the red flags that led to it, particularly the fact that a suitable weapon can't be found, which is usually a clue to the cause of death being falling since the whole point is that the environment is the weapon. I really liked it for trying to misdirect that one major clue. I totally understand why people dislike the funhouse case, but I enjoyed it as one time thing and consider it among one of DR's most interesting and engaging cases. I have a thing for engineering death traps in murder mysteries so the killer has an alibi during the ToD too, so that's what sells it for me.

Either way, I don't think it's unreasonable to consider the funhouse case handled better than V3-4 even if it's not your type of mystery. I think it just took better advantage of the setting and scenarios and gave a much more well written case.

i should double back and obnoxiously qualify every granular aspect of my opinion on the funhouse case because why else are we here.

as a set piece, and a moment in the narrative, and as a one time thing like you say, yeah, i love it. i adore the ~a e s t h e t i q u e~ trappings of the funhouse, love the dire sense of panic that gives way to this sort of bleak tedium as everyone slowly starves to death, love the little special intermission we get to cruise through an escape room with that insufferable fuck nagito, love it all. i didn't feel positively about 2-4 the first time i played through it, but it's a very singular moment in the narrative and a very specific mood and it grew on me.

i'll also concede that yeah, the 'structure of the funhouse' fuckery is the (very) long way around to the fact that nekomaru fell to his death, which i grant you is a classic enough convention (i'm thinking of that loser who fell in the airplane in ace attorney investigations and i bet you are too). and the stuff with the alarm and the soundproof rooms is well-deployed in that i never quite registered it as the obvious solution to everything but i was given the appropriate tools to solve that part of the mystery and it felt earned as it played out at trial (i think sonia and kazuichi were my suspects the first time around, kazuichi because of the fuckery with the elevators and sonia because the game seemed to go out of its way to show her spiraling particularly hard under the conditions).

but i just keep coming back to the agonizing extended segment of like, strawberry house is on the second floor and it's a rectangle instead of a hexagon and the elevator goes sideways and the projection on the floor changes and i just... i don't care. i can't care. and since so much of the mystery hangs on that, and so much of the time spent solving the mystery is spent on that particular thing, it loses points with me. i do think it's probably the more compelling overall mystery than 3-4, though, yes.

and this goes on for roughly seven, eight hours,

You might be exaggerating.

no i believe it's literally seven, eight hours. maybe nine.

How? The part of the trial where they estabilish the nature of the world goes on for just one hour and a half, I agree that it drags on a lot and is one of the bad parts of V3 but I kinda understand why it was executed like that.

If you're considering the investigation, not everything in it was a hint towards that so I don't see why it should be considered. It is possible for the player to discover the secret of the world during the investigation however it probably wasn't as clear for the cast since most of them probably never played the type of videogames that have those loops in it.

That probably is the justification Kodaka intended for the first part of the trail, but you wouldn't really expect it to be such a big huddle. As video game tropes go, the looping world is generally pretty simple to understand since it's akin to our own world. If you're trying to get to Canada from the US, you'd probably head north. But you could go south and end up there all the same.

I'd relate the initial notion of the virtual world less with the real world and more with a sandbox game. In a sandbox game, you don't loop, you have a specific point of the map you can reach but by then you have this invisible wall that makes you unable to progress.

Though ultimately I agree that the padding on that part was excessive. Thankfully the second part of the trial made up for it.

i am not considering the investigation. as evidence please accept this legitimate photo of my stopwatch, taken as the students realize for the first time that the two walls are the same, sometime after shuichi's ninth psyche taxi.

There is some kind of error in the link.

But even so, each V3 trial is basically between 2 and half hours and 3 hours so I don't see how it'd took as long as you're saying it took, especially if you're not considering the investigation.

rehosted the link at imgur 'cause i'm such a bro

iirc the flow is something like, you go in, there's about an hour of discussion about the river, mind mine about the sign, a second mind mine about the writing of the sign, third mind mine about who threw the sign in the river, repetition of the first mind mine to make sure you're paying attention, then a couple more hours of non-stop debate about kiibo's voice, then i think a psyche taxi, then a mind mine, more non-stop debate, hangman's gambit, we figure out the world loops, hangman's gambit, hangman's gambit, non-stop debate about the first wall, non-stop debate about the second wall (we're at about five hours now), mind mine, mind mine, psyche taxi, argument armament with monophanie, gonta gets confused and asks you to repeat everything from the beginning, and then yeah, about eight hours.

I can't believe you could possibly forget the Scrum Debate, that lasts about two hours at the LEAST, to determine whether it's a waste of time or not to re-explain everything that happened in the last seven hours to Gonta, cuz he's a dumdum as the game likes to beat us over the head with constantly. Did you even pay attention to this game?? Why are you even posting opinions if you don't have every single detail committed to memory? /s

oh yeah admittedly the endurance scrum was pretty epic. the 20 minute crouch bind was a bit much though. i had to get a new laptop.

continue this thread

Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image

https://i.imgur.com/o2DYmqO.jpg

Source | Why? | Creator | ignoreme | deletthis

I still don't understand how it took 7 hours to reach that point from the start of the trial since a V3 trial is basically between the realm of 2 and half and 3 hours. The first part of the first half of the trial isn't even focused on the virtual world but in discovering the intent of Miu's actions.

You can check it here: 1 2

that's so weird that this person would do a let's play and then edit out 4-5 hours of the trial. it doesn't seem very fair to their viewers.

continue this thread

It seems that your comment contains 1 or more links that are hard to tap for mobile users. I will extend those so they're easier for our sausage fingers to click!

Here is link number 1 - Previous text "1"

Here is link number 2 - Previous text "2"

Please PM /u/eganwall
 with issues or feedback! | Delete

Purest character that has ever existed. That is all.

Gonta is best boi

Change my mind

I won't lie and say Gonta is one of my favorites V3 characters when he isn't, however I do like him, appreciate his role in the narrative and the trial that he helped cause.

As a character Gonta is very simple, he is someone who was raised in the wild and in order to settle the discord between his wild family and his real family decided to become a gentleman and since it's a gentleman's role to protect others, he wants to do that exactly during his time in the killing game.

After Kaede's wish at the end of chapter 1, Gonta is constantly seem wondering what he can do in order to be useful and protect everyone however he isn't smart to do well in class trials even though he has his moments and his strenght is useless with the Exisals around so he constantly feels like someone unable to do anything. Chapter 4 is when he reaches breaking point and decides he is going to fight the Exisals regardless, the rest of the cast manages to convince him to not to do that but it's clear that his perceived uselessness never left his mind. That progressive evolution in his thought proccess is why I think his actions in the virtual world after seeing the motive Kokichi showed him aren't OOC, Gonta is capable of violent actions in order to protect others and he was obsessed with the idea of being useful, after having fallen into despair after seeing the state of the world, it's entirely possible he'd warm up to the idea of mercy killing his friends in order for them to not experience the same pain he had to go through.

The trial Gonta helped cause has a very good part and a bad part, the bad part being how long the cast took to discover the true nature of the virtual world dragging down the pacing a bit and the very good part being how emotional the trial gets and how good it is for Kokichi, Shuichi and Kaito's respective arcs. Seeing Kaito's sense of belief (that wasn't challenged in the prior trials and were always validated) being broken down by Shuichi, his "sidekick" who only managed to evolve as a detective because of Kaito's support was a great idea, seeing Kokichi manipulating everyone and basically achieving his goal of painting himself as the big villain was also equally good.

-4 points 1 month ago 
Joint effort why I think it kind of weed bro or something

-1 points 1 month ago 
He's at least better then nekomaru and sakura which are garbage

haracter Discussion #72 - Kaito Momota (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


[S]I seemed to have dropped a C in the title...

The C blasted off into space.

SPAAAAACCCCCEEEE

SPAAAAAAAEEEEEEEEEEEE

[+13]Happens to the best of us.

Sees Shuichi, Kaede, and Kokichi are all back to back in the next few weeks

God help us all.

Sees that Himiko is just right after them also

God help me.

[+13]What's Kirumi, chopped konjac?

Well, thats not her specifically, but besides her being a maid, its her entire character, so.

Yeah....Kirumi is about as one-noted as you can get.

[+13]I'll save my piece for her discussion thread.

It's not that Kirumi is a poor character, but she's not as controversial as The others.

Hey. I like Kirumi.

But yeah, you're kinda right. She shouldn't have died so early IMO.

You're free to like her, I just find her really unimpressive from a writing standpoint.

I feel that Kirumi should have been a killer later in the game to make the "manipulating the rest of the classmates into defending you" plot point more impactful.

Nah. Nagito and Mikan exists.

She wishes. rimshot

Like this?

Aww

God will only help those who help themselves! In my case, help consists on not clicking on any of those topics especially not Kokichi's.

drink anytime someone accuses you of misinterpreting the text (two drinks if it starts with 'actually...'). five drinks anytime a kaede vs. shuichi argument breaks out. if it goes on long enough to merit a 'continue reading' link, finish your drink.

I already don't wanna bother reading the Shuichi ones

But I must

I've already written the Kaede profile, but not Shuichi's yet. I'll see you in the debate scrum.

We gotta defend the piano waifu, Kermit. Even if we go to the eye of the storm.

I was not ready for a Muppets x Danganronpa crossover that I didn't know I wanted.

Kermit x Kaede is the ship I never knew I needed in my life

I'm a little angsty that Angie is so far away since she's the one I'm looking forward to the most.

Can't we switch her with Kokichi so we can save the explosive controversy for last? :(

Oh my, I'm afraid but at the same time, not only I plan on reading them all, but also writing some myself.

Part 1 of 2

Ugh, unfortunately this discussion will be pretty short since I have been really busy this week.

Anyways I love Kaito! This may come off as a surprise since him and Maki are blatant writers pets and I already talked about my frustration with how Maki was handled because of Kodaka's favoritism. However, I feel that Kaito is how a writers pet should be handled and I find him to be an improved Maki in that regard. Primarily, the writers still treat him like a human throughout the story and is not afraid to point out his flaws as a person. Chapter 4 pretty much mocks his philosophy entirely in the class trial and shows how his emotion>logic mindset can be bad. Not only that, but Kokichi embarrasses Kaito in front of everyone in how much of a hypocrite he can be which proves itself when Kaito reveals that he has been hiding an illness from the rest of the cast, even though he has said that you should never keep secrets. So I appreciate that Kodaka can put aside his love for Kaito and still be willing to make him suffer consequences for his actions and deal with struggles unlike Maki.

Not only that, but I also love how dynamic Kaito is with the rest of the cast. His jealousy in Shuichi, his conflict with Ryoma, his pupil-mentor relationship with Maki, his paranoia with Shinguji, his insecurity with Miu's insults, his buddy-buddy friendship with Himiko, his disappointment with Gonta, his support for Kaede, and most of all his rivalry with Kokichi(which I will talk about later) are all unique and interesting interactions that give Kaito's character more room to work off of. Compare that to Maki who only really interacts with Kaito and Kokichi for most of the game. Kaito's character is made more appealing because he does a better job at bouncing off of the cast while Maki's interactions are really stale and repetitive. I feel that, between the two writers pets, Kaito was a far better handled character and his supportive and kind personality rubbed off on me.

Part 2 of 2

With that being said, what I love most about Kaito is his relationship with Kokichi which is the highlight of the entire game. What I appreciate most about their relationship is how much they parallel with each other. Their introductions set up the clear differences in their characters. Kokichi is shown to be a really jokeful and over the top person with a tendency to lie, not someone you can trust. Kaito, on the other hand, is shown to be passionate and welcoming, but when Kaede questions his logic on how to escape, he gets angry. At this point we can tell these two characters are polar opposites when it comes to their personalities. Kaito has a big heart, but is dumb. Kokichi is deceiving, but is intelligent.

And these differences are what fuel their hatred for each other, they are jealous for what the other character possesses. Kokichi, who has the title of the Ultimate Supreme Leader, finds himself to be a shitty leader because of how he doesn't open up to others due to his paranoia which makes everyone wary of him. And whenever he finds someone who trusts him, Kokichi uses them as a pawn such as with Gonta. When he looks at Kaito, someone with such simple ideology being the group's leader and role of support, Kokichi can't help but feel envious because Kokichi will never have Kaito's charisma due to how emotionally reserved he is. Kaito on the other hand is jealous of Kokichi's smarts and his ability to contribute to the class trials. It's obvious that Kaito has a huge inferiority complex and tries to mask that fact by over blowing his ego. But whenever people mock him, he gets deeply angry and lashes out at them. So when he sees characters like Shuichi and Kokichi leading class discussions and actually being of use, Kaito can't help but feel frustrated at Kokichi and himself.

While I'm talking about differences let's talk about another key component to their clash, their strategies. Kaito places faith over logic and Kokichi places logic over faith. Their different ideologies clash over the game while Shuichi represents the middle ground of having both faith and logic. In Chapter 1, there isn't any notable moments beyond Kaito being annoyed by Kokichi's antics. Things escalate though in Chapter 2 when Kokichi warns everyone about the dangers of cooperation which prompts Kaito to threaten Kokichi and scare him off. This parallel is further reinforced in the trial when Kaito takes Maki off of the suspect list without any real evidence beyond just having a hunch. Kokichi, who lived his life being cautious and suspecting of others, is beyond baffled by the fact that Kaito's belief in Maki ended up working in the end. There relationship and ideologies clash further in Chapter 3 with their relationships with Maki as they both responded to her reveal as the Ultimate Assassin in the opposite way. Kaito is willing to give Maki a chance and help the others realize that she is just a normal girl while Kokichi is incredibly cautious of her and warns everybody else to avoid her as she is a trained killer. Their relationships with Maki further reinforce the Logic vs. Faith theme in this game.

Finally, their conflict reaches its climax in Chapter 4. For starters, Kaito ends up sucker punching Kokichi in the face after he was raving about the joys of the killing game. Kaito punching Kokichi represents Kaito's tendency to be needlessly violent as an emotional impulse. We saw it in Chapter 1 when Kaito punches Shuichi in the face after he witnessed someone who he strongly admired like Kaede succumbing to the killing game and we see it here now as well. Their rivalry reaches its boiling point in the investigation and trial when Kokichi decides that it's now the time to call out Kaito out on his flawed philosophy, something that Kaito is trying to hide. He does this by attaching himself to Shuichi and insulting Kaito for being a useless idiot to try and rile up Kaito's jealousy. This carries on over into the class trial where Kokichi tries to be extra annoying to Kaito to further escalate his inferiority complex. This coupled with the fact that everyone was praising Shuichi for his deductions, makes Kaito feel irritated. And speaking of deductions, Kokichi manipulates someone as sweet and caring as Gonta into killing someone in order to turn Kaito's belief in faith on him and make him out to be a fool. Kokichi's icing on the cake to expose Kaito's flaws is by telling him that he knows of Kaito's illness and that he is hiding it from the group. Soon enough, Kaito begins to vomit blood from his mouth and Kokichi leaves the trial grounds laughing, getting across the point that you can't rely on belief entirely.

We now enter Chapter 5 where their relationship reaches its conclusion and Kaito starts his character development. Kaito has now begun to reevaluate his philosophy and confront his flaws thanks to Kokichi's influence. Not only that, but the aftermath of Gonta's trial has left Kaito guilty in how he should make amends to Shuichi. Kaito doesn't know how to confront his situation with Shuichi, someone who he lashed out at and almost led them to the wrong decision, except act awkward around him which I find to be really realistic in these kinds of situations. Anyways though, not only has Kaito begun to rethink his stance on putting belief on others, but he has also repositioned his stance on using logic. The biggest example of this is when Kaito puts his bias aside and goes and trusts Kokichi with the electro hammers. Later on, Kaito builds up the courage to apologize to Shuichi and admits his flaws and how he is jealous of Shuichi while he is kidnapped. The same night, we reach the conclusion to Kaito's and Kokichi's arcs and their relationship when Maki infiltrates the compound in an attempt to kill Kokichi. After Kaito saves Kokichi's life, Kokichi lets Kaito take the antidote to help cure him of his poison. In other words, Kokichi chooses to place his faith in someone like Kaito, a person who has a huge bias against him, in order for his plan to work. I also want to add that Kokichi considers Kaito to be "not boring" which is a huge compliment from Kokichi so even though he finds Kaito to be a simple-minded idiot, he still cares about him.

Kaito ultimately agrees to Kokichi's plan due to how impressed he was by it and also because of Maki's involvement with the case. As the two say their final goodbyes Kokichi opens up and they finally begin to understand each other. They finally begin to realize that although there ideologies and beliefs are completely different, they do share the same goal in trying to end the killing game. I feel like their goodbyes are a great representation the growth of their relationship over the game. The thought of Kokichi putting his faith into Kaito going along with his plan after he dies and not abandoning it is something that Kokichi from the start of the game wouldn't do. The thought of Kaito cooperating with someone into killing them is also something that Kaito from the start of the game wouldn't do.

As we find out, Kaito and Kokichi ultimately have a lot in common despite their clear differences. For one, they are both shown to be empathetic and caring people and are willing to help others improve themselves. We see Kaito help Maki grow, we see Kokichi help Himiko grow, and we see both of them helping Shuichi grow.

Not only that, but they are both shown to be really observant people. For Kaito, it's pretty obvious that he can tell who Maki's and Shuichi's "enemies" are by looking at their faces. However, I feel like the best example of this is when both Kaito and Kokichi catch onto Kirumi's plan into manipulating the rest of the cast. Kaito gives everyone a speech about the value of life while Kokichi calls out Kirumi for being a deceitful bitch.

Kaito's and Kokichi's relationship is one of the best parts of the game. Not only is their chemistry excellent, there is a clear sign of growth and development throughout the chapters and is a great symbol for the logic and faith theme for this game.

Ok I felt like I am going off road with Kaito's character but I will finish with saying that Kaito is a really likable and well written character. He doesn't fall into the same trap as other writer pets and is a great vehicle for the group dynamic of V3.

Ugh, unfortunately this discussion will be pretty short

My arse. But good on ya for continuing, Kaito is just that worth it.

It was going to be much shorter, but as I went on I decided to post more and more of my thought. By the time I was finished it was almost 2AM!

I can relate, actually...

Kaito and Kokichi ultimately have a lot in common despite their clear differences. For one, they are both shown to be empathetic and caring people and are willing to help others improve themselves.

i dunno. while this is definitely true of kaito (to the point of being his defining characteristic, even), it's only true of kokichi if you're willing to both ignore his harmful and self-serving actions and put in a lot of work to give him a very sympathetic character reading. i think your impulse to look for places of similarity and difference between kaito and kokichi is the right one, because theirs is one of the best articulated relationships in v3, and you've hit a few points i agree with (e.g., faith vs. logic makes a lot of sense) but i don't know that i'm sold that kokichi is caring (he sacrifices gonta pretty cravenly), empathetic (he must know the trauma he causes but he does it anyway), or especially concerned in elevating the people around him, at least not in the way kaito is.

but that's a kokichi thing more than a kaito thing, i guess. and i'm not trying to nitpick you, i promise; like i said, i like your approach here.

You're absolutely right that Kaito is a far more caring and sympathetic character than Kokichi is. Kokichi is still really selfish and places his life before others, but I'm just saying that there are glimpses where he does show instances of him caring for the other students.

Even though he can be cruel, Kokichi is still able to care for others. When he sees characters die, he mourns. When he sees them in pain, he doesn't enjoy it. As over the top as it is portrayed, I feel that Kokichi's reactions to the victims shouldn't be taken at face value. In Chapter 1, Kokichi cries over the deaths of Rantaro and Kaede. In Chapter 2, Kokichi demands for the rest of the students to apologize to Ryoma for allowing the killing game to start again. In Chapter 4, he is shown to be deeply shook by Miu's death even though he played a part.

I also think it's important to note how Kokichi reacts to the body discoveries. It's either:

Extremely loud and distressed(coupled with his crocodile tear sprites)

Or very quiet and subtle, almost depressed.

He normally tends to react in the former way since the other characters won't believe him either way. It gives him the opportunity to then emphasize his villain facade and say "it's a lie!"

His ability to care for others also extends out to the killers as well, specifically Kaede and Gonta.

In Chapter 1, Kokichi breaks his facade for a brief moment and tells her that she's "not boring" which is a huge compliment from him.

And of course there is Chapter 4 where his reaction to Gonta's final moments is the most evident of his empathy towards others because of how much seeing him be killed hurt him in the inside since he hated murder above all else.

While Kokichi doesn't have any more instances of helping people improve, and while his views on the rest of the student's lives are lesser than his, I feel that he can be empathetic at times.

I don't think Kokichi being empathetic and a self-serving coward who places little to no trust in other people are necessarily mutually exclusive.

He's absolutely sincere about wanting to stop the killing game and saving the lives of people he genuinely considers to be friends, and it's undeniable that a number of the things he does are for the benefit of another, either an individual or the group as a whole. His words to Himiko and Kaito, while lacking any kind of tact, are ultimately for the purpose of getting them to confront their problems, and his attempts to "steal" Shuichi from Kaito is at least partly his way of preventing Shuichi, the most important person there in regards to solving mysteries, from falling in line with the same brand of naivety that Kaito has "infected" the others with.

It's also true that he's a total pussy, so terrified of dying for much of the game that he'll even betray his own morals and set someone else up to die if it means saving his own skin. He does want to save his friends, but he ultimately places his life on a higher pedestal, nor can he bring himself to trust them nearly as much as he would like to. He's also relentless in his goals, sacrificing two people to both keep himself alive and ensure his ultimate plan goes off without a hitch. His chronic lying habits, either done out of habit or with a goal in mind, also ends up causing way more harm than good. He's also generally a bit of a dick.

Anyone who condemns him as an evil monster shows a critical lack of understanding of Kokichi's character, but also those who sweep his many negative qualities under the rug or try to portray him as an innocent dindu nuffin are as guilty imo.

I don't think Kokichi being empathetic and a self-serving coward who places little to no trust in other people are necessarily mutually exclusive.

i kinda do believe these are mutually exclusive things, insofar as i believe any sort of functional empathy would have prevented half the heinous shit he does to these people. like it's all well and good to notionally feel kind of bad for getting gonta swarmed by insects, impaled and burned alive, but then also don't do it? like if you're actually empathetic (and if you actually hate the killing game so very much and prize the people around you in whatever warped way), you look at this plan you've concocted that's absolutely drenched in misery and splattered with the blood of at least two people (eight if it goes wrong) and you think, oh, maybe another way around this.

i don't believe i'm showing 'a critical lack of understanding of the character' as you say, because i get what the writing was driving for, i just think it wildly, wildly misses the mark. they spend so much time building up what an utter piece of shit kokichi is and how carelessly and arrogantly he uses the lives of these people as pawns in his schemes that by the time i'm asked to consider whether his motives are more complicated than they first appear, i either don't care or don't buy it. because like, you're super hot on stopping the killing game? you got miu killed, you got gonta killed, you got kaito killed, you got yourself killed, you almost got maki killed, your dumb 'hide in the exisal with a script' plan could have gotten everyone killed if it went badly. forget wanting the killing game to stop; you're pretty much keeping it in business singlehandedly. at some point, the actions outweigh the intentions, and i'm not even sure i buy the intentions.

and then yeah, even the little shit like him giving whatever kindly wisdom he gives to himiko (which i don't recall because it's a long game but i'm sure you're right) or so benevolently keeping shuichi out of kaito's clutches for a single case, i just read as more of his narcissism and need to influence other people. like thanks for the advice, dr. oma, but sort your own shit out with a therapist before you start handing out the platitudes (and in any case, i don't think i don't think it's nearly enough to counter the intensely unempathetic/borderline sociopathic shit he pulls, e.g. i don't think telling kaito some home truths make you an empathetic person when you also strongarm him into killing you and himself by using his girlfriend as emotional blackmail).

anyway that is my contribution to this kokichi oma character discussion wait what oh

tl;dr: the atrocities kokichi commits are hardcore enough to invalidate the positive qualities i'm asked to believe he has, because i think a person who was empathetic in any kind of meaningful way would never hit the low points he did.

okay so i wrote up like a thousand words and im not even halfway done before it occurred to me that it's still kaito's week, i have no reason to go to all this effort until whenever it's kokichi's turn. meanwhile it's 5 in the morning and im half-dead, clearly i have mastered the art of making good and sensible life choices

yeah sometimes when i'm balls deep into writing one of these novel length tomes about fuckin, idk, kyoko's... hair, i just hit get with these real waves of nihilism, like what the fuck am i doing, does life even mean anything. so i understand your sentiment here.

you got kaito killed

I hate Kokichi too, but this is a really common misconception. He didn't get Kaito killed--he was dying anyway

kaito has a particular case of Mysterious Space Disease that acts when it's convenient for the plot. my point here is that, unless kokichi is a profoundly gifted psychic, he's not sitting there enacting his plan thinking 'well he'll breathe his last, moments before monokuma executes him, so it's fine.' as far as kokichi is concerned, he's getting kaito executed, and there's a real difference in gruesomeness between dying peacefully of natural causes versus getting executed, as kokichi will know from the last dude he got executed.

Fair point, but Kokichi did pick someone who was dying anyway because he knew that would incentivize Kaito to cooperate

Kaito did say he thought the plan was awesome too. I'm sure Maki bring the blackened was a factor but he was did decide to do it on his own (moreso than Gonta). And I believe him

But none of the events would have been set in motion had it not been for Kokichi, and getting poisoned wouldn't do the job.

Plus, Kaito may have made the choice, but it doesn't mean Kokichi isn't responsible either, to say nothing of crafting an entire plan that rests entirely on Monokuma's cooperation and essentially forcing Kaito into a situation where he would likely undergo an incredibly painful execution.

Gonta decided to do the plan on his own. So did Teruteru in DR 2. That doesn't mean the person who set it in motion isn't responsible though

Most importantly, we're short Miu because of this mistake of writing

I do hate Kokichi, I guess I just don't hold what he did to Kaito against him as much as what he did to Gonta and Miu. One way or another, Kaito was dead. And yeah Kaito could've had an incredibly painful end, but he did give Kaito a chance to escape

I do like the idea of an alternate Ch5 though where there is no body in the press and both Kaito and Kokichi are in the exisal. With that scenario, plus removing Kokichi's involvement with Ch4, it makes his character so much easier to swallow I'd still think he's a petulant little shit but I wouldn't vehemently hate everything about him

continue this thread

i mean regardless of all this, kokichi shouldn't have to pick the most expendable person to die, because his plan should involve no one dying, because he hates the killing game and wants it to stop. this is my overarching point. if you hate the killing game so much, don't create this dumb convoluted plan that results in a crucible of sorrow and rage that's guaranteed to end in a death.

In this specific case his plan might've been a response to the situation, in which he and Kaito are already poisoned and there's only one antidote so death would be involved anyways. I think it'd be pretty difficult to foresee the exact situation that made it possible, so I don't think he intended for that outcome. (Of course, the same can't be said with Gonta and Miu so your point stands)

Yeah, this is something I'm definitely bringing up in Kokichi's week. Kokichi is pretty standard and fine as a character in the first half of the game, but good lord does the second half go way off the deep end.

I wouldn't mind what they do with Kokichi if they only asked us to see him as what he was, and please stop using "he was a liar, so we don't know what he's thinking all the time" as an excuse for some of the shittier writing choices.

yeah, that's kinda it for me man. i can handle him being a little chode, because he's the villain and it's his job, but i'm asked to afford him a lot of depth and sympathy that's at best unearned and at worst totally undermined by some of the choices they make with the character.

i can even take 'he's a liar' at face value because yeah, it makes him a total rorshach test but whatever, it's something, but i feel like discussions about kokichi often bend in the direction of 'all the bad shit he was doing, he was secretly very conflicted about, and all the good shit he did (citation needed), that was on the up and up.' when to me, if you have to come down in one direction or the other, the opposite seems more likely to be true.

Yeah. I like what they did with Nagito. You can see where he's coming from when you learn everyone (himself included) is ultimate despair. It felt super psycho, but then makes case 5 feel much more like he was partially motivated by punishing himself for doing something that goes so far against his beliefs. It makes sense that he'd kill off a group of what was essentially terrorists and his "worship me and call me ultimate hope" lines made sense. It fits together when you see how the very existence of something like created talent sends his world view crashing into the ground.

They never ask you to see him as a great guy because he was still directly responsible for four deaths of the students and endangered even more, but we still get where he's coming from and it even creates an interesting moral dilemma (until Dr 3 makes that obsolete of course, but that's a different talk for a different day...)

With Kokichi, I found it absolutely ridiculous when the last case shows he hid the messages and there was some bigger reason, and any kind of implication that he in some way cares is just completely unreasonable to me.

DR1-2 with Mondo feeling horrified and awful about what he did can only make sense because the murder wasn't intentional or premeditated. It goes out the window if you were to say he intentionally caused Chihiro to die and we're supposed to accept he felt bad about it. It doesn't work unless there isn't intent, and he is at fault for not controlling his emotions, so he's not a perfect guy, but it's not as if he went in with intent of killing Chihiro. I feel like that's the thing that really misses the mark with the conflict surrounding Gonta. It's not like Kaito was really off the mark to think hey, it was Kokichi, and the game acts like it's this deep clash when Kokichi was directly involved in the crime. No shit Kaito is gunning for him.

I didn't bring it up in my Kaito discussion post, but you could also make the case that Kokichi had Gonta fashion a noose around Miu's neck and hand him one end of the toilet paper, then lynch her by jumping off the building and using the post thingy as a counterweight with Miu on one end and Kokichi on the other. If he did that, it'd be possible for Kokichi to commit the murder even with the paralysis feature in his avatar. After that, Gonta and Kokichi can retrieve the body by pulling the toilet paper up, climbing down, and then playing out the remainder of the crime the same way.

yeah, i had my frustrations with the way dr2 portrayed nagito, some of which mirror my issues with kokichi -- he was given outsized prominence in the narrative so you were forced to reckon with his significance; he was impossibly intelligent and machiavellian so you were asked to be in awe; he spoke in thematic buzzwords and pseudo-deep philosophy that didn't really make much sense -- but for all those flaws, i never felt like i was asked to regard nagito as a good or noble person. i was supposed to think he was a cool anti-hero, for sure, but not that he was justified in his methods or that he was secretly doing the right thing all along, even when he went rogue and tried to kill the remnants. v3 does ask you to do that with kokichi, and it's just a bridge too far imo.

Man, I'm just a bleeding heart, then. He did a lot of crappy stuff, but I still want to believe he has positive qualities. It's weird. Like, with Nagito, I definitely don't like him. But I don't hate him, either. He's just really annoying with his way of thinking. And yet I still like Kokichi.

I mean Kokichi's bullying of Keebo definitely annoyed me, but he was still really entertaining, so I couldn't bring myself to hate him. It wasn't until chapter 4 that I really came to dislike him because of his role in the murder there. I didn't even believe that he was telling the truth with his last words.

However, after reading what others had to say shortly after I finished the game, I began to reconsider. I think part of it has to do with how it's generally not a good idea to just judge things at face value, so I felt like I needed to extend that courtesy to Kokichi.

...Bah, what am I trying to say? I guess I wanna justify my stupid naivety and believe that there's good in Kokichi. Though I'm almost certain that if I knew someone like him in real life, I would NOT like them at all.

fucking BLESS my dude, you've expressed my frustrations down to a T.

I don't know about him being a coward, I'm no fan of him but Kokichi does hold his composure when his life is threatened rather than breaking down or begging for mercy. I'd be more inclined to say he thinks that the things he's figured out about the killing game and his plan to end it are enough to warrant sacrificing Gonta to preserve himself so he can try to go for the big victory and "end the killing game". Does that make him better? Given that his plan didn't work (and didn't seem likely TO work even if it had gone according to plan imo) I'd say no, but your mileage may vary.

I don't trust my memory that much so if I remember parts incorrectly I apologize.

Kokichi, who lived his life being cautious and suspecting of others, is beyond baffled by the fact that Kaito's belief in Maki ended up working in the end

Beyond baffled? I might not remember the whole game so enlighten me, which part suggests he was?

While Kaito's belief in Maki made her talk and suggested possibility of Ryoma alive at nighttime, the case was ultimately solved when Maki suggested they figure out where the crime scene is, which goes to them figuring out how the culprit moved the body, the person who could have done such an amount of tasks, and Shuichi wrapping the case with damning evidence. All someone has to do is suggest they figure out the crime scene. Unless you meant Kaito was correct that Maki isn't the culprit?

not only has Kaito begun to rethink his stance on putting belief on others, but he has also repositioned his stance on using logic. The biggest example of this is when Kaito puts his bias aside and goes and trusts Kokichi with the electro hammers.

I don't think so. The way I saw it, he accepts the hammers because his time was running out to fulfill his dream of going to space because of his illness. Doesn't help he says before: I'm running out of time. Desperate people are more likely to accept things that are convenient to them.

Kaito is a really likable character

So with all his hypocrisy and mindset based on faith instead of logic you consider him a likable character? I don't mind the second much (still bothers me) as the first because if all of them are reverse it would be boring.

Beyond baffled? I might not remember the whole game so enlighten me, which part suggests he was?

Kokichi's reaction to Kaito saying that Maki isn't the culprit and his reason why reveals that he's at a loss of words like the other students.

Kaito: "But Maki isn't the culprit, either!"

Kokichi: "Huh? Really? You're saying neither of you are the culprit? Then what would be the whole point of this deba-"

Kaito: "Who cares about that?! All I know is that neither me or Maki are the culprit! It's just a hunch I got!"

Kokichi: "A...a hunch? Are you being serious? You do know all our lives are on the line here, right? And you're betting our lives on just a hunch?!"

Kaito: "Hmph... You don't get it. This isn't just any hunch... This is an official hunch from Kaito Momota, Luminary of the Stars!"

Kokichi: "You're totally not serious! You can't be that stupid, right?"

I guess we never saw Kokichi's reaction to the fact that Kirumi is the culprit while Maki was innocent. However, given Kokichi's earlier speech about the mindset of a liar and how you need to expose them psychologically, I am certain that Kokichi was most suspicious of Maki. So seeing Kaito clear her name on "just a hunch" is baffling to him because Kokichi lives his entire life being wary and suspicious of other people and how even your friends can betray you.

I don't think so. The way I saw it, he accepts the hammers because his time was running out to fulfill his dream of going to space because of his illness. Doesn't help he says before: I'm running out of time. Desperate people are more likely to accept things that are convenient to them.

While his illness could play a part in Kaito's decision, I still say that it speaks a lot about Kaito to go and follow Kokichi's plan. Throughout the chapter 4 trial, Kaito was constantly spouting how suspecting Gonta is part of Kokichi's trap, right up until the climax reasoning segment. Kaito is incredibly stubborn about who he trusts and who he doesn't. Kokichi is someone who Kaito doesn't trust and his hostility of him only increases throughout the game. So him being able to trust Kokichi with his plan can't be chalked up to only Kaito's illness.

So with all his hypocrisy and mindset based on faith instead of logic you consider him a likable character? I don't mind the second much (still bothers me) as the first because if all of them are reverse it would be boring.

Kaito being a hypocrite and having a flawed philosophy is compelling because he gets called out on his behavior, which makes him reflect on his ideals and help improve himself. It would have been annoying if Kaito was never called out and only received praise, but that's not the case as seen in Chapter 4.

Of course I there are other traits that I like about Kaito. I like how supportive he is to other characters. I like his charisma and role as a leader. I like his values in communication and teamwork.

The way I understood it, you were saying Kokichi was baffled that Kaito's belief in Maki ended up being helpful to solve the case, not when Kaito is deeming Maki as innocent just because of his hunch (guess I should work on my emphasis?). And as I said before, Kaito got her to talk but it started to become solved when Maki suggested they figure out the crime scene, which anyone could do.

Hmm...I can accept the possibility. If he didn't think at least a bit logically then he probably wouldn't have accepted those items regardless of Kokichi's explanation. But I would say his illness is a major driving force.

The escape was worth the try (certainly even more so his time was running out ) and they were going to fight Monokuma on that day anyway, so do or die. Kokichi's explanation about the items also helped. And as I stand, he accepted because it was so convenient to him. Still, I also hold the possibility that he only did it because of his illness. But yeah, different strokes for different people I guess.

Yeah...enlighten me again. I felt that the game didn't really fix and call out Kaito's behavior in the end, especially his hypocrisy. While chapter 4 did make his philosophy backfire, it didn't even make it for Kaito to apologize to Shichi and instead Shuichi was the one to apologize. But I understand, changing one's mindset to logical is probably easy in this scenario, but you probably can't make much scenes that call out hypocritical behavior because that would be embarassing for one of the main characters, and that if you call out some of his hypocritical moments it would be petty.

I do like his supportiveness but most of his behavior just didn't click me so there's that.

While chapter 4 did make his philosophy backfire, it didn't even make it for Kaito to apologize to Shichi and instead Shuichi was the one to apologize.

What about the speech before his execution where Kaito literally says "I need to apologise to Shuichi...I was jealous of you...Because you were always saving us, y'know?...You were just way too cool, and I got frustrated...So that's why I was so harsh on you. My bad?"

It's a long wait for the apology but it is Kaito apologising. Shuichi caves first and says sorry but that's not a indication of who's in the right or wrong, that's just a demonstration of which of these characters can swallow their pride easier.

Kaito served his purpose very well, as the dudebro that's friends with the protagonists that lives to the end, such as Kazuichi and (well, bad example but literally the only other dude is Togami) Hagakure (well besides dying, of course). Well, besides his death, but it was fine for what it is. I like his role in Chapter 4 as the friend you have to fight if you want everyone to survive.

YES. I've always wanted the "optimistic best bro" character to have a larger role in the story (Hagakure and Kazuichi were both interesting enough to serve one imo), and Kaito executes it very much. Hiro and Kazuichi are both symbols of the belief in faith and trust, and in a game about truth and lies making that character have a big role really made the game better.

idk, even as someone who likes hagakure very much, i never thought of him as having much to say about faith and trust -- he was sort of a duplicitous scumbag at the best of times, and never especially close to anyone else in the cast. he's ultimately maybe the most cowardly and self-serving person in the entire group? all said with love, obviously, and mostly just as an excuse to talk about dr1 because i love the characters and never get to discuss them in these threads.

I always interpreted his character as someone who was so helpless he had no choice but to put his faith and trust into other people. He's basically incapable of using logical deduction skills to figure things out, so everything he does has to come from intuition or trusting of other people's ideas. He never really ever puts up a fight, either, and has no conviction like say, Asahina and Kaito, who are competent enough to actually argue back. He's sort of incapable of telling lies too, because of how easily he folds. He's basically the total antithesis of someone like Kyoko, who places trust nearly entirely into logical deduction. The theme of faith v. logic that's so prominent in V3 is also present in the other games, but it's a lot more subtle in Danganronpa 1 since the character that plays that role takes much more of a backseat.

So it's more in his role as a character. Kaito and Hiro are wildly different people, but they basically play the same role to me. Kaito is kinda just Hagakure with balls honestly.

Now granted it's been a little while since I played the first game, so I could be served by another playthrough to see if I'm not just looking too deep into it.

intuition is definitely a component of hagakure's character; he's a clairvoyant after all. but it was mostly used for comedic effect since, despite being the ultimate clairvoyant, his intuition is actually pretty shitty -- in a psychic sense (his predictions are always wrong), in a comprehension sense (kyoko was not, in fact, a ghost), and in a judgment sense (probably shouldn't have brained sakura with that bottle). his one great victory of intuition is predicting himself and makoto knocking up asahina in an alternate universe.

beyond that, i don't know that i've assigned much meaning to hagakure as a character. i mostly just see him as a floater, comic relief, and evidence that the killing game is not a meritocracy because if he can survive, anyone can.

The more heterosexual version of Leon

They're all gay

They're all bottoms*

Except for Serena

Kaito Momota is my favorite haracter from Ganronpa!

More like Hairacter cuz that do is out of this world

I love that his catchphrase seems to be based at least partly on what he says during the interview snippet we get in Chapter 6. Twist that knife, DR team!

Isn't that the case with basically all the characters on the interviews? I can't help but think that either A. the interviews were faked and deliberately made to hurt the survivors or B. the participants' personalities were made specifically as to contradict the interviews just so they can fuck with 'em at the final trial.

Yeah, Kaito's just hit me the hardest, I guess...

I mean, yes, we're certainly supposed to wonder whether the interviews that took place were "real" or not — Shuichi brings it up during the epilogue. (And I'm pretty sure there's a discrepancy between the characters' "memories" of the prologue scenes and what actually happens the first time we play through them. I haven't gone back to check myself, but it's been discussed frequently here.) Even so, I lean more towards the interviews being real because I think it's a better thematic gut punch (and admittedly, my mind starts reeling too much when I think about when the memory wiping/memory planting actually first started, hah).

haracter

In terms of character dynamics, I think Kaito is great. I think he's easily the best of the Shuichi/Maki/Kaito trio. I don't think Kaito has the best individual characteristics since he's a pretty crappy shonen stereotype and a number of the things I'll bring up later stem directly from this fact and how wooden it can make his character feel at times. Having said that, I absolutely love how much the game goes out of its way to try and make more and more of the dynamics Kaito has stand out and differ.

He admires Ryoma but is also disappointed in him. He treats Shuichi like a younger brother but is also grappling with some envy toward him but doesn't want that to destroy their friendship, and he also tries to take a leader role for him both to try and feel like he can do something in return, to take some of the pressure off Shuichi since now it's Kaito's responsibility (particularly in case 2), and probably to feel like he can have something to not feel inferior to Shuichi. His relationship with Maki, whether you want to take it romantically or not, is still largely him trying to get her to come out of her shell more. He's buddy buddy with Himiko, and so on. It feels like the game really tried to have him connect with as many people as possible and at least make their interactions as unique as possible.

I think it does backfire just a bit because I suspected Kaito would go on to become a tragic chapter 5 killer solely because the game was having him interact with so many people as early as like chapter 2 or so. I don't blame Kaito for that--it's more that the other characters just feel so distant or cliquish with their dynamics rather than Kaito himself being poorly handled in this respect. He stands out. I do think Kaito was actually an improvement over Chiaki in that DR2-5 felt kind of frontloaded with how much it tries to milk the tragedy of having to convict the innocent Chiaki. Hajime I can understand, but like…almost everyone else there had maybe one or two conversations with her big sendoff, and some of the reactions of the characters felt more appropriate for other characters that died earlier in the game than Chiaki.

Part of what makes the games feel most powerful is when a character's death feels like it actually affects the group in some way, because it takes more than just the dying character to create a powerful and meaningful reaction—you can also rely on the characters reacting to having to lose this person. Sonia standing up for Gundham during the class trial and breaking down in tears as Gundham urges her not to beg for his life is part of what makes it extra harsh, and it's not just Gundham or Nekomaru dying that makes the case compelling for me. I think Kaito was great because it actually feels like the characters have something to lose by losing him instead of just really stock reactions anyone would have to someone dying. I may have some major issues with the case itself, but I think in terms of the conclusion, Kaito's resolution was pretty solid, even down to just having him still die but not from Monokuma's execution. It feels very anticlimactic, but in a good way.

I think his dynamics are very good, but a large part of what holds Kaito back for me are his character traits. I mentioned that he feels very much like a shonen cliché, and I appreciate the game's efforts to try and have him react uniquely to different characters, but I still just find his personality kind of boring and annoying. I know some people find it annoying when people say that Kaito is a sexist homophobe, but he does feel unnatural when he pushes out old shonen clichés like girls do this, man up and stay determined about everything and never give up because I have to be pumped about everything. He hits Shuichi for dramatic effect and it's the most anime thing to do to help someone, but I feel it'd be more interesting and unique to change his personality a bit, and I do realize apparently he's portrayed a bit differently between the Japanese and the English versions.

My biggest gripe is how he acts toward Ryoma in chapter 2, and while he does point it out and feel awful asking himself if he went too far with Ryoma, I can't stand some of the stuff he says and his general attitude toward Ryoma being suicidal and depressed. I know that this is an anime visual novel, but again, he just feels really annoying when he's telling Ryoma he's just giving up and his general attitude of just being pumped just feels condescending and dickish and the game just sort of treats it as inspiring or when he just decides to punch someone mourning somebody's death and feeling in shock or a lack of confidence when it literally happened seconds ago. That's just being a stupid dick, and it feels like an anime soap opera more than anything meaningful. That's also sort of the case when he gives like his fourth big inspiring speech for everyone in the game.

Even in case 2, it feels weird that he'd be the one to tell everyone to stop when Kirumi is outed and it feels really unnatural to have Kaito...stand up for someone who exploited a suicidal boy he looked up to and drowned him.

Now yes, case 4 happens and the same Kaito who just blindly trusted Maki who could have been the killer in case 2, says it's your own fault for trusting someone if they betray you in chapter 3 (makes…sense? I don't know why you feel that, game) now has that come crashing down and bite him in the ass come case 4 when he chooses to trust in Gonta but it backfires horribly when gonta actually is the killer. I'm glad they're aware of Kaito's issues and bring them to light, but it still feels a bit off. I guess it doesn't feel like much of a deconstruction of Kaito's worldview to me because everything about it feels incredibly manipulative. The entire situation exists solely to create contrast from the second case, but neither Kaito nor Kokichi make reasonable decisions or choices in either chapter for it to feel like it makes sense or feels like a meaningful exploration of their characters.

I think it's ridiculous for Kaito to decide to just trust in Maki despite barely knowing anything about her and especially because of how she had acted at that point in the game. Shuichi or Kaede I can understand him standing up for because they had proven to at least contribute to the group or help them out, so I can see him getting closer to them easily. But Maki had been much more aggressive to everyone, refused to cooperate with investigations, regularly threatened people, and was arguably as antagonistic if not moreso than Kokichi at that point in the game. It feels less like Kaito is just a trusting person with fairly good but not perfect judgment who finally had his trust bite him in the ass at least and more like a very contrived and unnatural scenario exists to contrast with another very unnatural scenario.

Compare this to Asahina, who has quite a bit in common with Kaito and even has a similar clash in ideals regarding trust and faith in others against Byakuya much like Kaito does against Kokichi, (Also in chapter 4, also centered around trusting the muscular character of the group, also hinted at with the dynamic in chapter 2 of both games, and also leading off chapter 4 with the buff character planning on fighting Monokuma and Kaito/Hina punching Kokichi/Byakuya.)

Asahina trusts in Sakura pretty early on and even takes a risk in spending the first night of the killing game with Sakura. However, that kind of risk holds more meaning when you learn that Sakura was the traitor later on and was ordered to kill. Sakura was much more openly cooperative with the group, (for example, she's one of the few to explicitly tell you what she saw in her motive video), she regularly tries to dispel arguments and keep the group together, she makes sure the more troublesome class members don't cause problems, she offers to support people like training with Chihiro and Makoto, she offers protection to people and escorts them if they feel unsafe going around the school, and she has enough in common with Hina for them to hit it off well since they're both athletic women that are also quite insecure about their femininity.

Her faith in Sakura makes much more sense, and her background in playing several team sports helps underscore her attitude toward the killing game--she will at least respect suggestions that help the group even if she doesn't like that person, and she's able to set aside her feelings for people if they're striving toward a similar goal much like her time in her six sports. It's why Hina openly dislikes Celeste but still takes the night time rule as seriously as their official rules or why she tries to help Toko in ch. 2 despite her blatant dislike for her. Hina is trusting, but there's at least a reason behind who she chooses to trust and she will at least hear out a good idea without having to like or trust someone.

Contrast this with Kaito and Maki. Maki at that point in the game was one of the people to openly oppose Kaede, and while she does offer her help in the group that tries to fight back in chapter 1, she also makes no real effort to help anyone or cooperate, especially come chapter 2 where all she does is block the door to her lab, refuse to investigate, and just hinder everyone with her lying.

I understand Kaito's trusting philosophy, but him reaching out to someone like Maki feels a lot less natural when she makes no effort to show that she's deserving of trust. In the case of Makoto and Kyoko, Kyoko would regularly act on the group's interest like securing Alter Ego and preventing Ishimaru/Hifumi from risking AE being exposed, and even defended or supported Makoto numerous times. She's not entirely deserving of trust and makes some poor decisions as well, which is why they wait until chapter 5 before you're asked to decide if you're going to make a leap of faith for her, and even then Makoto doesn't just quickly jump at this choice. He's very conflicted as to whether he should trust in her and that's after an entire trial of questioning her motivations.

Maybe Kaito had more conflict, but because we're not playing as him, we don't get to see what's going through his head, so it just comes off as really stupid of him. I don't feel it's any more natural when it's contrasted come chapter 4. There are also problems I have with Kokichi, but I'll save that for his week.

It also doesn't help that, while Kaito was clearly wrong and Gonta was indeed the killer, it's not unreasonable to think that Kokichi was the culprit instead and that Gonta was in some way manipulated—it took a contrived scenario and the flashback light to get Gonta to kill, and Kokichi still was directly involved in the case. Not to say it's not in Gonta's nature because his personality flaws make it very much possible and it is hinted at in case 2, but I feel it'd be more engaging if the scenarios had been less manipulative with the anime cliches. (Fun fact, while I thought it was super obvious that Gonta was the killer, I did think of a way where Kokichi could be the killer while first playing even with the paralysis avatar feature in mind which kind of made the whole thing about Kaito's deal all the more hilarious)

How much more interesting would it have been if instead of just giving stock shonen determination talk to Ryoma, he actually relates more to him than ever because he sees Ryoma grappling with depression/suicide and it makes him feel strongly since he has to deal with his own illness? Wouldn't some conversations between the two be a much more engaging way to hint at his illness than just showing him cough up blood at the end in a scene with Kaito by himself, that way you could just suddenly have him cough up blood at the end of case 3 and see what they were hinting at with the conversations in case 2? Kaito downplaying his own illness makes sense, but I think it'd be smarter to have him relate to Ryoma more instead of just being a supposedly inspiring dick.

That would also give Kaito a much stronger motivation during the class trial, and if the case was set up to look like Ryoma killed himself, it'd be a strong moment for Kaito to insist it was murder because he knows Ryoma wouldn't do something like that.

Stuff like that, him just dramatically hitting Shuichi to snap him out of his mourning someone who literally just died in front of his eyes and feeling insecure and how he tells Maki weapons aren't things for girls I do think are annoying, but mostly because they just sound like they're just spouting off a bunch of shonen clichés. Shonen has traditionally been very boy centric, and that has the effect of making Kaito feel incredibly unnatural around people. I get he's trying to help her, but just being a dick to everyone doesn't suddenly make a compelling character just because they're incredibly determined or inspiring about everything, and I don't feel the "kaito is a sexist homophobe" talk comes from an unreasonable place. He's very much a shonen protag and most women get a bum deal in shonen works.

It doesn't help that he suffers from plotdevice-itis, and I understand that it was intentional to have a cliché setup because it all falls apart by the last chapter when the whole killing game didn't go as intended, but that's five chapters of setup thrown from beneath you that ultimately goes nowhere for this one thing, and I don't think the sacrifice is worth the payoff. Kaito as an individual feels more like a collection of manipulative tropes rather than a fully defined character and that's largely because the game just sees the characters as game pieces to get its themes across before seeing them as characters and letting the theme be shown through their struggles.

I still appreciate that he forms connections with various people and has different dynamics come into play with the different cast members, but I feel they could have done better with his general personality and what his traits as an individual are.

As for case 5, I think Kaito himself is fine, and most of the problems I have are with the case itself or other characters. I do think they shouldn't have pushed the narrative that Kaito is the victim so hard, and also think it'd be better if the exisal talk was 50/50 Kaito/Kokichi instead of 5/95 Kaito/Kokichi. It's also incredibly convenient that:

1) we even have a voice device they never brought up until the trial.

2) Monokuma is so politely allowing them to carry out their plan. I know it's because of case 6 and wanting to just be entertaining, but it still tremendously trivializes the villain and renders the thrill of trying to outsmart the mastermind by ruining the game pointless by learning a chapter later they were just playing along and making no effort to stop it and even if they were, they could have but didn't.

3) Kaito somehow can perfectly mimic Kokichi's mannerisms, despite having known him for only a week or two. Mukuro Ikusaba knew Junko pretty much her whole life and even she was noticed when she couldn't convincingly play the part.

4) Kaito conveniently never coughs or has his illness act up in any way during the trial at all while in the exisal. I know people have brought up that he might be able to turn off the voice module, but it just feels like a phoned in detail to begin with if they never brought it up, and I feel there were more creative ways to set this scenario up that don't involve EMPs and a giant robot suit that Monokuma just conveniently allows to participate in the class trial because now there's no point in having a scenario of ruining the killing game if the mastermind is in no way making any effort to dodge the trap.

Kaito is sort of middle of the road to me, and I do feel his character is unnatural as an individual, but I do have to credit him for how he contributes to the cast and how well they handled the group dynamics with him.

Note: The following is relevant not to just Kaito, but the next few weeks of discussion too. It'd be easier to have something to just link to, so here we are.

Kaito is a great character showing an example between three important things in looking at fictional characters: character traits, character dynamics, and a character arc.

Character traits are the basic things about someone and their personality that you can look at only observing that character alone. Gundam is socially awkward and uses his chunni persona to distance himself from people, but he values determination and hard work. Ibuki is bubbly, emotionally intelligent, and cheerful. Simple enough. Character dynamics are what comes about when two or more characters come together. Do they just have really stock reactions that go how you expect? For example, you could have Ryoma and Nagito interact differently because neither of them place value in their lives. You can compare and contrast the two in how they interact since Ryoma is still pretty well adjusted and confident, but lacks connections while Nagito's is blended with a bit of a defeatist attitude and toxic arrogance in his beliefs.

A character arc is what happens when a character undergoes something or changes their mindset, traits, or beliefs. Tenko starts off being obsessed with Himiko and wants to be acknowledged as a friend, but she later drops that in chapter 3 and is acting more for her well-being and we see a change in her traits.

I bring this up because these are important distinctions. It helps to understand why some characters can be so popular despite not having much effect on the plot, living long, etc. Arcs aren't just useful for seeing a progression of a character, but it goes hand in hand with traits and dynamics. To prevent the interactions from getting stale once you've exhausted a number of ideas, a character might grow and change different traits about themselves, thus they react differently around different people.

There's no magic formula to making a good character, but it's important to understand the three, particularly in an ensemble series like Danganronpa which has to juggle a large cast size who mostly dies quickly. In a large cast where you can't really give everyone a fully fleshed out arc, it places more importance on character dynamics and what they contribute to the cast rather than a character going through some complex change in mindset. Because the characters either don't live as long or the simple fact that they're sharing screentime with a bunch of other characters, a full blown character arc isn't always necessary. These points are also incredibly important for why I like or dislike Kaede, Shuichi, and Kokichi, all of whom will be coming up next in the discussion weeks.

...Ok, no joke, the first time I met Kaito in the game I thought "you attitude is too similar to Kaede's. We haven't got room for two positive characters here. You're going to die soon bub. What's that? You're the Ultimate Astronaut but you haven't been to space yet? Oh, you're definitely going to die first.!"

Never before have I been so glad to be so wrong.

I like this guy. I like his optimism, his empathy, his brashness, his machismo! I even like his visual design, which is something I haven't given enough credit with the previous character discussions. But yeah, I like how he's only wearing half of his jacket and I love the cosmos pattern on the inside. V3 does a good job at subtlety tying in the talents to everyday wear, like Kaede's skirt and hairpins or Gonta's bug cage.

And I also like how they gave him extremely pronounced flaws too. That machismo causes him to hide his sickness from the others whilst he is actively encouraging everyone else to share their burdens, lean on others for support. I like how his trust-everyone philosophy can backfire massively when put in the wrong person and how Kaito doesn't handle it as well in chapter 4, as he said he would do back in chapter 2. These are both really great demonstrations of how easy it is to spout a creed, but it's a completely other challenge to live by it. And the way he acts as Kokichi's foil is superb. Neither one is entirely in the right or the wrong. They both show the merits of their school of thought whilst also showing their shortcomings.

So let's go into more detail about those positives. Trust is a big thing for Kaito and he's willing to put his trust in a lot of people. But it's not from a place of naivety like Gonta is. Despite being overly aggressive, Kaito doesn't really seem like he actually wants any enemies, even trying to save the guy that's been a thorn in his side for the entire game. He just has this general air of camaraderie about him, a reflection of the teamwork and faith needed if he is ever going to be an astronaut like he wants to. He has to be able to put his faith in the hands of complete strangers, because once he reaches that environment, he's going to be actively putting his life in the hands of hundreds of people, where a single screw up can cost him his life. It's one of the requirements of being an astronaut that is demonstrated really well with his character (more on that later.)

His methods for tackling adversary is a joy to watch. He never really bothers with thinking about the "how" simply because for him it doesn't matter. If it has to be done, then it shall be done, no matter how hard it is. Honestly, I'm surprised with this being such a dominant part of his portrayal, that they didn't just go for an outright Star Wars reference (Do, or do not. There is no try.)

And then we get to the more...controversial parts of his portrayal. The Chapter 2 trial is the first instance of Kaito's philosophy. He trusts everyone, enough so to refuse accusing somebody just because the evidence is stacked against them. This attitude, as expected, is subjected to a fair bit of ridicule by the group, calling him an idiot and reminding him that in a killing game any of them can be the blackened, even the people you call your friends.

All of this is true, but I like how Kaito's mindset attempts to turn the scenario on its head. Not being able to put your entire trust in someone doesn't mean you can't give them the benefit of the doubt. If anyone can be the blackened, then that means they're all in the same boat, innocent until proven guilty (and no, a lack of alibis was not proof that anyone was guilty.) Kind of weird that this cast had several people determined to end the killing game, such as Angie and Kokichi, yet they're content to play entirely into its distrust mindset, meanwhile Kaito actively rejects it. It's not a philosophy to everyone's taste and Kaito does use it selectively (I don't see him making this same speech for Kirumi's sake,) but overall, it is a refreshing outlook in this franchise, especially from someone not named Makoto.

That bring us nicely back to Kaito's hypocrisy. I already covered the way he tried to hide his health issues whilst encouraging everyone else to share their burdens and support each other. But then there's other, subtler things.

Kaito seems to disapprove of how everyone is content to let Shuichi shoulder so much responsibility on his own. Yet Kaito is the first one to suggest they leave it all up to Shuichi to figure out where the mysterious objects go. Might've just been for the sake of keeping Shuichi busy during a time where he would wallow in despair, but it just stands out against what Kaito tries to do for him throughout the rest of the chapter.

Of course, we then hear from his own mouth that his disapproval stemmed partly from jealousy. That machismo pride now causes problems as Kaito realises that more people are relying on Shuichi than him. Chapter 4 is great for this, as Kaito's tone gradually starts to show how betrayed he feels that Shuichi isn't siding with him. This trial in general and its fallout is one of the more negative depictions of Kaito. He seems to blame Shuichi for unveiling Gonta as the blackened even though it was the right call and had he not done it, everyone else would've died and Gonta, now no longer aware of why he did what he did, would've been left alone in a wasteland. Kaito's attitude is definitely in the wrong here but I can see where it's coming from. Remember the advice he gave to Shuichi and Maki? "Find your enemy, then deal with it." Well most of Kaito's enemies are out of his reach. Monokuma is untouchable. The Killing game is inescapable. His illness is unavoidable. And Kokichi, Kaito's first scapegoat at this juncture, managed to not only get the upper hand, but also reveal Kaito's failing health to the rest of the group he was trying to appear tough in front of.

Kaito feels like he has to lash out against something, reflective of how he reacts to the explanation of the Gopher Project; he just has to punch Kokichi even though it won't solve anything. Since every other target is out of reach, the only person Kaito can lash out against post chapter 4 is Shuichi, due to the jealousy Kaito feels for him. It isn't fair and it isn't sympathetic, but it is what Kaito has to do at that moment.

Now Chapter 5, I'll keep this brief. He works with Kokichi and initially it seems pretty weird. The plan goes against the core tenants of Kaito's principles. The guy who actively wanted to trust everyone is now deliberately leading them all astray. At first, you think he's goes along with it for Maki's sake, if he does nothing she becomes the blackened and has to die. But no, it turns out he just did it because he's running out of time. Inactivity is abhorrent to Kaito. He doesn't want his last few moments to be spent coughing up blood on a bed somewhere. He wants one more chance to help everyone, a chance to stick it to Monokuma and potentially end this killing game. He backs out at the last minute because he took Monokuma's warning to heart and wasn't prepared to let everyone else gamble their lives on Kokichi's hunch, but he doesn't shy away from what's about to happen. He encourages Monokuma to go forward with the execution. As much as I love how the executions failure gets under Monokuma's craw, I'm not sure if that was what Kaito actually wanted. I'm not sure if he ever wanted his body to succumb to his own weakness.

Last thing, his FTE's were a bit of an oddity for me. Theme wise, they certainly suited an astronaut, but they just didn't match the guy I was seeing before me. I can't imagine him being able to speak different languages even though I have no doubt that is a valued trait for an astronaut. Oh well. Cheers Luminary of the Stars, I'm glad my prediction was way off!

I want to start this character review with Ouma's words about Kaito, before chapter 4 trial, which says exacty how I feel about him.
I'm probaby one of the few people that will say that, given that Kaito is quite beloved by the fandom...But for me, Kaito is the worst v3 character and one of the worst characters of the franchise. If you thought Maki was constantly forced on you, with her backstory and choices for try make you sympathize with her, get that and make it double with a character that repeats the most cliché motivational speeches every time, always stole the spotlight and sometimes, managed to be more dumb than Hagakure and for make it worse, have a lot of favoritism. Is just awful how Kaito is always forced on Shuichi's face every time and is the one who always lift people's spirits, repeating the same cheesy stuff over and over again like "I will believe in people" (which is a very smart idea to do in a kiling game /s), "No matter what happened, I want to live to the fullest" etc., those typical speeches you see in shounen protagonists who constantly talk about nakama power and catchphrases for make them look cool. There times that I thought Kaito was the protagonist, instead of Shuichi, because the game constantly forced him onto you every time that indeed made Shuichi looks like a sidekick and him and Maki as the main characters since there are a lot of focus on them and the feelings that Maki grows for him. If that wasn't already bad, another aspects of Kaito's personality doesn't help either. He is stubborn, obnoxious, act before thinking (like when he punched both Ouma and Shuichi), always valorize emotions over logic (a aspect of this is how he believe in people blindly, without any reason, just because he wants to). Kaito become the worst v3 character for me after what he did in chapter 4, when he become really annoying and his whole behaviors in chapter 5. He keep saying how much he would help Shuichi, will always side and help him carry the burden of finding the truth but become a hypocrite when he decided to go against him, because Shuichi stated that Gonta might be the culprit, since that a lot of facts pointed him as the killer, making Kaito look like he will just help Shuichi when it benefits him. But stubborn as how he is, not only him almost indirectly killed everyone by trying to convince them that Gonta was innocent while using emotions with his blind trust on people, he also keep whinning about Shuichi trying to prove Gonta as the blackened (when he was right), bothering him and not trying to hear him for using logic to solve the case but after the trial, he started to act so childish towards Shuichi by ignoring and not talking with him, just because he did his job as a detective of finding the culprit and saving everyone from getting mass executed. For make it worse, the game basically forces Shuichi to be the one who should apologize to Kaito for doing the right thing, because he started to feel bad for reveal Gonta as the culprit, when he was actually right. Kaito doesn't get punished for his whole attitudes, just like Maki with everything she pulled during chapter 5 trial. They both are easily forgiven by everyone, because the game forces both of them to be right on what they did. This keeps going untill near the end of chapter 5 where he apologized and said he was jealous of how Shuichi actually helped everyone through the trials but his mistakes makes me hard to like him, exactly for the fact how the writting handled him before so a simple "sorry" isn't enough to simple fix it, given that, a lot of characters doesn't get developed since they give space for Kaito always steal the spotlight. And guess what happens in the end? Kaito doesn't get properly executed because of his disease that convenently killed him during that time for give him the "heroic like death" by not dying in the hands of the villain, pissing them off, even though there isn't a single explanation about his disease and I don't really think Tsumugi even planned that, given how much Monokuma reacted after the execution failed.

For me, the writers destroyed the character by how much explicit special treatment they gave to Kaito, which is one of my issues with the entire v3 writting for focus a lot in few characters and leave others in the shadows. Thanks to that, Kaito is now the worst v3 character for me.

Agreed!

Thank you for putting my thoughts into words, you've pretty much stated out my frustration towards this character. Because I have never, ever felt a fictional character so forced in my face for my entire gaming experience. And because of the way how the writers treated him in the game, it legit ruined my satisfactory and experience towards V3.

To add some more, the plot punishes whoever goes against his morals and beliefs. Take Shuichi from Ch.4 for instance; the plot literally punished Shuichi for hurting Kaito's feelings, simply because he exposed the truth that nobody wanted to acknowledge. Then, the plot forced him to apologize to Kaito right after. Tell me. Why should he apologize? Shuichi's really trying his best to preserve as many lives as possible, but then the writers had to make it also Shuichi's fault for ignoring Kaito's feeling... Then you also have Kokichi, who's been constantly reminding Kaito that blind trust is wrong in a killing game. He then got punched, all because he stated the truth that Kaito didn't want to believe. Seriously, this is torture, right?

Probably something minor, but I still find it unbearable and irksome. I can really see how the writers were so insistent in making him the "hero" in the game. If it's one thing Kaito's good at, it's bullshitting and stealing credits from Shuichi. Shuichi clearly had the brains, considering he solved most of the cases on his own, and what did Kaito do? Dubbing him as his sidekick, as if Shuichi's detective work was an accomplishment of being his sidekick. Whenever the cast praised him for his detective work, Kaito wouldn't miss a chance to butt in and hog all the credits, too. Here's a thing, if you want to get praised for something, why not work for it? Despite literally doing nothing in the game, he got praised anyway. I suppose in V3, doing nothing makes you the "hero". If the writers truly insist in making him the hero of this game, at least make him contribute something useful to the trial, rather than shouting "I leave this to my sidekick!" It got really annoying as he kept repeating it from Ch.2 onwards, and still contributed nothing until the very end.

My final thoughts; nothing I find interesting and likable about this character. I don't mind if the writers made him the generic shounen character as he is, but shoving favoritism down my throat while not being original is just plain torture and awful. Not only is he easily the worst V3 character for me, but the entire franchise, too.

Dude I think this is so spot on. I'm shit at writing, I could never describe why I disliked kaito so much, but you hit pretty much everything I was thinking right on the dot.

I feel like there are characters who are more useless in the trials. There are characters who have fewer interesting relationships. There are characters who are more annoying. I can't think of one who combines all these traits and then is given a fuck ton of screentime and is praised for all this by the rest of the cast.

I legitimately think kaito is a significant reason why v3 is my least favorite game. At many points I wished I could just delete his character. So much of the game is spent catering to his wishes and demands that I felt like I wasn't even playing the game anymore, I felt so disconnected to everything that was happening.

Not to refute, just kinda thinking here. I agree Kaito is definitely forced, and I completely understand why you'd dislike him. However, from the writers perspective, they probably made him so forced and favored because he is essentially what the whole game ends up being about: believing. You end up having to believe in how the characters really feel. You have to believe Shuichi's fictional feelings are worth fighting for enough to just not play the game. Kaito consistently encapsulates that throughout his entire stay. Is it good writing? Not necessarily. But. I can understand it, I guess.

However, from the writers perspective, they probably made him so forced and favored because he is essentially what the whole game ends up being about: believing.

I feel like I understand why a lot of Kaito's actions/plot points exist, I just don't think there's any meaningful payoff (this was a recurring issue in v3 for me).

I dont think it's very good writing to tie up the idea of belief in one character and throw him everywhere when you have a cast of 16, but that's what it is so whatever.

Stuff like Kaito declaring Shuichi his sidekick makes sense at the time. He's pretty much stating that he will shoulder the blame (he does it so obnoxiously that I didn't even realize this was the goal until hindsight, but that's jut personal preference lol). I figured that at some point, Shuichi would become the "hero" and find the truth while accepting the consequences to him....but he doesn't. Not really. Even after Kaito's death he and Maki refer to themselves as Kaito's sidekicks. Why is the main character of the game never willing to accept himself as the hero?

I admit that this isn't necessarily true. There are some times where Shuichi is clearly following his own will regardless of Kaito. The main moment is in chapter 4. Except when Shuichi does it, he gets accused of siding with Kokichi and is a target of Kaito's anger. If the point of this relationship is for Shuichi to gain confidence, why is Kaito now going against it? It's an interesting idea of a pseudo-betrayal, but then we get forced to accept half the blame. Is Shuichi only allowed to pursue the truth when it benefits Kaito? What kind of friendship has one guy blame another for doing the correct thing, and guy 2 actually believes he did something wrong? Now Kaito's "hero" role looks less like a tool for development and more like narcissism or manipulation. Meanwhile, Shuichi never really separates himself from Kaito again, so even in the end he feels heavily dependent on Kaito being the hero rather than Shuichi taking the mantle himself.

I'd also like to touch on the chapter 2/chapter 4 idea, because I know that it's meant to contrast. I just don't think it actually does. Two wrongs don't make a right, except those two wrongs aren't even viewed negatively. In chapter 2 you follow Kaito's lead and lie for Maki (still one of the worst moments in any trial), and the baseless assumption ends up paying off (I'd like to take a quick sidebar and point out the absurd favoritism that Kaito gets here. Every single game has instances of a character believing in someone's innocence, only to have it crushed. I think that's one of the best parts of the franchise. Did Sonia's "belief" in Gundham change anything? Did Taka's "belief" in Mondo make us lie for him? Hell, even in the same trial Tenko defends Himiko constantly and nobody takes her seriously. And yet when Kaito makes a completely baseless claim (at least Sonia and Taka had an established friendship with Gundham and Mondo, whereas Kaito had nothing), we're supposed to drop everything and lie? Even though it turned out correct, why not just keep her as a suspect since we have evidence that ends up ruling her out anyway? Ridiculous.)

Anyway, back on track. Defending Maki turns out to be the right decision, and it's never really addressed that we lied in a trial to defend her, even when one of the cruxes of the trials since the first game was that we need everyone to tell the truth. Now jumping to chapter 4, Kaito puts that baseless belief in Gonta and is wrong. Except he isn't actually presented as wrong. Shuichi spends a lot of time post-accusation fending off Kaito's comments and worrying about his anger. We're supposed to pity Gonta and feel bad for accusing him, while being angry with Kokichi for tricking him- you know, the guy Kaito claims we're siding with. He literally says Shuichi is siding with the villain. And then when it blows over Kaito and Shuichi feel bad. Why? What has Shuichi done wrong here? If this is supposed to represent Kaito's beliefs falling flat on its face, why do we also need to feel guilty about that? Does he ever admit that his blind ideology directly impeded Shuichi's efforts to save everyone's life? Even when he does something blatantly wrong, part of the blame still falls on the player character. Imo if the point here is to contrast chapter 2 and 4 to show both sides of Kaito's ideology it fails completely, because Kaito himself never actually accepts full blame for that failure.

Anyway, this got pretty off-topic, but overall I feel like I understand the idea behind a lot of these writing decisions. Even if I thought Kaito was unlikable and it was a poor decision to shove him everywhere, I can see the idea behind a lot of his key moments. The issue is that very few of these moments actually hit the mark for me, and instead backfired and gave me a more negative impression of Kaito. Instead of coming off as the imperfect, hot-headed guy whose good moments outweigh his bad, he comes off as a selfish golden boy who never has to confront his mistakes because his borderline-manipulative relationship with Shuichi forces the player to feel guilty despite doing nothing wrong.

Another funny fact is how Kaito is handled in some key moments during the trials, regarding few culprits. In chapter 1, when Shuichi was proving that Kaede is the killer, Kaito suddenly tried to prove that she isn't, looking quite desesperate, which is weird because Kaede and Kaito barely bonded together properly. Same can be said about Gonta and Kaito in chapter 4. There wasn't any single bonding between them in the past chapters but the game not only forces Kaito to be the one who defend killers just because they are nice people, for make you see that he have good intentions, even though it doesn't make sense when he barely talked with that person but the game also wants you to easily forgive him no matter what they did since they doesn't punish Kaito for his mistakes. You are obligated to like and forgive Kaito. The game does their hardest to make you do so. And if you don't, the one who is wrong is you instead. That's one of the biggest issues with v3, like how I stated before: The game basically shove Kaito and Maki onto you constantly for make you like them and just like u/TheWorldIsGarbage said, the game doesn't punish neither of them for their actions. It's the reverse. No one blames them and Shuichi is the one who gets punished. He went to apologize, two times, one to Kaito for pointing Gonta as the killer and other to Maki, near the end of chapter 5, when he apologized for point Kaito as the killer when he was just doing his job and if he didn't, everyone would be pretty much dead.

There wasn't any single bonding between them in the past chapters but the game not only forces Kaito to be the one who defend killers just because they are nice people, for make you see that he have good intentions, even though it doesn't make sense when he barely talked with that person but the game also wants you to easily forgive him since they doesn't punish Kaito for his mistakes.

This is exactly why I dislike Kaito's beliefs. I do think the entire concept of his character his corny, but I like characters like Naruto. With Kaito, none of his believing in people seems earned. He defends people without any interaction. Even Naruto's constant excuses for Sasuke's crazy actions are at least based in the idea that they used to be best friends. Kaito has zero connection to Maki. He doesn't really have a strong connection to Gonta. And like you said, he also defends Kaede with little interaction beforehand.

Looking at it that way, I wish his character was aware of this and had a reason for it. Like he so desperately wants to believe people are good that he's willing to blindly trust everyone even in a killing game. Maybe he so badly wishes to be accepted that he sees trusting everyone as a shortcut to being trusted. Who knows.

Instead, he believes in people just because. I feel like it runs so contrary to one of the central ideas of the franchise, the potential for anyone to be a killer. And yes, clearly there are cases like Kyoko or Hina who would never kill anyone, but Kaito backs up culprits multiple times. Instead, we are always supposed to side with him and feel bad when we don't and we never reach a point where Kaito looks critically at his ideas of belief. Hell, even when everything goes wrong with Gonta, the crux of the next case is him trusting his rival to complete this wild plan that he had little input in, and trusting that Monokuma wouldn't be strict with the rules (wouldn't it be so Monokuma to say that, since he doesnt know the killer, you must pick the right one and prove it to him otherwise everyone is killed? They could choose Kaito anyway, but if they can't use the evidence to convince Monokuma, they're dead anyway. Him playing along with the "nobody knows who did it" idea felt so weird). Then he trusts Shuichi to solve it and only reveals himself after they pin it down. At what point does Kaito ever say "hmmm, maybe I should be a little more logical instead of going with my gut and hoping everything works out?"

Sorry to interject, but may I take a stab at this one?

Kaito has zero connection to Maki. He doesn't really have a strong connection to Gonta. And like you said, he also defends Kaede with little interaction beforehand.

Because Kaito completely rejects the idea of "trust is something that has to be earned." To him, it's just a part of common human decency.

Looking at it that way, I wish his character was aware of this and had a reason for it.

There kind of is. In Shuichi's first FTE with him, he says the most important trait for an astronaut is good communication, the foundation for teamwork. There are hundreds of people involved in a single venture into space. You're fellow astronauts, the engineers putting the rocket together, the people that have to handle the supplies and ensure there's enough fuel for the shuttle to get back, the people back at base running all the calculations, even the people that would have to train Kaito in the first place. And a single mistake can cost the astronauts their lives. Not enough food, not enough fuel, equipment not maintained to the degree it's required, if the parts of the rocket aren't connected correctly, it may suffer aerodynamically and not even leave the Earth, a stray miscalculation etc. Kaito's aspiration require him to have faith in everyone around him. to trust that they won't let him down and that they can all do their jobs correctly. So it makes sense for him to have a semblance of that level of good faith even now whilst he's training for it.

Equally, it puts pressure on him to do his job correctly so he doesn't let them down. That's why he's eager to try and take centre stage so often. He has to be prepared to pull his weight at every given opportunity.

Instead, we are always supposed to side with him and feel bad when we don't and we never reach a point where Kaito looks critically at his ideas of belief.

Shuichi does state, several times in chapter 5, that he had to do what he did. He doesn't regret his actions. Saying sorry to Kaito doesn't mean he's admitting to being in the wrong. It just means he wish it didn't have to be that way. And who can blame him? Nobody wanted Gonta to be the killer. You don't have to interpret the fallout from chapter 4 as "Kaito was right" unless you want to.

At what point does Kaito ever say "hmmm, maybe I should be a little more logical instead of going with my gut and hoping everything works out?"

Kaito regrets taking his anger out on Shuichi, but he doesn't regret sticking up for Gonta, even if it was the wrong move here. He doesn't change because he doesn't want to change. He accepts that sometimes he's going to put his trust in someone and that trust is going to be betrayed. But that will never stop him from doing it again, because he wants to be able to believe in people.

Because Kaito completely rejects the idea of "trust is something that has to be earned." To him, it's just a part of common human decency.

This is more of a personal thing, but I feel like this is kinda contradictory to some of the other parts of the DGR series. It's a running theme where you're punished for blind belief (Sayaka's murder plans, Nagito being a psycho, Kaede being a killer). So to have Kaito directly go against that feels out of place imo, especially since it becomes such a central part of the narrative.

Kaito's aspiration require him to have faith in everyone around him. to trust that they won't let him down and that they can all do their jobs correctly. So it makes sense for him to have a semblance of that level of good faith even now whilst he's training for it.

I like this, but it doesn't really explain his defense of Kaede/Maki/Gonta in trials since he has no evidence that they're innocent, and there's also evidence that puts them in a suspicious light. Presumably the engineers have credentials that suggest they can build a rocket. This is like if he took a random joe of the sidewalk and said "this guy's gonna build the rocket engine, I'm sure it'll work out".

Equally, it puts pressure on him to do his job correctly so he doesn't let them down. That's why he's eager to try and take centre stage so often. He has to be prepared to pull his weight at every given opportunity.

I feel like he doesn't really pull his weight outside of motivating Shuichi (which doesn't really work for me cuz of some of the reasons I said in the OP). He doesn't really find key pieces of evidence and randomly interjects his own spin that we take seriously for some reason. Hell, he completely bailed on the chapter 3 investigation due to his fear of seesaws haunted incest ghosts.

He doesn't change because he doesn't want to change. He accepts that sometimes he's going to put his trust in someone and that trust is going to be betrayed. But that will never stop him from doing it again, because he wants to be able to believe in people.

I just feel like at some point there's gotta be a line. Once he decided to side with a suspect for no logical reason, and side with a killer for no other reason than to stick it to Kokichi, there should be some realization. It's like blind faith is his drug and he's almost overdosed twice, but he's still not going to stop. And even then I wouldn't be that bothered, but he's putting everyone else's lives on the line as well and the story revolves around him and his ideals way too much for me

I'm probably being way too harsh on Kaito but I feel like there's very little awareness in his character. DGR does a good job of rejecting blind faith, and the characters you can trust are built up throughout the story. Kaito feels like a generic shounen protagonist but never got the reality check I expected the game to deliver, so I felt really disappointed. Instead he's rewarded for his actions in chapter 2 and is still the hero of the group after his stunt in chapter 4. Then on top of that he gets the ultimate martyr death of the series in chapter 5.

This is more of a personal thing, but I feel like this is kinda contradictory to some of the other parts of the DGR series. It's a running theme where you're punished for blind belief (Sayaka's murder plans, Nagito being a psycho, Kaede being a killer). So to have Kaito directly go against that feels out of place imo, especially since it becomes such a central part of the narrative.

Distrust is a common theme of the killing games, but that's precisely why he rejects it. He represents the antithesis of the killing game, more or less. There are plenty of characters in V3 who say they want to end the killing game, but they do so by playing it the way Monokuma wanted it to be played, with deceit and betrayal. Even Kaede fell into it's trap, immediately accepting that one of them is the mastermind despite her positive outlook moments before. Kaito doesn't just say he's rejecting the killing game. He actively tries to live up to those words by putting his trust in everyone, even Kokichi.

I like this, but it doesn't really explain his defense of Kaede/Maki/Gonta in trials since he has no evidence that they're innocent, and there's also evidence that puts them in a suspicious light.

He doesn't have evidence, but he doesn't need evidence to believe in someone. And in most cases, that's all his defence for these guys, are desperate attempts to believe in the best of them, clutching at any small discrepancy he can find to try and defend them. And's that not necessarily wrong, it is innocent until proven guilty, as Shuichi puts it. If there's something about this accusation that doesn't add up, there's reason to still have faith in them.

He doesn't really find key pieces of evidence and randomly interjects his own spin that we take seriously for some reason. Hell, he completely bailed on the chapter 3 investigation due to his fear of seesaws haunted incest ghosts.

Well, he does find the tennis net cable and was the only one that knew it's length, which was kind of important. If he hadn't stuck up for Maki when he did, that trial would've gone wrong. His guess about the culprit being inside the cage with Tenko wasn't exactly right, but the blade was poking through the cage, so he was on the right tracks. And it's not a typical investigation per se, but he did find the flashback light at the beginning of chapter 4.

In terms of pulling one's own weight, I feel like effort trumps results and no one can say Kaito isn't trying to do his fair share here.

I just feel like at some point there's gotta be a line. Once he decided to side with a suspect for no logical reason, and side with a killer for no other reason than to stick it to Kokichi, there should be some realization.

Depends how exactly we define logic. This is kind of a lose-lose situation either way. You reject the killing game, you risk your lives and everyone else's. You play the killing game the way it's meant to be played, you give Monokuma what he wants. You lose faith in your friends, grow mistrustful and paranoid, perhaps wind-up becoming a blackend yourself because you've given into despair. Would you rather die following your own code, or live as someone your previous self would be ashamed of? Kaito would seemingly go with the former for the most part.

I won't deny there's problems, the game demonstrates the problems. But there's problems in the other mentality as well.

Funnily enough, if this was the intention that ended up backfiring so badly on me the only person I liked enough to give a fuck about at the end was Kokichi, and a big part of that disdain was how forced so many parts of the story felt at expense of you know, having people not act like idiots for the 40950906th time in the game.

You have to believe Shuichi's fictional feelings are worth fighting for enough to just not play the game.

I'd probably have just shut it off from actually being bored of hearing people repeat the same thing again than it being out of consideration of some emo loser's feelings that he developed out of nowhere when his potential waifu decides to maybe atone for what she did out of ~love~ /s, but don't even get me started on how the last trial is so unbelievably dumb and forced it makes the belief that Kaede totally brained Rantaro with a contrived trap and he coincidentally just happened to have placed his Monopad back into his pocket when the ball hit him and some of his blood coincidentally splattered on a bookcase far from him look like a mark of genius.

Kaito taking credit for Shuichi is meant to be him helping Shuichi though. Shuichi doesn't want to be directly in the spotlight, so Kaito makes him his "sidekick", in order to give him the feeling of not being in the spotlight and allowing him to work at his best.

That's what the entire point of that one scene in the chapter 2 trial is for.

He started to act so childish towards Shuichi by ignoring and not talking to him.

I feel that you misinterpreted Kaito in the daily life. Kaito wasn't ignoring Shuichi because he was a sore loser, he was ignoring him because he didn't know how to confront his flaws from Chapter 4 and make amends with Shuichi. Not only that, he felt bad after lashing out at Shuichi for not doing his detective work right. I feel that, in real life, it's difficult to apologize to someone or interact with them when you did something guilty. I believe how Kaito acted in this was very realistic.

I also thought at the beginning that Momota was avoiding Saihara due to embarrassment regarding how he acted in Trial 4 (ie his supposed support of Saihara as a detective evaporating the moment that he doesn't like Saihara's deductions). But then he switched to calling Saihara by his surname throughout the normal Daily Life section of chapter 5 (the handling of which was unfortunately completely botched by the English translation). That is tantamount to declaring their friendship was over. That's not embarrassment, that's someone pitching a tantrum over being proven wrong.

Not trying to sound rude but...What did I said wrong regarding "started to act so childish towards Shuichi"? You talked about his reasons for it but I was talking about the way Kaito acted in this part. I wasn't talking about Kaito's reasons but yes his attitude. You even indirectly agreed with me by saying he was ignoring Shuichi. Whatever were his reasons, is still rather childish for ignoring a person after what happened, making them feel bad and acting angry after they saved his life (post-chapter 4 trial) for doing the right thing while didn't even trying to talk with them. This just extended in chapter 5 daily life and honestly, instead of facing stuff (kinda constrating like how Kaito have been since he is so straightforward) just because he doesn't want to confront or apologize, is kinda childish.

Kaito is hands down my least favorite character in the series. Without a doubt. He works as a development tool for others but he himself goes through seemingly no development.

He's an overly positive, annoying cliche who gets in the way more than he helps. He's literally only there to be a sort of antithesis to Kokichi and to be the "devils advocate" to Shuichi's truth searching but jesus christ. At certain points it feels so forced. Cough chapter 4 cough. He's as one note as it gets and it irks me.

tbh all of that could be more or less forgiven if he wasn't forced on the player. Other key characters sort of develop naturally. Chiaki and Kyoko help in the trials so a sense of teamwork is formed. kaito literally just appears and then you're best friends. The relationship development isn't made through the killing game, it's made through the side activities they do together that you're forced to watch.

Also, side note. i think it was a huge misstep to show Kaito coughing blood too early. As soon as he did it was obvious he was going to die, and I immediately cared less. I had already come to terms with his demise and he overstayed his welcome.

he did have a pretty kick ass death tho.

At first, just like Shuichi, his character looked bland to me, but as the story progress, he became one of my favorite (along with Shuichi), his faith on others and his inspirational lines were the kind of light the characters needed in such a depressing enviroment.

I'm not going to deny he has issues, though. Shuichi didnt deserve his cold treatment in chapter 4 Trial and chapter 5 daily life (though im glad they were glad to make amends), and his biggest flaw for me: his toxic masculinity. Yet despite all of this, he won a place of my heart because of how much he helped both Maki and Shuichi to grow (and his bromance with Saihara is hella adorable imo.)

Also, he won my heart when he made something I've been waiting since Chapter 1: punch Kokichi.

I personally don't care for Kaito as much as some of the other characters, but that doesn't exclude him from being another great addition to the cast, and a pretty integral one.

After Kaede's death, Kaito takes up her position as the "leader" of the group, guiding them, making the big decisions, and providing help for them when he can. Whenever the group as a whole needs to make an important choice, it's almost always Kaito that they end up turning to. He even forms very personal relations with Maki and Shuchi, acting as a pseudo-therapist for them to vent and open up about their problems, and hopefully do away with them entirely.

Kaito's a very empathetic person, always believing in people even when there's no basis for it, and he's really good at understanding others and figuring out what makes them tick or what's bothering them. To say nothing of his interactions with Maki and Shuichi, he also comes the furthest to understanding Kokichi (even before Kokichi confesses his intentions). He finds him a definite pest for sure and their personalities and ideals do clash a lot, but he never condemns him or thinks of him as a truly bad person, until Chapter 4 anyway. He correctly points out that Kokichi is just putting on a mask and hiding his real feelings and intentions.

Kaito's most defining positive quality overall, is probably that he's a real people-person, moreso than even Kaede.

It can be pretty difficult for people to notice some of the more negative qualities of Kaito, especially when he tries really hard to project the image of someone tough, reliable, and charismatic and to an extent, does succeed, at least in regards to being charismatic, although as we see later on, that doesn't necessarily have to be a good thing.

For one thing, like I said, Kaito really wants to be seen as this awesome guy others can rely on because he's fully aware of how inadequate he is but really wants to hide it. Perhaps it's because he wants to achieve his dream of going to space, so he needs to convince himself how great he is, that he can make it? Regardless, he knows that his investigative capabilities, while not entirely non-existent, pale in comparison to the likes of Shuichi and Kokichi. Heck, even Maki is smarter than him. So what he does is essentially use their accomplishments to prop himself up as being more helpful and important than he really is. Which is kind of a crappy thing to do but Shuichi doesn't especially mind all that much seeing as how he does confide in Kaito a lot and he's received a lot of support from him.

His other negative quality is also one of his positive traits, his empathy. While his faith in other people is earnest and well-meaning, and there are times when it ends up paying off for him and the others, this has the side effect of him not really taking into account the downsides of having such blind trust in others, namely that it's incredibly easy for that trust to be completely broken, even from the people that you would least expect. And Kaito's spent so much time with the others that his well-meaning, but ultimately toxic, approach to the killing game has rubbed off on them, and if it weren't for Kokichi's intervention, Kaito absolutely would've gotten everyone killed.

Both of these negative traits come to a head in the fourth trial, where Kokichi absolutely shatters Kaito's ideals and all but says "You're relying on Shuichi to do everything for you, you're not nearly as awesome as you think you are, just accept it", and this really rubs Kaito the wrong way. He's incredibly stubborn, obviously in part because he doesn't want to believe Gonta would kill, but more than that he doesn't want to admit that Kokichi is absolutely right about him. The conclusion to the trial, and the massive blow to his ego, strains his relationship with Kokichi to the extreme, not that they were exactly buddy-buddy before, but it also has the effect of wounding his relationship with Shuichi.

Interestingly, for someone who values honesty and finds Kokichi's lies incredibly distasteful, Kaito turns out to be a pretty dishonest person as well, both to himself and others. It's hard for him to truly admit when he's wrong, keeps his feelings of weakness hidden to everyone and tries to convince himself that they don't exist, and probably the most egregious case, lies about the fact that he's, you know, dying. He puts on this mask of being this super-special guy who's super dependable and can do anything he sets his mind to to hide his insecurities from others and to tell himself that he really is a super-special guy, just like how Kokichi puts on this facade of the evil mastermind who sows chaos and discord to cope with being in a situation he absolutely detests and wouldn't really be able to survive in otherwise. It's a very interesting commonality.

He does later come to term with the fact that him feeling weak or inadequate for relying on Shuchi is incredibly childish and admits that he was jealous. For all the times that Shuichi has been opening up to Kaito, this is the first and final time that Kaito opens up to Shuichi about what he's really been feeling, and I think it's a great conclusion to their friendship. His words to Maki about loving herself, not really indicating whether he returned her feelings or not, was also a cute touch.

I would talk more about his relationship and rivalry with Kokichi but it's late and I'm getting a headache, maybe ill save that for Kokichi's section.

So yeah, Kamina is a better character than others give him credit for I think. I'll probably have a bit more to talk about when I get to Simon.

ADDENDUM: Thinking about it, there's actually a pretty simple reason why Kaito chooses to always trust others even without anything to back it up. He himself states that cooperation and teamwork are absolutely key for an astronaut, and if you're gonna cooperate with someone in the depths of space, or in the context of a killing game, or just in general, you have to be able to trust them 110%.

Being that Kokichi is my favorite character, I would like to point out that Kaito is a fine example of irony in a game where everyone hates the self-declared liar and villain who repeatedly reminds people of their flaws and the problems the group has as a collective, and they like the heroic liar who feeds them empty but encouraging words even though it's obvious by the start of chapter 5 that Kaito did not watch over Maki as much as he thought he did to the point that he even had to make a remark on her recklessness.

I really like Kaito despite his flaws, he's like the best bro I wish I could've had. I don't have much to say about him though since I feel some people here have already said everything I wanted to say.

​ I feel kinda weird with Momota. When I played the game I enjoyed some of the moments he had, and I'm fond of this type of character (the big bro kind of motivational), and the relationship that can be formed with another character as like "two people consider themselves as brothers but aren't blood related" (which we already get with Ishimaru/Oowada and Hinata/Kuzuryuu), and he does make for some good moments in the game, even if looking back I don't hold him to such high regards.

So this is the part where normally I would be doing a checklist of what this character has in common with another character (since aside from Hoshi, easily every single character in this game has similarities/common traits to any other character in any former game), but here it would be faster to get something from what Momota is supposed to be in the game he's in. So he encourages many characters - wait, correction : only two who are actually the ones considered as most important by the narrative, namely the soo original classic Protagonist and the- but also acts as the Inspirational Leader for most people — and most of the time it mostly work for the aforementioned two characters.

Basically I feel like Momota is fine (and prolly great for me despite some.. things) but is "fucked" over by other characters (like the one the writers made him "serve" mostly) or the narrative. Okay, maybe not much the narrative since he does get something : it's one first chapter of doing not much, then at the end of it he takes his role of bro leader kamina-esque for the rest of it while they set up a bunch of death flags for tragedy for four chapters coupled with the usual "Trust without doubt is not really trust" that was thrown around since the first game and we get that with Momota in the fourth trial (comin' back to it later), to finally end up with tragedy at the last one so that it allows (again) the aforementionned people to develop.

It's an issue I have with V3 that is going to be touched on this Monday with the character we're gonna deal with and it's also in relation in how Momota is the one motivating the protagonist into growing and the approach they take is something that bothers me. Now I said that aside from the "stunt" he has with Monokuma and calling that meeting one minute before they possibly get all killed, he doesn't do much in first chapter. The reason why? Someone else does in one chapter what he's going to do the entire game.

Yup, Akamatsu was practically Momota in Chapter 1 (of course the two characters have their differences, which I'll delve in later) and after she gets chopped for Classic Manpain, Momota of course gets to go the longest time on screen cuz that's Kodaka (mostly). That mostly question then what's the point of just making Akamatsu bit the dust in the first chapter when... almost everything Momota does can be done with her due to how awfully similar they are. (The real reason of course is just your classic simple Shock Value twist instead of doing anything more.... interesting). I've said in Harukawa's thing how the fact that he just so happens to trust people and it suddenly works out (and not for Tojo of fucking course) and they lie about it just stinks of plot convenience, so the fact that most things suddenly work for him is just insanely contrived. So the fact that they manage to adress that peculiar flaw in Chapter 4 is what I consider a good thing at least, even if the delivery is fine for what it is, there's still an issue with the setup, since, as others in this thread put it, it seems like they put a clash between Momota and Ouma, but here since Ouma is the one to just send Gonta to his death it doesn't feel more like it. It would've worked if they had something like both of them clash it out in a trial where they, like, run into a murder none of them knew about and they have this addressed.

Like I said earlier the fact that Momota plays too much like Akamatsu (even if unlike her he's too trusting of others, when she doubts too much), one thing I feel that's at least cool by the end of the game and makes his character have something more is his "rivalry" with Ouma. On one side there is the self-entitled hero and on the other end the self entitled villain and I felt that it hit it well despite some things that didn't like what I said about chapter 4 and also the inconsistencies in chapter 5, but I felt that dynamic made for better characterisation in some way, which also allows for Momota to grow a bit. A thing that could've made it better is for Ouma to also grow because of Momota kinda, cuz here again it's more "one-sided" to have Ouma being that pain in the ass but he doesn't get to grow from this. That would've been more compelling IMO.

Something I also didn't see that often is that aside from the motivator, does Momota's talents... really matter at all ? Like yeah, V3 has a big issue unlike SDR2 is that they don't show every talent like it should or they don't use it well. Here with Momota he's an astronaut, can speak several languages and all, must be pretty good in scienes (which I envy personally), so that might be a great asset in trials, right ? That'd be so gre- Reality : Tell them Naeg- erm, Shuichi. Fantastic. Actually one could argue that it matters in Chapter 5, which is rather more contrived than anything, but then again, the whole chapter is this way : they try to make us buy that it could've either been Ouma or Momota in the Exisal when it's very obvious for how they push for Momota to be the victim that he's definitely not, especially when they just have him speak for 5% of the time against 95% for Ouma, also how can he just fool EVERYONE including MONOKUMA for a guy he knew for a few weeks (and again in DR1 people noticed - EVEN NAEGI - that "Junko" seemed off and again the twins knew each other their whole life, so this is more realistic in some way). Also how he can just not cough at all despite his disease for the three hours he spent in there, and I'm not even going for the Contrived Mic Changer that just so happens to be a feature, but I've already gone over this.

Despite all that, Momota was at least a fine part of this chapter (best part at least) for the plan he was going for and I like that, despite the shit quality of this chapter, unlike the former chapter 5's victim of the former main game, they make us care a bit more about him and make a nice sendoff with that execution (nice call-back !), so I like it. It would've been a bit better though if actually they made the others (as in, not aforementionned characters) care about him more because while the game is all "wow such a great leader" when he only gave a shit about like only two people.

It would've been a bit better though if actually they made the others (as in, not aforementioned characters) care about him more because while the game is all "wow such a great leader" when he only gave a shit about like only two people

While Maki and Shuichi get the most focus to Kaito's teachings, he also lends a hand to Gonta and Himiko. He tells Gonta throughout the game that he needs to have more backbone in him and not act like such a doormat to Kokichi. And in the Chapter 3 trial, Kaito backs up Himiko's request to go over Tenko's death, telling her that she needs to face her death head on.

And while she only lasted a Chapter, Kaito really admired Kaede and always defended her, such as when everyone was chewing her out for constantly trying to do the death road game.

Very true about the Akamatsu part, I thought that I forgot to add something in my essay and this would be it I guess, and while I wasn't a fan of this trial that much that made for a good highlight IMO.

They do that with Gonta and Yumeno, yes, but it's only like, a few lines, similarly to what he said to Hoshi for BE A MAN and such, like that would help. For example, why wouldn't Momota for example invite Yumeno to the training sessions he organizes with the two others to boost her? The reason? The game only cares about having a trio of characters getting focus so Yumeno had to just be quickly flanderized in Chapter 4 when you could've made her development be so much more.

I have very mixed feelings about Kaito

On the one hand, his character feels pretty different. Being a bro to the protagonist, it was a pretty new dynamic. I could at least appreciate that he didn't seem so derivative like the other characters. He gets a funny moment here and there. His talent is awesome, and one of those DR talents that kind of just fits perfectly with the character without being too forced. He has a really good arc that actually gets the time to flesh out, and his death is legitimately sad. For someone who I kind of wrote off early as the Hagakure of the group, I loved the direction he went in with him sort of being the group's headstrong leader that tried to keep everyone together

On the other hand, I can't say I'm a huge fan. In general, I mostly found him kind of annoying. I didn't really like Kamina in TTGL either (or the entire show in general) and while I think Kaito is better he's just a general archetype that I don't really like. His character kind of feels ridiculous to me. He believes in other people so deeply without any reason to the point where it just feels unrealistic. His FTEs are horrible. Easily a bottom 3 of the series for me

But like I said, he gets his time to be fleshed out, goes through the proper beats of his arc (I actually really liked him in Ch4. I loved when he said "You want proof?! I got your proof!" in Ch4 even though he got shut down quickly after), and his death is sad. It wasn't until he died where I actually realized I liked him. Better late than never, I suppose

And while his constant belief in others is irritatingly unrealistic, at least he always follows through on it. He protected the guy he hated so much from being killed to that end as well. Most of his actions in the game are nothing short of being both idiotic and admirable, and I guess that's kind of who Kaito is

So overall, I'd say he's a character who's aged well. The more I think about V3, the more I overall like Kaito. I just don't love him, because there still is a large portion of the game where he takes up a good amount of screentime for a character I mostly found annoying/boring. But his ending is still really good, as I've said. And that's not just some small thing

I also really, really appreciate his execution. It's the best one in the whole series to me (though admittedly I don't really like the executions in general). It would've been very easy for the writers to twist the knife one more time, get that last bit of despair out of the players. It would've been too much, and I loved the restraint

But wtf was up with his voice in Ch1. It's pretty jarring to hear after playing the rest of the game

I kind of forgot to ask during his week, but what makes you hate Kaito's FTEs so much? I don't think they're anything special, but I never found them to be horrible.

2 of them are literally him talking about a pointless story

I guess I just never really cared for his relationship for Shuichi, so even if I like Kaito, his FTEs kind of sucked to me since that was the focus. Probably not bottom 3 though, maybe bottom 5

I did enjoy his two events where he made up stories, mainly because it illustrated his need to look good in front of others, but I get where you're coming from.

I do agree that his FTEs focused too much on his friendship with Shuichi instead of his background though.

I did enjoy his two events where he made up stories, mainly because it illustrated his need to look good in front of others, but I get where you're coming from

That's a fine impression, but using 2 FTE slots on the same story was a bit much. Imo it just gave the impression that the writers really didn't know what to do for his segments so they just filled it with fluff

He's not the first character I like who has bad FTEs though (and in fact there's a character coming up who I like that I think has the worst FTEs in the series)

He's not the first character I like who has bad FTEs though (and in fact there's a character coming up who I like that I think has the worst FTEs in the series)

I have a gut feeling that you are talking about Kaede or Angie?

You'll see :p

Yeah, I don't really like Kaito. I'm not even going to try to stall that fact.

He seems to be the Chiaki of this game, the person that supports you throughout the adventure. Someone to help with development of the protagonist (and Maki too). However, Kaito comes off as too forced in the plot with this development. His first exercise scene was charming, but it got old fast. I'm glad Shuichi and Maki developed, but it could've been done better imo without feeling forced. He's also pretty unlikable imo. He's a hypocrite, he says nothing is impossible, but he believes Gonta being the culprit is impossible, yet no one calls him out on it. He's always taking the credit from Shuichi (even calling him his sidekick), and does nothing in the class trial except for providing two debate scrum points in chapter 1 & 2. I will admit it's fresh to have a "stupid partner" but he could've at least contributed in the investigations, but nope. He felt like another Yasuhiro and Kaizuichi, a dumb, hot-headed character that barely does anything in the trials (or at least intentionally tries to help), and just ended up being annoying. The only difference is that he has the center stage.

The only good thing I can say is his backstory, which is simple, but it works. Also, the whole summer vacation thing was cool to listen to, even if I wish it didn't take up a good amount of the time in the FTE's and was, admittedly, pointless in the long run. It's still some cool background information.

I don't have time to write but Kaito Momota was easily the best character in drv3 (with Kokichi at a close second). Hell, maybe even in danganronpa in general. It's pretty hard Not to like this guy. I love him and his attitude and his flaws so much.

Kaito is an interesting character. I like Kaito, I think he's a good person in general, even without alteration. He manages to get a complete arc over the course of the game (a rare thing in danganronpa to begin with) that shows him to have become the hero he seems to want to be. Which is why it pains me so much to say I think the story and game as a whole would've been better without him.

I'll start with what I like. From the start, Kaito is one of the few people that unerringly supports Kaede, even when Kokichi is trying to turn the group against her. Kaito then proves himself to be brave and a little foolhardy, organizing an effort to literally fight infinite Monokumas hand-to-hand along with the exisals which are basically assumed to be nigh-invincible. Obviously, we know that's going to fail, we've seen better fighters lose to a single Monokuma in the previous games and these guys would be heavily outnumbered, but it's a good touch that these guys don't necessarily know that and it shows Kaito's recklessness even in the face of near-certain death.

Then after Kaede dies, he takes on Shuichi as his "sidekick", and the more questionable aspects of his character come to the forefront. I doubt I'm the only person that noticed Kaito's offer to Shuichi sounds a lot like "you do all the work and I'll take all the credit", but he's good at selling it and Shuichi does end up taking him up on the deal. From his FTEs, it seems like Kaito might be a genuine example of "fake it til you make it", where his "heroism" is all a lie and he's literally just bluffing his way around while taking credit for the efforts of legitimately talented, but very insecure people. Hence the "fake it" part.

Then by the end he had made it. He may have been wrong in his unwavering faith during chapter 4, but in chapter 5 he stood tall on his own ability and sacrificed himself for his friends, not only by blocking Maki's crossbow bolt, but by revealing his identity and throwing away Kokichi's plan to save the class from the death Monokuma would probably stick them with if they voted wrong. It would've been a very interesting take on the truth and lies theme, a fraud who made himself a real hero, creating something real from a lie with enough determination. Even his design seems to evoke that ill-fitting heroism, resembling both headmaster Kirigiri and Hagakure, one of whom is either a puppet leader or completely incompetent and the other who's a bit of an idiot that ends up being a burden more often than a help...

That's not to say he never helps, he does, though it's often by encouraging Shuichi and defending him from other's verbal assaults and accusations... At first. Later he starts to take a more active part, and things get more iffy.

Now we're getting into the stuff I don't like, which is how Kaito ends up dominating the plot. I think it's pretty obvious Kokichi was going to be a big player from the beginning, he's a liar in a game about lying for crying out loud, and an obvious antagonist character to boot, but Kaito was more like a twist on a "normal" protagonist character that ended up overshadowing the real one. Some people thought Nagito felt more like the protagonist than Hajime in DR2, but I didn't really get that sense because he acts freely without our knowledge and generally divorces us from his way of thinking, much like Kokichi. Kaito doesn't really do that, it just happens that we can't actively hear his thoughts. Kaito ends up being the center of attention for the class, is an open enough book that we can pretty easily gauge how he's going to react in any given situation, and his conflicts with Kokichi, both physical and ideological, make it feel like he's the one that's supposed to be the real protagonist and they just didn't want to kill off two protags in one game.

As for specific examples, the real prime moment for this for me was when he and Kokichi are fighting about Gonta being the blackened, and Shuichi basically ends up in a supporting role while Kokichi and Kaito run through as the big players. On a lesser note, the fact that he openly attacks Kokichi at the moments the player probably most wants to do that make me feel like I connect more with him than I do with Shuichi. Those aren't the only instances of him dominating things, but I don't particularly want to dig through the transcripts for less outstanding examples.

Also, it feels like Kaito ended up being the killer of chapter 5 just so he could say his goodbyes, since it doesn't make sense for Kokichi to have risked his plan by leaving it him, which feels a little unfair to just about everyone who didn't get that chance. Alongside Tenko's final words to Himiko, V3 in general seems to have decided it wants to be much more fair to its characters than the previous games, which I would argue takes a notable amount of impact away from their deaths.

If the problem was limited to Shuichi and the protagonist-ness, I might be able to write it off as unreliable narrator since Shuichi loves him so much (though it does take away from the "fake hero turned real" aspect), but it's not. Remember all those complaints about Maki from her character analysis? A lot of them could be attributed to the writers wanting to make Kaito look cool and wanting their ship to be a wholesome one. Why is she kind of a cold bitch with a warm center instead of the warm face hiding a cold killer? Kaito needs to defrost the ice queen, and they wouldn't want to risk their ship looking toxic by suggesting she might be using him. Why does she fail to kill Kokichi despite being the ULTIMATE ASSASSIN? Because Kaito needed to have his heroic moment, and if she succeeded then he wouldn't get it. Why does she have such a tragic, edgelord backstory? So Kaito's waifu can be a sad muffin that never even wanted to be an assassin instead of being someone that's good as murder that Kaito happens to be friendly toward. I highly doubt she's the only example, but she's the biggest one.

And then the story itself sort of bends around to add drama with his disease. It draws attention away from other things happening and while I don't personally think it distracted from the other drama going on, it seems like the kind of thing that would for some people. Plus, it seems odd to have it there to begin with when the only things it adds to the plot get discredited as fake by the ending almost immediately after his death, and Shuichi doesn't get to see it, further divorcing us from his POV... (s)Oh wait, clearly it's so Kaito doesn't look weak when Kokichi trounces him, because obviously he's going to be weaker when he's sick, and so Kaito can escape execution by dying first, my bad.(/s)

The disease might've been an interesting thing to add if they were maintaining the "fake hero" aspect better and made it clear that he was just trying to put on a strong front so nobody would think he's any less than perfect, but given how it's presented it feels more like showing he's willingly suffering in silence to make everyone else feel okay. That interpretation highlights an idea that V3 seems to push far more than previous games, one which Kaede shows more clearly, the idea being that it's good and noble to suffer in silence for other people's comfort instead of trying to get help and support, and by extension that their comfort is more important than your own well-being. I'll talk more about that idea on Kaede's week, but for now I'll just say it's a fairly toxic message to send. Kaede sort of works for it since it's shown that she was in the wrong for not taking the first blood perk and making everyone suffer more for it, but given how Kaito is shown it seems to be played straight in his case.

However, I suspect the actual reason Kaito hides his sickness (and has a sickness in the first place) has less to do with that and more to do with what the "intended" plot (in-universe, written by Team Danganronpa) was going to be if Kokichi hadn't taken it on himself to derail it, but more on that for his week. I will say now that I suspect Kaito was "originally" meant to mysteriously die during chapter 5 from what appeared to be poison, and the students were supposed to find out who "poisoned" him, only to either execute an innocent person or discover the mastermind infected him with a disease and kick off the endgame. Which coincidentally would mean Kaito was also in the wrong for trying not to worry people over his health, but I digress.

His talent also seems almost random. I'm not expecting him to be actually be an Astronaut who's gone to space when he's in high school, just the time the trip would take would mean he'd probably miss a decent portion of normal schooling. I just think it's kind of annoying to make him someone who acts like a reckless idiot when astronauts are very smart, scientifically minded people who need to be able to operate and maintain the most complicated machines of the modern world (there's a reason "rocket science" is the byword for "difficult", after all). It might make sense if he HAD missed a few years of his childhood because he went to space, but why would they send a kid to space to begin with... Wait, why do we need to worry about backstory realism when the backstories are canonically fake? Did they think it was more believable that there are lizard people in the forest than that they sent a kid to space? This is probably the least of my complaints, but it's there.

All that said, I do still like Kaito, but given how he seems to have "corrupted" those around him into blander characters and altered the plot itself just to make him seem cooler, I do think the story would've been slightly stronger if it had been written without him in it. Obviously the best solution would've been to have him in it, but then to avoid the trappings that end up altering the story for his benefit, but if we had to choose then I'd say drop him.

I like Kaito and I found him a deep interesting character but I would like him more if he was more different from Kamina (Gurren Lagann)... Like, can someone tell me their differences? Because I can't.

Kaito is yet another V3 character that I'm conflicted about but one that I rank higher than the likes of Tsumugi and Maki. I felt V3 did something pretty unique with him, deconstructing the bro archetype that's widespread in anime and other forms of media. It's just unfortunate that I eventually got bored of him. By the time his mysterious illness was revealed, it was pretty obvious where they were going with him and I just wished his arc didn't drag on so much and just got to the point of it. 

I'm a big fan of the idea behind his character where he's the supportive bro who's there to believe in you more than you believe in yourself but the brand of belief that he brings to the table is not without its flaws and is taken more ambiguously than it usually is with other characters filling in the bro role. For me, Kaito's flaws are what made him stand out as it doesn't just boil down to him being loud and stupid (although he is that too). He's stubborn in his belief and relies too much on instinct, which are intrinsic parts of the bro formula but are usually just treated as part of the bro's simpleton nature. But for Kaito, both the good and bad sides of these traits are explored. Kaito's arc shows that you may be the most supportive guy out there and be out in the running for Ultimate Bro but it doesn't matter much if you choose the wrong person to put your trust in...and it shows in the varied types of people Kaito decides to defend.

Another thing I like about his arc is that by the end of it all, Kaito didn't exactly change his core traits. He was still stubborn and relied on his gut but that's probably why Kokichi saw a great opportunity in choosing Kaito as his accomplice. He had what it took to take on the mastermind and that's why he didn't need to change.

It's also interesting seeing who Kaito puts his trust in: Kaede, Shuichi, Maki and Gonta. Three of these turned out to be killers in some way. And if you count Ryouma and Kokichi, that does make for quite a morally ambiguous bunch. Again, I'm oversimplifying things but maybe Kaito realised that these were the people in the most need of support...it just doesn't always end up well for Kaito himself.

Now, for what the parts of his character I didn't quite like:

His repetitive dynamic with Shuichi and Maki. At first, I thought it was his overexposure that killed him for me but as I thought more into it, I didn't think this was the case. In fact, I'm all for more Kaito. Imo he has one of the most varied set of interactions among the cast. It's just a shame that his interactions with Maki and Shuichi were the ones given the most focus. It's not even Maki and Shuichi that I have a problem with. It's how they chose to hang out every each time. I'm beating a dead horse here but those exercise sessions were a mistake. Why must their interactions be focused in these fixed repetitive moments? Why couldn't they do something more creative with their time? Those sessions just added an unnecessary level of formula to V3's already formulaic storyline imo. And because of that, I think the characterisation of the main trio suffered because their interactions were attached to a series of events that was boring and repetitive at least to me. By the time Chapter 4 came, I grew bored of them because I knew what to anticipate from them. Don't get me wrong. I don't mind some bits of formula like the morning breakfast meetups (probably because these typically involve the whole cast) but I'm of the opinion that they shouldn't be too much casual 'bonding' sessions in a story that's restricted to six chapters. I think these kind of meetups are more suited for slice of life anime, not murder mysteries.

How he seemed to be written to die. Once Kaito's mysterious illness was revealed, my suspicions that he was about to die were raised...once Chapter 5 rolled along, I knew he was a goner. First, TTGL. He also started having more screentime around Chapter 2. The same goes to Shuichi too though...Kaito's just a main character. It makes sense. Then, he started disappearing, dismissing himself from investigations...Okay. Then, he coughs up blood...Oh,oh. Then, he has a fall out with Shuichi. He's going to die, isn't he? He plans stuff and gets kidnapped by Kokichi...and revealed to be the killer! Did you really expect me to believe Kaito was going to survive til the end, game? What's notable about most of these things to me were that they were all seemed more like death flags, then a natural progression to events.

I'm not a fan of how they had to hint at his death a few chapters before it actually happened. I think it takes the surprise away from his eventual death. Shuichi, Maki and the gang were shocked but I honestly couldn't feel the moment. I think a fair comparison can be made with Chiaki who didn't seem to raise any death flags prior to her death, making the traitor and killer reveal in Chapter 5 all the more shocking. Another comparison could be made with Chiaki again but this time in DR3 where I feel she had this exact same problem (Oh, come on someone that important to everyone's life is going to live, yeah right), not helped by the fact that her very presence in the anime was already raising some leading questions. Basically, I'm just not a fan of how he had too many death flag moments.

Writing this down made me realise that I actually do like Kaito quite a lot. His character makes me think a lot and that's something I highly appreciate in a character. A large part of my enjoyment to his character was that I frequently associated him to another bro I was introduced to the same year, Persona 5's Ryuji Sakamoto. Comparing him with Ryuji (a down to earth portrayal  of the bro played fairly straight) reminded me of what I liked about DR, especially the original: in that its characters are over-the-top deconstructions of common anime tropes. And that alone makes him a top tier character for me.

I was certain that he was the killer of Chapter 2, in that the twist after the Chapter 1 twist that Kaito would just be trying to play nice with the detective guy to try and get you off his case. As it turns out Kaito was legit and he really did just want to believe in his friends. Kaito was likeable despite his cowardly points. He was hard to understand at point but that seems to be because he's the type who doesn't actually like to talk about his own feelings and wants to focus on pulling everyone else up instead. Perhaps he is somewhat forced on to the player a bit which might make some people resent him some more, but as I liked both Kaito and Maki I guess I didn't mind them getting so much screentime.

It may not be a popular choice here, but he has my favourite "execution" in the series because it was basically just a giant middle finger to Monokuma and Danganronpa. Tsumugi can claim it was all part of her plan for him to die there, but like I said back in her discussion she already lost control of the game at this point. His punishment basically granted him his one wish in life and allowed him to die in peace with himself.

Kaito is..... a mixed thing for me. Look when I post my opinions I just want to remind you that when I look at these characters I look at them through two different lenses. As a character and as a person. As a character, Kaito is definitely a good guy. He always acts as a rock for others to lean on and actively works to help others such as Shuichi and Maki. And he even has good writing as despite the courageous hero he actually is less than that seeing as how he has lied to others for noble reasons as to keep up his image for others. And he even has one of the most satisfying executions in the series not because he deserved it, but for the fact that he screwed over Monokuma and took away his fun like Kokichi did.

Speaking of Kokichi, his relationship with him is one of the most intriguing relationships in the series. The two are obvious parallels with belief and logic with Shuichi acting as a middleman. And in a way both have their appeals. Personally I side with Kokichi because I am a logical person and it is pretty reckless to just put your faith into others so easily. The best part is the end of coursewhere the two of them actually embrace their ideologies with Kokichi trusting in Kaito after death and Kaito actually going along with Kokichi's plan and deceiving the others. I find it to be pretty interesting how these two were able to work together. However that makes me feel sad due to the fact that it could have been something better.

Of course as a person I cannot stand him tbh. He constantly talks big despite the fact that he can be pretty cowardly. There is the tragedy that is Chapter 4 where he basically puts his morals ahead of others due to his hatred for Kokichi and his jealousy for Shuichi. He puts his ideals in a situation where they could be killed and was ultimately shattered. Of course he redeems himself but that still leaves a bitter taste in my mouth.

Looking at Kaito at face value we see that he is the Ultimate Astronaut. But honestly I have severe doubts. For one thing he has done nothing noteworty that needs validation. In chapter 1 he sided with Kaede being innocent. In chapter 2 he just believes Maki with no evidence whatsoever. Chapter 3 had him scared too shitless to investigate. Chapter 4. And Chapter 5 had him just follow Kokichi's plan. Not to mention that his design is just my least favorite of the cast. Seriously His hair defies gravity, his goatee is stuid, and his jacket should be worn with both arms. Seriously he should be the Ultimate Cheerleader instead. Hell I even gave him an insulting nickname. Instead of the "Luminary of the Stars" I called him the "Dumbass of the Cosmos."

Overall while I might not like Kaito as a person I respect him as a character. He is a good person no doubt. I just plainly don't like him much.

Before I even really knew about DanganRonpa V3, one of the first things I looked up about it were of course the characters themselves, and along the way one of the things already spoiled to me (not that I mind spoilers generally...) was that Kaede would merely be a decoy protagonist who would bite the dust in the first chapter. Because I'm a dim wanker when it comes to things I've just gotten into, I wasn't even 100% sure who the actual protagonist would've been instead.

For the longest time (and by that I mean like... 2 days or something) I thought Kaito would be that protagonist... yeah, I mean it. And boy, how wonderful that would've been... but we'll get to him next week.

At first, I didn't think too much of him, maybe his anime-protagonist personality was a bit of a bother (I'm not exactly the type to gush over anime protagonists... well, shonen animes, at least), but I can definitely say that I really love his design, especially that rad hair of his and his mesmerizing jacket that he can't properly wear to save his life.

After Kaede bit the dust, I was kind of pissed at Kaito for punching Shuichi just because he "didn't say anything to Monokuma!!11"... I mean, haven't you considered that Shuichi is maybe, probably, likely still pretty bummed about his relatively-loved one having chewed the debris? Never considered "trauma", my pink boy?

But I was able to overlook that one bit when Kaito has shown to be a great colleague and especially a wonderful leader. While he does portray the "shonen anime protagonist" type a bit too much for my liking (and even a bit is already too much for me), he makes it up for being one of the most believeable and influential characters I have ever seen in DudetheresaPimpleonmyass. His supportiveness, his determination, the guy reeks of positivity and he would do nothing more than smugly laugh in the face of despair.

He positively chews the scenery, so to say... although he does get beaten down for a while in Chapter 3 by my boy, Kiyockles.

But despite all this, for the most part I considered him to be "merely" another fairly good character like Asahina... until Chapter 4 happened and his performance there catapulted him straight into my "S Tiers".

Why? Because it's this chapter that treats him realistically and finally puts his faith in others into question in the most tragically wonderful way possible. I have several problems with Chapter 4 (and almost all of them can be pinned down on one certain character we'll get to soon), but Kaito and Gonta were easily the greatest characters in it.

When the reveal of the culprit happens, Kaito naturally denies every bit of it... but slowly and surely the evidence of Gonta's guilt becomes apparent and Kaito becomes increasingly desperate. No matter the pressure and the odds stacked against him, Kaito just won't believe it. It all culminates into him getting into an Argument Armament against Shuichi, which would also be the first time where a non-culprit takes part in that... his faith in Gonta is just that the fucking strong.

By the end of this chapter, Kaito's very philosophy has been knocked down a peg and he could do nothing more than punch Kokitchy... but because Kodaka really didn't want his sexboy Kokaine Grandma to lose his "coolness", Cocky just dodges that punch and... punches Kaito instead(?), and all he really gets in the way of "comeuppance" (something Kodaka never considered for Maki, for instance) is a lecture about friendship(?!) from Succi... uhh... sorry, my boys, I kinda got ahead of myself there... I should've saved that for next week and the second week after that (huh?).

Anyways... Kaito is devastated, so devastated that he burps out blood. Chapter Fart, END.

...uhh, but in all seriousness, the reason I loved Kaito's performance (good god, will I ever come up with another word than that? It sounds so wrong...) in that chapter is because the plot finally decides to put into question his entire "anime protagonist" shtick. Sure, he was quite a stubborn wanker, but it just worked so well. There's not too much I can say about Chapter 5 other than it was a wonderful sendoff for Kaito... definitely a much more tragic Loss than SDR2's emotionally manipulative Chapter 5 where it keeps pushing the tragedy of losing Chicken-Teriyaki in your dumb-looking face, and failed horribly in my eyes. Sure doesn't help that her execution was quite one-sided and unimpressive (although not as dull and retarded as her dust biting in DudethatAnimeissoretarded 3), while we have Kaito commit the DamnthosePandas equivalent of premature ejaculation in the middle of his execution like a baws (no one uses that meme anymore)... and if you couldn't tell, Stereokuma is quite bummed about that. Nice work there, Kite-O.

All in all, I consider Kaito to be one of the best written characters in the whole franchise, starting off as an optimistic egotistic deterministic goodlookistic shonen-anime-unfortunately-not-protagonist-unlike-that-boring-black-hole-of-a-protagonist-succi, continuing onward as a major source of positivity for his colleagues (I do love to use that word a lot, don't I?) and a major scenery chewer, up until his whole philosophy and quick faith in others comes under firetoilet paper come Chapter Fore, and finally a well-handled resolution to his entire character in Kapitel Fünf as opposed to the completely sappy "rahsuhlotion" of Chipotle in DatgamewithGundhaminit 2.

All that being said, a few complaints I do actually have towards Kaito come from sources almost completely outside of his control, one of them being Maki, Ay.Kay.Ay. Thot-Supreme. How the hell could a fulfilled character like Kaito ever easily fall into the sloppily written Maki? Essentially, their "reuhlotionship" boils down to dialogue such as this:

Kok: "Hey Maki Roll! Anyone ever told you that you're the most popular character ever?! Nah, just a lie!!111!"

Mak: "Do You Want To Die?™"

Kite: "Yeah, don't listen to that little bihh, Sausage Roll!!"

Moki Moki: "Do YOU Want To Die?™"

Cry Toast: "Yeah, that's mah gurl!"

If you can't tell, I totally didn't exaggerate this (then again, I'm not that far off either, amn't I?).

It's... not a good ship, if I'm honest. A great character and a shit character fit eachother about as well as lasagna and a stillborn chicken fetus.

But again, it doesn't really damage my perception to Kaito in general. He still may not be a truly eye-piercing jewel like Korekiyo or Gundham, but I highly (you knew I would be using that adjective sooner or later) appreciate his contribution to the game as a fully realized character and while he wasn't the protagonist, I feel like he's a shining example of how to write a great secondary character. He's such a shining secondary character in fact, that I completely forgot about the existence of someone called Keebo even more.

And next week, I shall tackle the complete opposite of great secondary character: A not great firstiary character. See you guys never again.

I find the nickname "Cry Toast" hilariously ironic, what with a certain community issue V3 had.

"The impossible is possible! All you gotta do is make it so!" -Kaito Momota, Luminary of the Stars

One of the best quotes of V3, very inspiring.

Or more like the proof of his hypocrisy.

Says it's not possible a dead could be brought back to life (w/c is reasonable, but not if he's spouting this quote).

"Doesn't matter if it's possible or not, cause I just say it's impossible" says Kaito in Chapter 4 when they were discussing whether Gonta was possible to be the culprit.

Now with Kaito, In my opinion. Out of all the casts in V3, Kaito is that one guy I would buy a drink for. Though in the beginning, I had some trust issues with him. I was thinking he was just playing the nice guy card and was really a big nutjob underneath it, it wasn't until his moment at the end of chapter one with Shuichi, and his motive video in chapter two I was starting to think of him less likely to have a reason to kill, cause in my eyes he, like a lot of people, say, is a very positive guy. Which are some of my more favorite types of characters in literature? Though my trust got thinned again during the second trial's investigation with him teaming up with Shuichi got to me (I had the feeling he was the killer cause of this, but it came back when after the trial).

During chapter three when the trust issues of Maki being an assassin was rising. I gained more liking and respect for our Luminary of The Stars when he brought her along to in my opinion thin the ice on her cold shoulder (spend the last FTE's on Kaito and Maki because of this). Then when it was revealed that Kaito had that disease, I knew he was not going to be one of the lucky ones to make it out. It was a matter of time of when he would die. Well, I got my answer at the end of chapter five, with possibly one of my favorite moments in Danganronpa history. His execution. Now hear me out why I say this, Kaito said he was not going to die the way Monokuma wanted, and he did by giving him the biggest middle finger to our favorite despair bear ever. By dying before the execution was finished. By the time Kaito made it to space, he finally had his dream came true, and in my opinion, he had his wish granted, and he just died in peace rather than despair.

So yeah, I like this guy, I hope it isn't a crime though.

if gonta is one of the more straightforward characters in v3, kaito is one of the most straightforward characters in the entire series (or is it haracters*? unclear). he's a relentlessly positive force, there to act as a sort of emotional batcatcher for the entire team. he has his flaws -- he's a braggart and a liar, hotheaded and naive, and i can't think of any main-ish character who's more utterly useless in solving the actual mysteries -- but we're meant to recognize that he's fundamentally goodhearted. after all, what series rewards relentless naivete like danganronpa? idiotically believing the absolute best in people even in the face of overwhelming contrary evidence is pretty much this franchise's calling card for a Good Person. and that's what kaito is: capital-G Good. he may be cowardly or impulsive from time to time, but he seeks justice and has no ulterior motives. kaito is exactly what he seems.

unfortunately, comma, that can be a bit boring! much like maki, i have no real issue with the guy, but i don't find him that compelling relative to the amount of the narrative he's afforded. he takes up a lot of space to do fairly predictable things i've seen before. the training sessions are cute at first, but there's a lot of them and they get quite samey -- kaito's an idealistic dreamer, maki's got a troubled past but a heart of gold, ad infinitum. his nebulous space disease is pretty standard 'generic tragic illness' fare and marks him for a tear-soaked exit well before his actual death. if we accept these people as the brainchildren of tsumugi, who's essentially a subpar fanfic writer, maki and kaito feel the most like her pet creations.

i was thinking during last week's gonta discussion that v3 is the series installment that tends most toward melodrama (with mixed results), and kaito has a lot of the trappings of a melodramatic hero. he's purely noble and well-intentioned, he has the charmingly mismatched love interest, he wins her over just in time to succumb to his mysterious wasting illness. his signalling himself as the protagonist to shuichi's meek sidekick feels like a piss-take at first, but it's actually kind of true. if we conceive of v3, as tsumugi's written it, as a pure melodrama, then yeah, kaito's the guy. if we don't, then he's likeable but cliche and a bit thinly written.

i don't know that i have much more to say about space bro, which is fine. they don't all need to be chekhov characters. i like the guy alright and i'm never upset that he's around. he's charming at turns and his positivity is useful in what's often a very heavy game. but in the context of a character analysis, he's also one of the game's most shallow and least innovative characters. like i said, he's exactly what he seems, and that's not very exciting in a franchise about solving mysteries.

Edited for further clarity.

Kaito is one of the best portrayed characters I've seen in the series, and sets a pretty interesting thought process for characters in gaming as a whole. His personality breaks the mold of the trend Danganronpa is normally known for following, his overall development feels complete, and by golly heck aside from Yoshiki from Corpse Party, he is the closest to a fictional character that could make me turn gay.

I don't even care for him when he was first teased, I initially thought he's just gonna be the Yasuhiro and Kazuichi counterpart of the game. While I'm a fan of Kazuichi, I strongly doubt Kaito could ever live up to his perfect balance of comic relief and best friend persona. I couldn't be any happier to be proven wrong.

Kaito is the game's Kyoko/Chiaki counterpart and honestly, he pummeled those two to the ground. Not only is his personality very in your face, but also just how actively supporting and practical he is, determined he is to keep Shuichi off of being an emo all day, and furthermore emphasizes how important it is to stay practical about thinking which is something most of the cast struggle to do considering their situation. With that said, he definitely seems like someone who has the answer to everything right? Noooo sir, he is not very smart, overly aggressive and is easily startled to the point where he just seems like a total wuss. He is as flawed a character as you can imagine, and that's why he's so awesome.

Kyoko and Chiaki carry the progression of the game on their shoulders, and a lot of the time, they don't really need to do it and as a result they draw too much attention away from their cast in favor of their wooden personalities. I don't hate them, but there are 16 characters in each of the games and I don't like that I have to focus on the characters that hardly try to stand out.

Kaito is kind of guilty of the same thing, he also drew too much attention from the cast, but unlike those two, he actually makes good use out of it. every chapter, he's always out doing something different and instead of focusing on progressing the trials, his character focuses on bonding the cast, more specifically Kaede, Shuichi and Maki.

On top of that, his motive to put his beliefs over the legitimacy of trial matters is something that challenges the game's theme of truth vs lies and instead of him winning with that mentality at hand, he actually learns from it and makes up for it through his cooperation with Kokichi in Chapter 5. His attitude is actually questioned and shown to be wrong throughout the game, something that still never happened with Kyoko and Chiaki even with DR3 being expansion titles to their head.

His execution is my favorite one in the whole series. It's nothing that flashy since it's just a parody of Jin's execution, but goddamn is it a great parody. Kaito died at his own will and not by Monokuma's hand, and it's not even that he's so perfect that he can get away with it, he very much earned the right to flip-off Monokuma after what he's been through.

Kaito is just overall really fun for me. He's cool, a joy to sit through, rightfully goddamn annoying, very meaningful to the progression of the story, and despite not being the most original character in the world, the way Kodaka used him in conjunction of the game's theme made him work exponentially well. You can say that you hate Kaito, you can call him a sexist bigot and an overrated Gary Stu who killed your experience with the game, but there is no way to deny the amount of thought an effort put into making this character more than just another Yasuhiro.

Long live the Luminary of the stars!

"One of the best characters in gaming" ladies and gentlemen, the reach of the century

Maybe I should rephrase that because people think I would say that he's perfect and all. I don't deny that he can be pretty wooden to some, but judging by the standards of breaking the mold of what a series would normally stick with, I think Kaito set a pretty grand example of it. That part of him is what made me say that.

EDIT: Wow is that comment a seesaw of emotions, I haven't seen my comment shift between positive and negative votes that often since my Gonta comment.

I think Kaito is a well written character, especially in how the game relentlessly taunts his flaws, but personally I like him a bit less because I almost always disagreed with him in the class trials. His blind faith really got on my nerves, especially in chapter 4, when it's supposed to.

One other thing I kinda dislike is how he's treated in chapter 5. I'm not a big fan of how he's focused on as the tragic sacrifice when it was Kokichi's plan and he was all but forced to cooperate with it. While the narrative does a good job of showcasing Kaito's flaws (as well as good qualities), the characters, particularly in chapter 5, aren't as good about it. (aside from Kokichi, obviously.) Just after chapter 4, where his ideology is thoroughly invalidated, it's forgotten about in large part, and all the characters love him again. For Maki, this makes sense, though I do have other issues with her in chapter 5. It's also in part because I felt Kokichi's death was more tragic, but I'll get into that in Kokichi's discussion. I have a lot of problems with the end of chapter 5, actually, even though I like it overall, but that's a whole other post.

I would write more about what I did like about Kaito, but most of it has already been said. He's inspiring and dedicated to helping his friends, and helping them help themselves. He's well written and has interesting interactions with each character. But my personal qualms with his attitude and actions take away a little from my appreciation of him as a character.

A lot of people have a lot to say about this guy. Cripes I'm gonna look like a jerk what with my... maybe 1-2 paragraphs, while everyone else is devoting towers of text to Kaito (Momota, Luminary of the Stars).

I actually thought he'd die first, killed by Maki (who would then skip out with the perk). That certainly didn't happen. Then he ended up becoming a bro and one of the only four characters I actively rooted for (before I started rooting for more).

He got a little annoying in Case 4, because as much as I didn't want Gonta to be guilty, there's no way the power of friendship could save him. But for the most part, I liked him.

He went out like a champ: Killing Kokichi and spiting Monokuma with his own death. As optimistically as I interpreted Gundham's execution, Monokuma still got what he wanted. But not this time.

One thing that I am curious about, though, is the nature of Kaito (Momota, Luminary of the Stars)'s condition. If they gave him that deadly disease for the sake of his arc, what would happen if he did win in the end? He wouldn't be long for this world anyway.

BOIIIII KAITO MOMOTA IS A GOOD HARACTER

Kaito

Eh, it's gonna be a tame one

Shuichi

Kaede

Kokichi

oh atua

Don't really had too much to say about Kaito but overall, a silly dude with an ambition to trust many than none. He wanted to believe in others or it'll just be a straightforward killing game of mistrust and deceit. There has been plenty of times when things were dark and there he was pulling people out of the dirty pond from their face. However, he was pretty much a dumb-dumb to the cast. Mainly, he has...a wonky connection with Maki (once again, thanks to Tsumugi/Kodaka/whoever wrote the script) and felt quite forced too. Shuichi was also effected by this as well, especially after Kaede's death. He claims to be his sidekick, then said sidekick had no choice to be logical in Case 4 and kick his pride to the curve, then proceed to get edgy around him after said case. Honestly, his best connection was with Kokichi since their ideas clash constantly with each other (even though Kokichi usually has the better of it, Kaito is more humane with his rationality) and they're always at each others heads for the littlest of things. But he did got a kill confirm off of him, such irony.

But yeah, ok character but weird dynamic to connect with the main characters.

Last week I mentioned that Gonta was my #4 character in the entire series. Only one V3 character eclipses him, and that's Kaito, who's my #2 for the series, behind only my flair. I think Kaito is so great.

To start off with, Kaito is just fun. While DR is complex, it's still, at heart, a video game, and video games are meant to be fun and enjoyed, and Kaito makes me have fun while playing the game. From the moment of Kaito's introduction when he introduces himself as the Luminary of the Stars I was entranced by him. I like having Kaito on my screen a lot, which is important because if I didn't fundamentally like the guy, I wouldn't be able to appreciate him as much.

On the outset, Kaito is very simple. He is a relentlessly positive force who believes in people and wants everyone else to believe in themselves and others as well. This is Kaito's main trait throughout the entire game, and it's the starting point for all of his relationships. For a character so ostensibly simple, Kaito has a wide variety of complex relationships, and I'd say that you can identify more intricacies of Kaito's relationships than you can with any DR character with the exception of the protagonists and maybe Kokichi. I'm not going to go into detail about his relationships because other people have already done so, but it can't be overstated how awesome Kaito's relationships are.

This complexity is due to the fact that Kaito naturally draws attention because of his insatiable ego and unwavering belief in people. At times Kaito barely seems like a real human being and more of a tour de force. While this leads to him having quite a few positive relationships, it leads to him having some negative ones as well, which is just as important, especially for someone like Kaito.

What I like most about Kaito is how the game treats him. It would be so easy to make Kaito this unwavering paragon of virtue because his primary traits are quite positive. A guy who wants everyone to believe in themselves is a good thing. A guy who advocates for trust is a good thing. A guy who will help the outcast is a good thing. Kaito is, for the most part, an awesome guy. But the game is willing to show that while Kaito's philosophy and primary character traits are mostly admirable, they are also deeply flawed when push comes to shove, and that's ok. There's a decent chunk of Trial 4 that's dedicated to Kokichi essentially mocking Kaito's philosophy. Through this section of the game it's easy to see that while Kaito is admirable in some ways, there is a limit to how far you can take it. In this way, he reminds me a lot of Nagito and Hajime, two characters who are so obsessed with something that is mostly good that it makes them really bad people at some points.

That's one of my favorite parts of DR as a whole, that it's not afraid to show the flaws in what are normally considered positive traits or ideals. You can argue that Kaito represents this part of DR better than anybody. When combined with how much fun he is on screen, how deep his relationships are with a variety of people, as well as an awesome conclusion to his arc, and you get a truly wonderful character.

Character Discussion #73 - Shuichi Saihara (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

CLICK TO SEE SPOILER
SPOILERtop 200 commentsshow all 286navigate by subscribe
sorted by: best

formatting helpcontent policy
save

Generally, I enjoy characters who make me think and doubt myself and my ideologies. It's a challenge to take up and it's plain and simple fun. And among those, I find simple characters like Shuichi to be a healing presence. Danganronpa has a habit of escalation and absurdism that more talkative, confident and colourful cast members generally end up taking the center stage, leaving normal and simple ones to the side. It reminds me of the quiet, hardworking students who weren't the ones to excitedly raise their hands when the teacher asks a question, hence getting sidelined and forgotten.

Shuichi's core arc might be that of 'being more confident', but I feel that's an understatement. He tackles a better theme which is more synonymous with finding a balance and constantly seeking your own answer than sticking to a pre-determined one. Think towards who are the more trusting, emotional characters of the game? Gonta, Kaito, Tenko. Contrarily, who would be the intelligent, cunning types? Kokichi, Kirumi, Korekiyo. Roughly speaking, the characters of the trust group seemingly lack deductive and rational intelligence and the characters of the intelligence group lack cohesive empathy and an emotional drive. I know there is some generalising going on but the point is that there are few characters who seem to show a balance between both qualities without making it seem like an actual struggle, which it is. Chapter 4 is demonstrative of how torn he feels, with Kaito asking him to believe, the same way he instilled a drive in him, and Kokichi speaking logically, something he needs to do as a part of his job. Balance of two extremes is pretty hard to reach in any activity and I believe Shuichi demonstrating that as a realistic struggle was very well done.

He isn't exempt of having problems with how he's written, of course. As a detective character, one of the changes I'd make to him would be an increase in the amount of internal thoughts on remarking about his observations (coupled with the emotially unnerving doubts). I don't blame the people who seem to think he's similar to every other protagonist on a surface level because. him being a detective, would be a great way to constantly observe and infer deductions from the events around him, which we rarely see. Granted, his emotional conflict overrules the rational side but his intelligence could be demonstrated more actively in daily life segments rather than it being conveniently low or even absent at times. Other point would be the lack of reaction to certain events around him, which is a problem with the cast in general but Shuichi being slighly selective about his empathy towards some members of the cast was a bit of a peeve to me.

That aside, for the most part, Shuichi wasn't even relatable to me. While it bothered me in the beginning because I didn't want to go for those training sessions with Kaito or Maki back then, I slowly came to appreciate how independent he was being from the player. At one point I realised just how much fun I had started having seeing him grow from hating his profession to learning to balance his conflicting ideologies and owning up to his duties. His design even ties in well with being pretty basic because he rejects the image of a detective and doesn't even enter his lab more than once or twice.

Conclusively, I would say Shuichi's paradoxical yet compelling arc speaks for itself simply because of how real and alive he feels by the end of the game; someone whose growth I was pretty proud of witnessing. His arc had the same satisfaction to me the way it is to water a plant everyday and see it grow. In the end, the plant grows the way you expect it to but it's still beautiful to witness.

P.S: I wrote a lot more about him here, if you're interested in checking it out. Thank you for reading.

Shuichi's core arc might be that of 'being more confident', but I feel that's an understatement. He tackles a better theme which is more synonymous with finding a balance and constantly seeking your own answer than sticking to a pre-determined one.

This is a nice callback to that heart to heart with Kaito in the hanger, about "not just reaching the truth, but something beyond it." Shuichi can't just be the compassionate and trusting sidekick that thinks with his heart that Kaito wants him to be. But he can't be the rational and sceptical partner Kokichi wants either. It's not even about finding the middle ground between them. It's about Shuichi choosing for himself which parts of each to adopt for himself, as well as discovering his own values to contribute as well to become the detective he wants to be.

I suggest that people read sparkofgingersticks's beautiful essay at the end of his post. I think it might be my favorite take on a character from the series.

Takes the words right out of my mouth.

You flatter me honestly, thank you so much!

Unfortunately, I've been too busy to take part in these character discussions, but I wanted to at least pop in for Saihara since 1) as the protagonist a dissertation on him will inevitably touch on the overall themes & mechanics of V3 and 2) he's a V3 character I like overall so this will be a more balanced view than if I posted a screed on Momota, Harukawa, or Ouma.

Part 1 - Saihara as Assistant Deuteragonist, Saihara as Protagonist

I think I may have more eloquently and succinctly summarized this in that recent Saihara vs Akamatsu shitpost here, but hey I spent 10 minutes on this, so damn if I'm not posting it in its entirety.

I've been waiting to finally, finally, finally play the actual detective character and not the normie protagonist with no investigative talents whatsoever being fed clues by the detective because the detective isn't allowed to be the protagonist & the lead the trials. So while I was on-board the Akamatsu-is-a-decoy-whose-going-to-kick-the-bucket train from the very beginning, I was rooting for Saihara to be the true protagonist as opposed to Ki-bo or Harukawa (the other leading potential protags at the time).

With Saihara-as-assistant in the prologue & chapter 1, there was an unprecedented level of handholding going on during investigations. Kirigiri is wary, stand-off-ish and holds heaps of information back (like sending Naegi to get whacked while exploring the hidden room as a way to test the mastermind). Komaeda is... Komaeda. He may or may not be on your side and isn't going to let things go easy for the protagonist. This functions as a way for the protag/player to figure things out for themselves while having a handy hint giver present in game.

Saihara, however, is more upfront, open to co-operation & group investigations from the start, and will literally guide the player-in-the-guise-of-Akamatsu step by step through finding the hidden mastermind door, putting the door under surveillance, the entire murder investigation that follows, and pretty much gives his deductions tied up in a pretty bow to Akamatsu without all the hoop jumping required by Kirigiri or Komaeda. He even does this when he briefly loses the role of protagonist to Ki-bo in chapter 6 and then begins flinging an avalanche of hints & "You tell them, Naegi's" to Ki-bo instead. Basically unless V3 was going to be Danganronpa Easy Mode Why-Are-You-Bothering-to-Show-Up-at-Investigations-&-Trials-Just-Let-Saihara-Do-It as he carries the protagonist on a damn palanquin through the trials, Saihara needed to be neutralized or upgraded to a protagonist role. (I said neutralized OR upgraded to protagonist, not both at the same time, goddammit Kodaka!!!)

I've seen it suggested that V3 could have had dual protagonists with Akamatsu in charge of School Life & Free Times while Saihara leads Deadly Life Investigations & Trials. That would actually be a pretty cool dynamic to explore in a game, but is not really thematically relevant at all compared to what we actually got.

V3 is a game about truth & lies. Akamatsu the originally advertised protagonist was a lie. The true protagonist is a detective who seeks the truth, who lies to find the truth, who is afraid of revealing the truth. His entire character arc screams the entire theme of the game and concludes with him pretty much head butting the truth and cramming it down the throats of the V3 audience. There is no other character as thematically relevant as Saihara to the game except perhaps for Ouma, who would have required a whole heap of tweaking to work as protagonist. (And I am all for a tweaked rival/antagonist character being the actual protagonist in a potential future game)

Saihara is also the first protagonist that had a character arc that spanned the entire game. He has the character arc based on insecurity and low self worth that you would think "normies" like Naegi and Hinata would have had in their respective games, but didn't. Naegi is a character that helps instigate change in others without really changing much himself as his is the tale of how to gain respect & friendship by being yourself. Hinata has a ton of doubts & insecurity in his past... which he forgets for 5/6ths of the game. He pretty much builds a reputation of being the sensible, dependable backbone of the group that even gets complimented for his confidence multiple times until he gets the rug yanked out from under him towards the end of the game. This is more of a fall(and then rebirth) of the competent protagonist storyline that lots of people seemingly wanted to assign to Akamatsu rather than Saihara's slowly fighting his way through his ocean of interconnected issues from the beginning.

Saihara's development is also interesting in that it's not the normal "through the power of friendship & HOPE I gain the the confidence to stand with my friends" arc. Unlike previous protags, he's not the heart of the group that gives everyone hope and he's not the steadfast & sensible one giving everyone support. He's the one who desperately needs emotional support & friendship from the very beginning, someone that the previous protags would be supporting instead just like Akamatsu had been. While the message that he can & should depend upon his friends gets repeated ad finitum, his arc is actually moving beyond the desperate need of that support, finding the confidence in himself to stand against his friends, and blow off the so-called "hope" of V3. (And I really wish the missing Scrum Debate from chapter 6 was there. It should have been Saihara solo vs the rest of the group to drive the point further home)

Since he was first presented as a side character/potential friendship fragment route, Saihara is also given a more delineated background, personality, & behavior quirks usually reserved for the side characters rather than the protagonists. He is the neglected son of a movie star & script writer rather than the kid of something-or-other-Akamatsu/Naegi/Hinata-can't-have-hatched-from-eggs, right? Like the side characters, he has specific events in his back history that influence his current character (i.e. the alligator case being one of the few things he did as a detective that he enjoyed, the murder case sending his previous insecurities into full blown Imposter syndrome).

In comparison, we get Maizono giving the story about Naegi rescuing a crane at school which Naegi hardly remembers... and that is pretty much it for background specifics to the previous protagonists including Akamatsu. (At least Hinata's history of being so insecure that he allowed Hope's Peak to basically lobotomize him was touched upon in Danganronpa 3 as ham fistedly as it was portrayed)

Saihara's personality isn't some variation of "normal", he is incredibly emotionally fragile and starts the game in the full blown throes of Imposter syndrome. He was distinct and "weak" enough that the game creators were worried he'd end up being incredibly unpopular due to the player's inability to easily self insert into him. (Well, at least they were completely off with the former worry as he & Ouma have reached Komaeda levels in popularity). Despite that he comes with strong already set opinions & preferences that the player can't influence (detecting sucks, he sucks, and I really wish he didn't have such a hard-on for the whole stereotypical shonen optimism thing represented by Momota but it makes sense for his personality). Unlike the previous protags, the sane man in the group commenting on the craziness while standing to the side is actually Shirogane. While Saihara is generally logical as befitting a detective, he's also more apt to jump in and join the wackiness like pretending to be a decrepit old man so that Ki-bo can practice caregiving on him. (Saihara's idea BTW, not Ki-bo's)

Saihara is pretty much a study in subtle contrasts, contradictions, and ambivalence. He's the truth seeker afraid of the truth and the voice of logic & reason that really, really wants to believe full heartedly in blind faith, optimism, and power of friendship. But as much as he may want to fully buy in, he can't, because as much as he may want to deny it, he is a detective at heart. If Ouma & Momota represent the extremes of logic & belief and the dangers inherit in both of them, Saihara by continuously straddling that line represents the happy medium. (Or rather the anguished, tortured by self doubt, horribly conflicted medium)

Generally gentle, caring, and the most sensitive of all the protagonists, he also has the most ominous edge of all of them. Unlike Naegi he isn't sweetness & light all the way through, he's had something dark & sharp lurking within him all along. He also first comes across as pure & innocent, but oh boy is he not.

It's generally suppressed under layers of insecurity, but the steel comes out when he finally loses his temper. It's that part of him that that comes to the fore and takes charge during the finale of chapter 6 where this did not come out of no where. And those other brief instances where he allows it to shine through tend to startle the hell out of the other characters. (Iruma growing meek & commenting on his cold eyes, Angie thinks it's proposal worthy, Akamatsu going "wait, what was that?").

Hinata can be blunt & snarky, Akamatsu finally loses her temper & insults Iruma, Naegi has saintlike patience, so Saihara is pretty much the only protag that has player operated options to lash out at the other students during their FTEs (mostly with Iruma, Chabashira, Angie, Ouma, and Momota too although it seems from Momota's reaction that he was purposefully trying to trigger that in Saihara).

I finally read your entire post(s) and they're pretty much on point. I would be lying if I said that it wouldn't be cool seeing Shuichi being more proactive outside of deadly life after chapter 1 but I can understand why they didn't do that regarding both the in game reason and a meta reason.

From an in-game perspective: Shuichi certainly felt like a mess after Kaede's death due to that I think it's understandable that he'd subconsciously listen to Monokuma's warnings and stopped trying to meddle in as much as he tried to in chapter 1. He gets better as the game progresses but I don't think he gets over his fear of being proactive until chapter 5 ends and he fully strenghtens his resolve by promising Monokuma that he'd end the game.

From a meta perspective: Not only would a proactive Shuichi logically end the game quicker if he found out about the bathroom passage (and by that point we'd have no game) but also there is the question of pacing. FTE events are important to make the player feel more attached to characters since not all of them have the opportunity of fully shining in the main story itself, I feel like cutting some free-time events for some random investigative routine would drag down the pacing of the game. I can see that working in a novel though.

It's understandable that Saihara would be gun shy of gunning straight for the mastermind again after what happened in chapter 1, but none of the investigative options I mentioned (except for keeping an eye on the mastermind door which is just basic common sense & which wouldn't actually accomplish anything since Shirogane wouldn't be using that door to access the mastermind room in the first place) would be doing that. I specifically chose options that would not lead to Saihara discovering the bathroom door or blowing wide open the case so that the game ends early. Even the mapping the campus by hand option would miss the secret entrance in the girl's bathroom if Saihara continued to let a girl be in charge of investigating that bathroom (especially if that girl was Shirogane, which could be another clue in chapter 6).

Considering that Monokuma actually encourages the student's exploration of the campus and there isn't even a "no breaking into locked doors" or "no destroying campus property" rule like in DR or SDR2, the "investigate ways to escape" options in particular would be something completely safe to do. The longer the students are stuck there, the more terrible things Saihara has to investigate & the more people he has to implicate as murderers, so you'd think he'd be investigating ways to escape the situation like crazy. That would even be a form of escapism in its own-- instead of confronting the reality of the mastermind being one of them, he just keeps trying to run away, but at least he'd be doing so in a method befitting a detective & in ways that could benefit the other students too.

His inner monologue during Daily Life even sounds like this is exactly what he's doing ("keep my promise to Akamatsu, "use my skills as a detective to save everyone") but that somehow the game just skips right over what he'd actually be doing. And at no point does Saihara ever call himself out and go "Wait, I've been saying I'd use my skills as a detective to save everyone, but I actually haven't been doing anything to help stop this situation at all!" like he would if he was just mentally lying to himself from chapters 2 - 5. Chapter 6 marks him finally going back to gunning for the mastermind again, but that doesn't mean he can't do literally nothing else until that happens. Ending the killing game is different than escaping the killing game.

These potential investigative segments with other characters wouldn't be taking the place of the FTEs any more than Saihara & Akamatsu's investigations took the place of Akamatsu's FTEs in chapter 1, or the forced Momota & Harukawa training scenes took the place of Saihara's FTEs, or Souda & Nidai ambushing Komaeda & tying him up took the place of Hinata's FTEs. The entire point to having these investigations with side characters would be to give them more focus & development than they got in the game (hence why I don't suggest Momota or Harukawa joining in any of these scenarios).

Fair enough, I still don't completely agree with you but I can see where you are coming from.

Souda & Nidai ambushing Komaeda & tying him up took the place of Hinata's FTEs

So is your idea to have Shuichi do something to cause similar events to for example the conversation Hinata and Komaeda have when he goes to feed him?

Part 2 - Saihara as Detective

His intelligence, deductive skills, and meticulousness makes him a perfect fit as a detective, his sensitivity, emotional fragility, openness, and kindness to the point where he has trouble leveling accusations & confronting the truth he has found make him entirely inappropriate. The manifestation of his skill is contrary to his own innate nature. His existence as a SHSL is paradoxical.

Saihara's opinion on detective work is dark, but pretty realistic compared to the flamboyant & flashy mental images people have of the job. It's hard, tiresome, repetitive, and dirty work that gets little praise and exposes the detective to the worse sides of people. A necessary evil.

Saihara's emotional break down with Momota in chapter 2 isn't just about him feeling like a failure as a detective whose deductions lead to Akamatsu & Amami's deaths, but that at its core is something he never wanted to do and doing it keeps showing him terrible things he never wanted to see. It's not an issue that can be solved by patting Saihara on the head and telling him he's a good detective.

Due to wanting to be helpful and not a burden (tying back to his neglected upbringing that started off the chain of insecurity), he starts assisting the uncle he's been pawned off unto, gets pigeonholed into the role of detective, goes full blown Imposter syndrome stuck-in-this-lie when the Ultimate Initiative declares him a SHSL, and then suddenly everyone's lives are depending on him being a detective in this killing game. Then the V3 cast (especially Harukawa who as his "friend" should really know better) keeps going on about how Saihara is only reliable when he is investigating which just winds up his complex even more.

He's only acceptable to the people around him when he's doing something that he hates.

And so even though Saihara gets the confidence in his individual skills as a detective, the courage to confront the harsh truth without flinching, and knows how to balance his emotions & weaknesses appropriately so they no longer impact his deductive reasoning, his core dilemma doesn't really get resolved by the end as I don't see any indication of him actually enjoying the role of detective a whit more now than when he started off. Had the necessity of it pounded into him even more, yes, but actually enjoying it, not so much. I guess it depends on the true reality of the real world out there if he has to continue in that role or not.

Ironic that he gets 11037's English VA, another SHSL whose a prodigy at a talent that he dislikes. Also ironic if the "normie" Saihara that Shirogane showed them was actually the truth and really loved the idea of being a detective.

Saihara as Apprentice / Saihara as SHSL

First of all, some overall things regarding Saihara as a detective that I notice keep getting brought up, a lot of which hinges on what Saihara says about himself. Yet Saihara is the absolute worst person to be an unbiased judge of his own talent. This gets brought up in the game itself (ie during Toujou's free time she outright states that he is too self deprecating and disparages his own talent which everyone else can plainly see). When it comes to Saihara and his detective skills, you have to go by what he does and not what he says.

Saihara repeatedly states that he is only an apprentice, that he solved his big murder case by chance, that the Ultimate Initiative chose him based on that one case alone. He also gets flat out called out as being wrong and that what he is saying as impossible by multiple characters.

Saihara says that he is only an apprentice that helps his uncle, the true detective. Yet he takes on his own solo cases. The alligator case that he mentions to Akamatsu was his first solo case. The murder case that he regrets solving (and which Akamatsu & other characters point out would have been impossible to solve "accidentally" as he keeps claiming) is another. Even if it was the murder case that brought him to the attention of the Ultimate Initiative, by that point he already had a body of detective work behind him, both cases where he assisted his uncle and cases that he solved solo.

Considering he is still a relative newbie, it wouldn't be a body of work comparable to Kirigiri (or whatever Kirigiri allowed Hope's Peak to know of her work since her family tends to hide their contributions from the public), but it did exist and as it was also pointed out, the other students were not chosen as SHSL based on one incident alone, so why would Saihara be the exception?

And of course there's the big blinking not-as-good-as-Kirigiri moment where he trusts Akamatsu to investigate the girl's bathroom instead of busting in and investigating it himself. Generally his being a more co-operative & group orientated detective is one element that makes him superior to Kirigiri during class trials, but that one really bit him (and Akamatsu) in the posterior.

Saihara During Deadly Life

I have problems with the writing in V3 as a whole which gets reflected unto Saihara as the protagonist of V3, but as the long awaited detective protag I have few complaints with the way he functions during investigations & trials in the Deadly Life portion. There are still the old complaints of -- why the hell is no one wearing gloves during the investigations & instead grabbing the evidence with their BARE HANDS, why is no one dusting for fingerprints, seriously all it takes is some powdery substance & tape *takes a deep breath* but these are quibbles with Danganronpa investigations as a whole, not with Saihara in particular.

So I find it particularly puzzling how often it gets expressed that Saihara is a poor detective, that Saihara does not come across as any better at investigations & trials than Naegi or Hinata, that Ouma of all people is supposedly a better detective and is actually the detective character feeding clues to Saihara in V3(wat).

I had that last one "spoiled" to me when I posted on the original Chapter 1 reactions thread about how excited I was to finally play as the detective leading the trial. So I took notes while playing on who was doing exactly what during trials & investigations. The contributions of Ouma in the main route where Saihara isn't lying like an idiot are...

Trial 1 : Zilch
Trial 2 : Ropeway (And he gets called out by Saihara for making Saihara say it instead of saying it himself)
Trial 3 : Magic Circle leading to the seesaw, Angie going for Candles (+ investigated the adjacent rooms thus helping free Yumeno of suspicion, making this by far the most helpful Ouma is during a trial)
Trial 4: He's the freaking mastermind who knows everything & yet couldn't convince anyone except Saihara
Saihara literally carries everything else. Meanwhile Ouma sends the trials down a bunch of time wasting dead ends such as Harukawa being the 2nd trial's culprit and that entire "suspect ranger" thing where only people who had access to Angie's lab could speak up in the 3rd trial.

And here it is, the clutch, Saihara as SHSL Detective during the actual class investigations & trials. The thing is even though Saihara is the current protag whose POV the player is seeing through, the game is not going to allow Saihara to explicitly state his correct deductions, suspicions, or exactly how he has solved an aspect of the case during the investigation phase because that would spoil that plot point to players who have not yet caught on themselves.

The main tell that gets repeated over and over can be pretty subtle. In comparison, when Naegi & Hinata find a damning clue versus Saihara.

Naegi & Hinata: What could this mean?

Saihara: Then that means this...

When Saihara has figured something out that will later become a plot point during the trial his thoughts will cut off/trail off. That line of thought will then never come up again until the moment in the trial when the player is supposed to win the mini-game that reveals the deduction to the rest of the class.

Since the player is often not privy to Saihara's deductions during the investigations due to SPOILERS, another way to tell when Saihara has actually figured something out is the same way a player can tell that a side character has figured something out... by their outer reactions alone.

Compare assistant Saihara at the beginning of the chapter 1 trial who strikes his thinking pose, ". . ."s, has the camera zoom in on his face, and then he clams up for the first half of the trial upon realizing that Akamatsu has to be the culprit vs protagonist Saihara from chapter 6 who ". . ."s and strikes his I'm-dying-inside pose when Shirogane (amongst all the other characters cheering) says that trial 6 will be different because everyone can work together since there is no culprit among them during this trial.

Unlike characters like Ouma or Iruma who try to solve things by flinging shit about and seeing what sticks, Saihara will methodically go through every option and systematically prove or disprove it, knock down every objection, and go through every potential avenue & possible theory, even when he already has a particular suspect or deduction in mind from the beginning.

This is why it takes 5 billion years for him to get around to accusing Shirogane even though he suspected she was the real killer of Amami and thus the most likely mastermind ever since seeing the secret tunnel to the mastermind's room (and thus started acting weird around her from that point forward)

Part of it is simply because Saihara is a good detective who doesn't jump to conclusions & shows the level of attention to detail that properly investigating a murder would require and part of it is because V3 trials are bloated as hell and often repetitiously force the player to repeat an answer in a mini-game that Saihara has already outright stated (I'm looking at you, Psyche Taxi!) And while we're talking about fail trial mechanics...

Part 3 - Overflow Topics

The Lie Mechanic

Man, this had so much potential. As Ouma points out in trial 2, it's a tactic for detectives and their ilk to try and lead a suspect into incriminating themselves by being less than truthful about the current known facts of a case.

Unfortunately in V3 pretty much all the potential back route lies and -- horrifying enough some of the mandatory ones -- are not required to progress the trial in the least. In all the skippable lie segments, Saihara already has access to enough clues to move forward with the trial using the truth & actual clues (and by his actions and thoughts already knows this!), yet the player can force him to lie anyway and... well, basically the back routes come across like extended wrong choice sequences from Non-stop Debates. Fun to look at, gives some nice interaction with side characters, but basically makes the protagonist look like an idiot.

Since these are "back routes", I'm assuming the main route using the actual evidence is canon, and thus Saihara is not randomly acting like a dingus -- DID YOU FORGET YOU CAN'T SEE WHILE USING YOUR EYE LIGHTS, KI-BO?! I'M SURE IRUMA FORGOT TOO! -- during the trials.

Deadly Life Improvements

Anyway, while I think Saihara's detective skills came across fine enough during Deadly Life, that is obviously not a universal opinion. While making the point where Saihara's thoughts cut off so as not to spoil the player more explicit could work (hell, make the "Got it!" image flash behind him), it might be more interesting if some of the game play elements are brought out of the bloated trial segments and done during the investigations when Saihara actually first came to the realization. That might cut down on the trial mini-games repeating exactly what had literally just been stated 2 seconds ago during the trial.

Or better yet, make it impossible to investigate all portions of the crime scene before the trial is called. This would be similar to trial 3 where Saihara & Harukawa investigated underneath the floor of the crime scene while Ouma investigated the rooms to either side with no time for the groups to switch position and see what the other had investigated. Only this time Ouma doesn't even tell them what he found so that info doesn't become available until the trial itself. That way even if Saihara explicitly spells out his suspicions and deductions during the investigation, he is running on only half info, and thus wouldn't be overly spoiling any plot points.

This would have the added bonus of letting other characters contribute more to the trials, which is especially necessary once all the characters who were actually good at this investigating & trial thing (Amami, Akamatsu, Hoshi, Toujou, Shinguuji) systemically killed each other off at the beginning of the game leaving the deadweight behind.

Character Design

This should have been discussed at the end of Part 1 instead, but didn't fit due to character limits.

Since this idea of subtle contrasts is carried over into his character design, the version with the hat is pretty much my favorite design out of all Danganronpa characters. Teal hair so dark it looks black. Subtle striping across his suit (both the dark portions & the light trim) that it also looks solid black from the distance. Eyes too warm to be plain gray (apparently it's something akin to gambogeish gray)

How his design elements keep straddling the line of in-between and how it looks plain from the distance but so much more intricate up close really suits Saihara. Even how his design was originally meant to be androgynous and walking the line between female & male fits with the theme of ambivalence.

Even though Saihara doesn't like the beret as a gift because it looks like a detective's hat (the boy has issues), his own cap gives him a distinctive detective vibe. I know removing the hat is a symbolic character growth thing, but as he didn't magically grow confident after removing it at Akamatsu's death, I think it would have made sense that he continued to wear it whenever he was feeling particularly insecure (so that the moments when he takes it off have more poignancy behind them). Then he could ditch it completely at Momota's death to mirror his first taking it off in honor of Akamatsu.

Part 4 - Saihara During School Life

Oh boy, here we go. Chapter 1 of V3 is one of my most favorite chapters in all of Danganronpa and it is pretty much entirely because of Saihara.

Instead of spinning their wheels and just flailing around investigating the open areas of the school and networking with the other trapped students during Chapter 1's Daily Life, we found the damn door to the mastermind's lair because of Saihara. We co-opt another student's talent (thanks Iruma) and set up the first student run secret surveillance because of Saihara. We go set up a (non-deadly) booby trap & go gunning straight for the mastermind in chapter flipping 1 because of Saihara. Even Akamatsu admits that everything they accomplished in chapter 1 was because of Saihara.

Then he gets promoted to protagonist at the end of chapter 1 and all his pro-activity dies a terrible death inside the protagonist box because the protagonist is only allowed to investigate newly opened sections of the school, free time with other students, and then investigate murders & class trials. Nothing else until chapter 6. No investigating ways to escape (which would be a far safer topic to investigate than murders for a detective afraid of what he might find), no investigating the greater mysteries of the school until chapter freaking 6.

So even though his characterization in chapter 1 says otherwise, even though he promised Akamatsu otherwise, even though his own damned inner monologue goes on and on during Daily Life about how he's going to use his detective skills to try and save everyone... Saihara can't do jack shit except get automatically booted into Free Time.

This may have been expected for Naegi & Akamatsu who had detective partners running around investigating in the background and whose own strengths lie in their interactions with others, this may be acceptable for Hinata who has no investigative background himself, but this (amongst a crap ton of repeatedly repeated tropes) shows how painfully in a rut the writing of Danganronpa has become. It's completely squandering the chance to show how a detective protagonist like Saihara would play differently from a morale-boosting & charismatic protagonist like Naegi & Akamatsu.

At least the class shoving all the keys to the potential newly opened areas on him makes sense considering Saihara is the detective. That the students are just hanging around the spots that are going to be opened like they knew about them all along and were just waiting for Saihara to catch up is just plain weird though. Better if they walked through the halls with Saihara (like how Saihara & Akamatsu originally investigated together) and had actual interactions with each other. But that would be different from the students waiting around the newly opened sections in DR & SDR2 and we can't have that.

When I complained about this is the initial chapter reaction posts I was told that there was literally nothing else for Saihara to investigate or do during these segments. The V3 Daily Life segments are sparse compared to their SDR2 counterparts. Off the top of my head, this is what Saihara could be doing during them (like his own inner monologue says he's going to do)...

While investigating, make a hand-drawn map of the campus with people good at drawing or taking notes (Angie, Toujou etc). There's no reason to trust the electronic map provided by Monokuma and comparing the actual inner & outer dimensions of the buildings should indicate where hidden rooms & sections will later appear.
Go with Ouma and lock pick your way into Amami's room to see if there's anything there that might shed light on the Ultimate Hunt or whatever the hell Amami might have remembered
Try and dig a tunnel underneath the surrounding fence with people good at digging (Gonta, Chabashira??) to see if an underground escape is possible
The Monokumarz mentioned that the fence can actually be scaled during the prologue but there's never any follow-up to this. Have Gonta give Saihara (& Yumeno?) a piggy-back ride up as far as the fence can be climbed to see what's viewable from up there. Hoshi would also be a good candidate for being athletic enough to climb up, but he's not giving anyone any piggyback rides.
After Gonta mentions the stars looking different, search the library with Shinguuji & Shirogane for star maps that may indicate where on Earth the students may have been taken.
Have Iruma make more surveillance cameras. Set them up in likely spots that might help prevent murders (such as a hidden camera in the entrance way to the dorms to see who might sneak out at night as an alternate option to the Student Council locking everyone in at night). Added bonus points if Ouma commandeers one of Saihara's cameras for his entire idiot plot in chapter 5. Unlike Kirigiri who was a homicide detective, Saihara was a private eye who specialized in surveillance & tracking. They need to double down & take advantage of these differences.
Have Iruma, Gonta, Ki-bo, anyone good with machines or with good eyesight help disassemble one of the campus broadcast screens to see if it has any hidden cameras (the potential of hidden cameras in them gets mentioned every time Saihara freaking looks at them)
Take handwriting samples of everyone and compare them to the ever-changing graffiti in the courtyard (I'm sure Ouma can fake his handwriting to avoid immediate detection)
Saihara, you're a detective. You KNOW there is more than 1 kind of "bug". With Gonta & a bunch of others, go looking for "bugs" with microscopes & magnifying glasses. Have Iruma make Saihara an ultimate magnifying glass for this. Have Ouma one-up Saihara with the bugvac invention.
Keep investigating the hidden mastermind door with literally anyone. ANYONE AT ALL. This includes going with Ouma to try that keycard that he swiped because that is the screamingly obvious option.
Having these mandatory investigation segments with different characters would not only help spread the focus around (and thus help alleviate some of the feeling of having Momota & Harukawa shoved down the player's throats), would help develop some of the side characters further before they inevitably kick the bucket (& would have characters interact with each other that might normally not which is severely lacking in V3), plus would help with the complaint that Saihara didn't interact (and thus didn't seem to give a crap about) any characters besides Akamatsu/Momota/Harukawa. (And boy, Gonta sure comes in handy during a lot of these potential investigations, doesn't he?)

This is one aspect where Ouma surpasses Saihara. Since he is not the protagonist, Ouma is actually allowed to do crap during Daily Life. His hoarding of a random assortment of clues that Saihara originally gathered for the trials may not have accomplished much of anything (until the library photograph with Amami gets brought up again in the chapter 6 trial after Ouma's death) and he may have completely pissed away all his resources that he gathered (seriously electrobombs, electrohammers, and a freaking remote that can control the Exisals and he does THAT with them), but at least he was doing something outside of the trial investigations.

Some of the "revelations" during chapter 6 could even be moved a few chapters forward without having too much of an effect on the plot (such as the existence of bug-sized cameras which for the most part the students really can't do jack about or the existence of the pod room would be more of a red herring if it was discovered before the literal last minute in chapter 6).

You could even just tweak Saihara's Free Time events with others to give them more of an investigative bent. Like Iruma reveals she has a damn transporter in one of her FTEs. Yeah, it only teleports underwear, but have her reverse the polarity and teleport underwear with "Help! We're being kept captive in a murder game!" messages as far outside of the school fence as possible. Sure, it wouldn't really help anything since they're actually inside a huge dome and the outside world already knows they're there, but it would be freaking hilarious. (And hey, canon use for all that underwear Saihara has been collecting)

In conclusion: I really like the concept of Saihara. He has some really great moments particularly in chapters 1 & 6. Not only did he carry the investigations & trials, he ended up solely carrying my own interest through the game after literally every other single other character I liked killed each other off in the first chapters. After the clusterfuck that was Danganronpa 3, Saihara has my eternal love for being the protagonist who finally stands up and goes "screw you hope & despair!" but not as much love as he would have had if it was chapter 1 Saihara that appeared throughout the entire game.

The failures in his characterization are failures in the writing of the game overall. He had the potential to be my ultimate Danganronpa favorite, but not with the way V3 ended up being written. I would really have liked to have seen another writer's take on Saihara or maybe an editor with a stronger hand.

Shuichi is probably my favourite protagonist, mostly cause I can relate to him at the start of the game. I almost constantly wear my hood like how he wore his hat so it was more awesome to me when he managed to shed his hat. Gave me a great first impression so it became hard to dislike him no matter what he did after that.

I much preferred the way he interacted with the other characters, it is hard for me to exactly pin point what it was about the way he interacted with them but I guess it felt more personal, his relationship with Ryoma in his FTE's was probably my favourite with his Gonta interactions in chapter 4 being top notch.

I think Shuichi is a character after my heart, someone who I feel I can resonate with more than most can, I didn't mind the switch to Shuichi from Kaede cause it was very beneficial for me. I don't know how quality his character actually is cause I probably have a bias for him that most don't have.

[deleted]

best post. you taught me everything about character development thank u. this is why my fav character from drv3 is monokid.

[deleted]

A Diatribe on the Metaphysical Implications of Having a "Rock Hard Rager"

since im an internet pleb with no knowledge and understanding of anything in games, i will mindlessly rely on you to tell me what i should feel about a character! please do type a big long thing so i can delude myself to think i'm reading something smart.

I never thought i would hear one character be simultaneously compared to Hermione, Natsuki, and Walter White.

Thanks for that Breaking Bad spoiler. (I watched the series but just saying for other who didn't). You can spoiler tag by how it's indicated in the sidebar to avoid this in the future.

Also while we're at it : Breaking Bad spoiler

[deleted]

Oh, then I won't go in further details if you don't have any idea what is the spoiler you just put there (I just reread and realized the shitpost lmao xD)

The title is actually an expression : to break bad

And there is a reason for why he starts doing that.

you do realize they're not serious, right

I noticed when reading again, I was tired at the time （；￣ェ￣）

b-b-but that's the joke..........

Walt's arc is absolutely related to confidence. It's done very well, but it's part of it from the first episode to the last

Dunno really, I always assumed he got what it takes to do things from how I interpreted it (in the pilot I felt he had this kinda "dark side" to him already).

He did have a lot of it in him, but a big point of the show is that Walt has always felt like he's underachieved and has grown resentment for it

Even the first episode makes the point of showing that his marriage is pretty vanilla and he just gets a sad handjob from his wife on his birthday. But after he breaks bad he bangs her in such a way that's so surprising to her she doesn't even recognize him (not literally)

Okay so let's get this out of the way first.

I do not understand people who define Shuichi by saying he has "confidence problems", or even implying that it would make him a carbon copy of previous protagonists.

A lack of confidence was never even a component of Makoto's character. He felt a little out of place compared to some of the more extreme personalities on display, but never did he feel inadequate or felt like he didn't measure up to them. If ever he did, those moments are few and far between. He's a bit of a doormat, but can stand up for himself if pushed enough.

Hajime's lack of confidence in himself was definitely more important to his personality, but it was never really pronounced in the game until Chapter 4. Up to that point, he had been acting under the assumption that he had a talent but just didn't know what it was, and while that did certainly bother him, he didn't let it affect his personality or how he did things. Heck, even after finding out he's just a reserve course student, it does shake him pretty heavily, but it doesn't significantly influence how he acts on the surface.

Shuichi, right when you first meet him, is already immediately different from them. He's meek, soft-spoken, clearly fidgety and anxious. Already he's carrying himself much more differently than the previous two. If anything he has a bit more in common with Komaru than he does either of the others. But okay, if you want, we can go with the assumption that he does have confidence problems, because you certainly can argue that he does, even if it's little more than a byproduct of his actual core issues.

Throughout the majority of Chapter 1, while there are moments where he takes initiative, such as informing Kaede about the door hidden behind the bookcase and coming up with the entire plan of taking a photo of the mastermind, and he does bring it up his own opinions and conclusions from time to time, it's ultimately Kaede who's taking direct action. He puts himself down quite a bit and he's always trying to correct people's high expectations of him.

Kaede isn't blind, so when she questions him about this, he explains that his anxiety is due to a murder case that he solved. At first justice seemed to have been delivered, but what came after shook him. Finding out that the killer acted in revenge for the death of a loved one was bad enough, but for said criminal to be so incredibly hostile and judgmental for someone essentially doing his job is more than a little affecting.

So, Shuichi's problem isn't something so simple as a lack of confidence. It's more a lack of courage in pursuing the truth. He's afraid that, should the truth turn out to be something disagreeable or unpleasant, or even just flat-out wrong, he'll be responsible for the repercussions of it, and that he'll be at fault for uncovering it. Most of all, he's afraid of others blaming him as well. This is why he's always trying to set everyone's expectations of him low, merely referring himself as "just an apprentice." If everyone doesn't think much of him to begin with, no one will be disappointed in him should he set them toward a wrong or harsh conclusion. I think Shuichi is actually pretty sure of his investigative prowess and abilities, he's just afraid of where those abilities will lead him and the others too. When the other characters are telling him to be more confident, they aren't telling him that he's a better detective than he thinks he is, Shuichi already knows he's pretty good, they're telling him that he shouldn't feel responsible for what the truth is, and that he should just follow what his heart tells him and not stress out so much over any potential consequences.

Unfortunately, Kaede's words don't really help prepare him for having to expose her as the (supposed) first murderer, but he does try to take her words to heart and start acting with a little more resolve than before. And he starts by removing his hat, which he wore to limit eye contact with other people. Small steps!

His relationship with Kaito does help alleviate Shuichi's troubles considerably more. Getting to open up to someone who's so loud and charismatic, Kaito being someone Shuichi can lean on and depend on during times when he's questioning himself, things start to heal a little bit. Kaito tells him to his face that Shuichi shares none of the blame in the actions Kaede decided on her own to take, nor should he feel responsible for her getting executed (I think this is probably a good response to those who say that Kaede was just Shuichi's waifu who only existed to die for him, implying that Kaede's entire motivation was Shuichi or that she didn't have her own agency in this situation). This, coupled with some stress-venting exercise, does serve to make things easier for Shuichi going forward. During the 2nd trial, when Shuichi freezes up and is hesitant to act, Kaito gives him the encouragement he needs. After Kirumi is revealed as the Ryoma's killer and her motive comes to light, Shuichi is wondering if what he did was right yet again, only for Kaito to quickly shut that line of thinking down. And there don't seem to be any problems with unmasking Kiyo, for, er, obvious reasons.

Things take a…sharp turn starting at Chapter 4, when for the second time, Shuichi is confronted with a very ugly truth in the form of Gonta being the culprit, and his blossoming determination takes a hard hit in the face of it, causing a strain with his friendship with Kaito. He's been touched by Kaito's unwavering faith in other people this whole time and has partly shared those sentiments, even if he hasn't forgotten how important it is to take a logical method to things, but seeing Kaito's beliefs get so coldly crushed, while he doesn't necessarily lose respect for Kaito, this does force him to reexamine what the proper approach is. He's been using Kaito as a crutch, and if it weren't for Kokichi's intervention, they likely would've all died because of it. Shuichi isn't quite willing to say that he was wrong for uncovering the truth (more small steps!) because it was his only option, but he nonetheless wishes to mend things between him and Kaito. Thankfully, Kaito does so of his own accord and admits to what a baby he's been in the last part of the trial. Shuichi is able to separate himself from Kaito's influence and really distinguish himself, but their relationship still ends on a very positive note. Besides, you know, the whole getting executed thing.

Things progress rather smoothly for him throughout the majority of Chapter 6. I quite like how Shuichi is now more than happy to call Monokuma out on shit when before he probably would've just sulked in the corner about it.

But uh, that changes dramatically when FICTION rears it's ugly head. Needless to say, Shuichi doesn't take it well and is about to lose his damn mind until Keebo intervenes. At first, things go how you would expect them to, until Shuichi utterly dismantles the entire thematic concept of Danganronpa by claiming that hope and despair are equally toxic, neither having done nothing but enable this twisted system to continue, claiming possibly hundreds of lives in the process for the detached amusement of an outside audience. As someone who mostly remained impartial to the clash of ideals that Kaito and Kokichi had (although that didn't stop either of those two from trying to continuously pull Shuichi to their side, with varying results), it makes sense that he'd be the one to remain impartial to the entire hope and despair conflict, outright wishing to see both destroyed to make sure that what happens can never truly be repeated. You can really feel the raw anger and hate that he feels. While Makoto and Hajime were obviously pissed at Junko for the deaths she caused and the chaos she created, Shuichi holds total contempt and disgust not just for the mastermind, but also for the people running this show, as well as the entire outside world for both not really giving a shit about their deaths and supporting this madness. While before he was afraid of the harsh truth, now he's not only pursuing it, confronting it, but he refuses to let it break him down and demotivate him as it would before, even accepting it so that he can reach his own answer and not let himself be swayed by either side (sort of like how Danganronpa 2 did things, but let's be real here, "Future" is just "Hope" with a bit more flavor).

Aside from his role in the story, I really like how his interactions with his classmates in their FTEs are sort of a mix between Makoto and Hajime's. Makoto was very pleasant and affable with his friends, Hajime was also decent but wasn't afraid to let any irritation show up on his face, but Shuichi tries to remain friendly but can be quite the smarmy smartass in his own internal monologue. He'll keep a straight face but will happily comment to himself if someone is being strange, annoying, or getting on his nerves. The primary exception being Kokichi, where he's more likely to say what's on his mind, namely that Kokichi is a weird little shit.

I know the Shuichi vs. Kaede debate is something that still continues, but I'll say briefly now before it's Kaede's week that Shuichi was a much more fitting viewpoint character for the game's themes than Kaede was, given that Kaede probably would've been preaching the same kind of stuff Kaito was, let's be honest.

I don't think his relationship with Kokichi is given as much focus as it should be, at least in the main story. According to the whiteboard in Kokichi's room, Shuichi is the one person he considers to possibly be trustworthy, which does explain why he was trying so hard to separate Shuichi from Kaito, removing him from that naïve optimism Kaito has already imprinted the group with in order to gain at least one potentially true ally, but presumably his role in Miu's death kind of sunk that. His FTEs fare better, playing a whole bunch of mind games and inventing more and more lies about himself so that Shuichi would be "interested" in him, even making up excuses to hang out with him more. A shame this doesn't carry over into the main story.

His relationships with other characters vary, but I do find his interactions with Himiko rather adorable, and he has his moments with Maki, even if their rapport could overall use some work.

I'm running out of things to say so I'll just comment that Shuichi is cute as hecc.

And wow, I decided to tweak a detail or two and all of a sudden im forced to separate this into two posts. Cute detectives give me quite a bit to talk about apparently.

The cutest boy

The BESTEST boy

Oh boy, I've been waiting for this. That said, I'm going to keep this short and simple. Others have already said what I wanted to, in much greater detail. I'll just give my thoughts on his character arc, as well as what I like and don't like about him.

To start with, this screenshot from the game describes his character arc pretty well. It's certainly a bit more nuanced than just summing it up as "learning to believe in himself". I go into slightly more detail in this post.

As for why I like him, here's what I've said the last time this topic has come up:

I like Shuichi because he's a 'weak' character. He's under a lot of pressure, arguably more so than the other protagonists due to his talent. The others are relying on him to save them in the class trials. It shows, especially in his interactions with Kaito. He cries and says that he's scared; he doubts and wonders if he's doing the right thing by revealing the truth. Despite that, he still comes through for them. Sure, he needed his friends to support him, but there's nothing inherently wrong with that. No man is an island, after all. It's only human to falter, especially in the situation they're in.

As for how he is as a protagonist, he had very clear development throughout the game, not just dumped near the end like the last two protagonists (though I still like them). In Chapter 2, he needed encouragement from Kaito to convict Kirumi. Compare that to Chapter 4, where he goes against the former (and almost everyone else) by suspecting Gonta.

Moving on, what I don't like about him is how he becomes passive after Chapter 1. I understand why he wouldn't want to try anything drastic after what happened last time, but it's pretty jarring when he's thinking of how to deal with a problem and then it's followed by FREE TIME. Granted, that's an issue with all the protagonists (except Kaede, and look how that turned out).

Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image

https://i.imgur.com/UQiylea.png

Source | Why? | Creator | ignoreme | deletthis

Shuichi is one of my favorite characters overall in the franchise. I love Kaede too but I don't really mind him taking the main protagonist role since he had a great arc to learn to have more confidence and stand by his own in key moments, showing how much he grow. Before, when he was acting like a partner for Kaede, Shuichi showed a timid personality with lack of confidence since he thought he doesn't feel like a detective for not doing things that a detective would and for causing someone to suffer after solving a case, who he thought he was doing the right thing, but actually he was sending someone who lost their family to a prison, after the victim killed them, which he felt extremely bad and lost courage to even try something like this again. So, as he gets some support, he start to try pursue the truth once more, but not exactly because he likes but because he have to do it for save the remaining people, which conflicts him sometimes, given that he is still afraid but that's when Kaito enters in his life for give him a moral support. So, as the game keeps going, Shuichi start to even if the truth is harsh, he have to chase it down, for the sake of surviving and fighting against Monokuma. We see he growing and standing by his own (like in chapter 4 with no matter what Kaito said, he continued to chase down the truth about Gonta being the culprit) and the culmination of his character growth is what we see in chapter 6 and how he ended the killing game. It's one of the things that I really like about Shuichi: how his personality is quite realistic and you can identify as him, since there times we are not so confident and some help and support can help a lot in moments that we really need and his whole feelings in chapter 6 about how he wanted to end all that sadistic plan of Tsumugi so no one else could suffer the same issue, which, I believe, a lot of people would share the similar feelings too. Now, even though I said he is one of my favorite characters from v3 and the entire franchise, I still have some issues with him. First issue, is the trio. From chapter 3 to 5, because of Kaito and Maki constantly at him, Shuichi (just like how Kaito calls him) feel like a sidekick instead of a protagonist since Kaito was always there to give moral boost and playing important parts of the story while keeping things going on, instead of Shuichi, even though, the main protag is him. Another issue is how the game forces Shuichi to be treated as a villain for doing the right thing sometimes, like in chapter 4, for pointing Gonta as the culprit, even though he was right and if he didn't, he and the rest would get mass executed. He even started to feel bad and feel like HE should be the one who should have apologize to Kaito (for trying to get the rest executed by trying to convince them Gonta wasn't the culprit, out of emotions and blind trust). The same thing also happens with Maki in chapter 5, when, after solving the mystery, he said sorry to her for pointing Kaito as the culprit, even though he was just doing the right thing and Maki, who tried to get everyone executed just for kill one person, didn't even apologized for acting like that. A reason for that would be because he still feel bad for what happened to the first murder he solved, where he sent a man who lost his family because of the victim that he killed but honestly, given that Kaito and Maki didn't even tried to suffer some kind of punishiment for what they did, is hard to endure this.

Overall: Shuichi is a great character because he had a unique personality compared to the others we had so far. Makoto is quite hopeful and optimistic, Hajime is boastful and cynical and Shuichi is pretty much shy and not so confident, who learned through the course of the story, to change and improve himself. It's risky to say that Shuichi went through some development way more than the others because his ideals changed a lot, where he started to believe more in himself and in the others, while Naegi kept the same hopeful like personality and Hajime didn't had many conflicts or some kind of change except for the whole discovery in chapter 4 for being a talentless person and the fact that Hope vs Despair theme gets repeated again in the end of SDR2, just made him slightly similar to Naegi, principally in DR3 hope.

Wow, these well thought-out long form essays are pretty convincing. Meanwhile my dumb ass was just going to comment,"press f for my ni🅱️🅱️a succi, he never got to tap that sweet thicc ass"

A lot of people already dived in to explain why Shuichi is a great protag and well written character and another part already talked about why they didn't like him. I'm here to defend the first camp and explain why I think he is the best DR protag.

1) Well written character arc

I think that's something no one can deny. Shuichi develops as the games progresses, unlike Hajime and Komaru who have a sudden change after a certain part of the story (generally close to the last chapters) and Makoto, who generally remains static, Shuichi is constantly evolving and changing and that makes him a protagonist who is never stale from one chapter to another, you have him in chapter 1 being timid and full of self doubt but still being proactive for the sake of the others, then you have him during chapter two where he lost that proactive part of him due to the events of chapter 1 but is trying to get rid of his self doubt and self hatred for Kaede's sake (and failing) and so on.

2) Personal relationships

While the other protagonists generally only had notable and important story relevant relationships with their female friend and their rival, Shuichi has a whole net of complex relationships with the cast, that makes him feel more like a character written for the story rather than just a vehicle for the player self insert into. He has a special highlighted relationship not only with Kaede and Ouma but also with Kaito, Maki and even Keebo, Himiko and Tsumugi, his choice to group up with Maki and Kaito especifically shows off his individuality as a protagonist.

3) Relevance to V3's main theme

As a detective who is afraid of uncovering the truth, Shuichi is a great example of making a main character who is relevant to the story's theme. That is also perhaps, the biggest and most important part of his character, the contradiction of a capable detective and logical person like Shuichi having such a huge degree of empathy and kindness that it's hard for him to actually expose the truth and damn someone to a possibility of having a destiny that could be uncalled for or even mistaken, that's what causes him to faulter and doubt himself constantly. As the story progresses, he evolves and learns to get over that fear, people like to highlight his confidence growth but that really isn't what is more relevant to his character arc, his complex relationship with the concepts of truth and lies is, instead.

4) A new form of addressing a repeated talent

I disagree with the people who say that Shuichi didn't offer anything new and that they wanted a corrupt detective or something along those lines. What Shuichi offers as a detective, is different from what Kyoko does, Kyoko shows off mainly the more glamorous side of detectives, the one you'd more likely see in detective fiction (lol) with her coming from a secret line of detectives and being part of a order of detectives while also being a prodigy in the field who has all the answers from the get go. However, the take on Shuichi's talent is much more realistic and gritty, it shows off the amount of footwork, methodology and hard work involved in being a detective, Shuichi goes off and usually considers every possibility while investigating to confirm his deductions and conclusions instead of just having them from seeing the evidence because he has a super brain, he is also a part of his uncle private detective agency and has taken cases that are common for Private Investigators to take like investigations of affairs, lost pets, missing people, etc.

5)The Rejection of Hope and Despair

I've already said this before but Shuichi is, as of right now, the only DR protag to outright reject the concepts in which DR was based on (which is also why I can't buy when people say that his character arc and type is a repeat) and he was only able to do that because he is NOT like your usual DR protag who never really gives up hope and even if or when they do, they have some friend who will make them believe in it again (Chiaki in Hajime's case and Toko in Komaru's case), Shuichi had Keebo as the one injecting hope into everyone but he was capable of seeing through that and see Tsumugi's trap hidden beneath the sweet embrace of hope and thus was able to reject that and fight against the very foundation of the killing game, his level of spite and anger during that scene is novel for a game like DR where protags at the end generally only have a healthy dose of determination added to them.

i don't think any danganronpa sincerely ends with a rejection of hope. both dr2 and v3 pretend to be about other things -- hajime's bullet says 'future' and i think shuichi's says 'fuck your nielsen ratings tsumugi' -- but they inevitably end on these incredibly optimistic notes of our protag and their buddies who haven't been reduced to piranha food staring off into the great unknown and deciding that it'll be hard out there, but gosh darn it, they'll do their best. the protags might reject Hope The Largely Meaningless Danganronpa Concept but their narratives all end in incredibly similar, hopeful ways, so it's hard for me to accept that as a real point of difference between shuichi and his cohort of protagonists.

I don't think Hajime outright rejects hope, after all his choice in the end, is still hope's choice. Hajime's FUTURE bullet is basically him rejecting the idea that his future was predetermined due to what both Makoto and Junko were saying regarding what would happen if he chose the shutdown (they would revert to their UD modes) Hajime rejected that idea and chose to believe in the miracle of them getting out okay (which turned out right because plot) but in the end he still chose to activate the shutdown, which was the choice of the hope's side.

Shuichi on the other hand, outright rejects the concept of the hope choice that was so deply ingrained in DR and creates his own choice by commiting to the sacrifice that would come with not voting. Any other hopeful character would do like Keebo did and chose to sacrifice themselves for the sake of the others and if not, they'd be invigorated by Keebo's HOPE bullets and chose to keep living to not let their friends' sacrifice be in vain. That's why what Shuichi did feels especially different than what the others did.

Regarding the fact that he and the others live in the end, I don't see it as a form of "hope utimately winning in the end", what happened was that the audience (or Keebo) chose to save them and now, free from the shackles of DR, they are free to hope again. That's why the game ends with them presumably dead and they're only revealed to be alive after the credits end and you get to the title screen again.

I still don't really get how the V3 ending rejects hope. I thought the whole point of Shuichi's choice was to create an ending that was unsatisfying to the viewers by convincing the others to give their lives, but in the end, they are presumably saved by the audience. Is it really surprising that the audience would choose to save their lives, given that it is the "hopeful" ending and the one that wouldn't be completely unsatisfying to them? I thought it was already established that them living would bring the audience "hope", which was the premise Shuichi was going off of when he was convincing the others to sacrifice themselves.

There are two possibilities:

1)What Shuichi did might have had the additional effect of making the audience feel guilty so they decided to not kill all of them after resolving to end the game, after all, it's unthinkable to think that absolutely all of the audience were all assholes part of one single hivemind who did not have an ounce of conscience.

or

2)Keebo might have taken direct control at the very end after everyone left and there was no else to directly control him

But one thing you can be sure of, V3 didn't end with hope, the game officially ended with no survivors. The three of them being alive is literally a post credits thing that happens when no one else is watching them, it's supposed to be a message that they're allowed to hope again now that they're free from their shackles. Simply put, V3's message was never that the feeling of hope is a bad thing, just that the hope offered by the corrupt system that DR became was a bad thing.

The three of them being alive is literally a post credits thing that happens when no one else is watching them

This is a valid possibility that I hadn't thought of, so thanks for this. It does raise the question of what would happen if they made it to the outside world and were recognized though, and I find it strange that Shuichi wouldn't consider the possibility that they were still being watched and thus still be giving the outside world the "hope ending" they wanted to see.

V3's message was never that the feeling of hope is a bad thing, just that the hope offered by the corrupt system that DR became was a bad thing

I feel like that's the main thing though, the "hope" option offered by Tsumugi in V3 is a corrupted and way less appealing option than the ones offered in the previous games, to the point where I don't think Makoto or Hajime would have acted differently if they had been presented with a similar set of outcomes. Ending the killing games once and for all with everyone making it to the outside world, versus continuing the killing with some of them being forced to participate again, which would seem like the greater "hope" to them personally?

I think Shuichi's decision to give up their lives definitely sets him apart, but then he reverses this decision anyways in the epilogue so in the end, I feel it basically just amounts to the same thing (though with different methods used to achieve this ending).

and I find it strange that Shuichi wouldn't consider the possibility that they were still being watched and thus still be giving the outside world the "hope ending" they wanted to see.

By that point they already pretty much caused the world to reject DR as well, they were supposed to die in the execution but since that for some reason they survive, I see nothing wrong with them having hope again now that they're free from the DR system.

I feel like that's the main thing though, the "hope" option offered by Tsumugi in V3 is a corrupted and way less appealing option than the ones offered in the previous games, to the point where I don't think Makoto or Hajime would have acted differently if they had been presented with a similar set of outcomes. Ending the killing games once and for all with everyone making it to the outside world, versus continuing the killing with some of them being forced to participate again, which would seem like the greater "hope" to them personally

Yeah but put Makoto in V3 and I doubt he wouldn't chose hope there personally, even if it came with the cost of sacrificing himself.

I think Shuichi's decision to give up their lives definitely sets him apart, but then he reverses this decision anyways in the epilogue so in the end, I feel it basically just amounts to the same thing (though with different methods used to achieve this ending).

Him living was something beyond his control though. And he didn't chose to not vote because he was suicidal, he chose that to make a statement for the sake of everyone who ever died within the Ultimate Real Fiction but after they all miraculously survived the execution that was supposed to kill them I don't see the point of them still trying to kill themselves.

I personally believe think the ending would be far too grim and unforgiving if nobody lived through it.

You've got a good point there.

In this follow up post I'll be answering to the most common critics against him, explaining why I think that they don't fit and why his overwhelming popularity is deserved.

"His arc is a repeat of the other protags! It's just another shy weak willed male gains confidence!"

That's an extremely shallow way of seeing things and does not only a disservice to Shuichi but also to the other protags.

First off, yeah Shuichi was pretty clearly a shy weak willed male and that's exactly why he IS different, no protagonist before him was like or started out like that. Makoto was never shy (what he has though, is humility) and he most defiintely is not weak willed, Hajime was seen through most of DR2 as a reliable figure by the rest of the cast and behaved like that which is expected of someone who basically helped carry the DR2 trials alongside Nagito and Chiaki, it's only later in the story where his insecurity rears it's ugly head and it's even later where it begins actually affecting him (his character arc is kind of reminscent of a deconstruction arc even, which some people advocate as the would be ideal character arc for Kaede even though that'd be OOC too).

Komaru is the protagonist with more similarities to Shuichi but it's also fair to remember that she started the game weak willed and frail not because that is her natural personality but because of the situation she found herself in, which is a pretty important distinction to make.

"He is bland and his dynamic with the other characters is bland too"

The first one is incredibly subjective but even so, it's only natural since most DR protagonists are written in a way to not make them as eccentric as their peers, if anything among all of them Shuichi is the least bland one due to his relevant backstory and the way his personality is constantly evolving in the story.

And really, if people are complaining about his dynamic with the rest of the characters, perhaps they should actually try going through his FTEs, some are genuinely hilarious like Tenko's, Miu's, Keebo's, Angie's or Kaito's, some are heartwarming like Ryoma's, Kaito's, Kaede's and others are just genuinely well written and interesting like Korekiyo's, Rantaro's and Kirumi's.

To be honest, I never laughed as much as I did for a DR FTE due to the shenanigans that Miu and Keebo did with him.

"He is dumb and not really smart compared to the other protags. He is not a good detective"

That's perhaps one of the most naive complaints about him, it's like people forget or don't know how actual investigative method is like, y'know the process where you have to actually eliminate and address all possibilities in order to confirm deductions or discard them. I know Kirigiri made it look easy but then again, as I said up above, her showing off the glamorous side of being a detective pretty much highlights how her character isn't supposed to be as realistic as Shuichi was.

I've seen some people saying that chapter 5 was confusing and made a bad job of showing Shuichi's competency, I can't really agree with that in any shape or form. Chapter 5 is the chapter where he really comes onto his own and carries everyone in the trial, I don't understand the people complaining about Shuichi's lack of hesitancy on pursuing the truth when Monokuma had already said to ALL of them that he'd kill them all if they got it wrong regardless of the fact of him not knowing the actual answer! It's right there in the trial, you guys.

It's only after Shuichi is 100% sure that it's Kaito there in the Exisal that he decides to fuck logic and fully trust Kaito and commit to what he was trying to do even though he did not understand yet. It was a risky decision, especially after Monokuma said that he did not consider the cast to be extras at all and it was Shuichi trying to keep up with the lie that made Kaito give up on following the plan to the end (which could possibly get them all killed without fully stop the killing game).

Shuichi really highlights a lot of the major issues I have with V3, and there are a few sources that bring it together. I do like Kaede, but I'm actually not going to bring up much related to her, because even if we just started as Shuichi and him the whole game, I still have some major gripes with how his character is handled. I don't want this to turn into a Kaede vs Shuichi argument fest, so I'm not going to focus all that much on the first case and wait until next week.

Despite that, I don't particularly mind him in chapter 1. He's fairly proactive in that he and Kaede try to take a major countermeasure against the mastermind's scheme by trying to catch them early on. It definitely had some flaws to it and relies on a lot of uncertainty, but with a ticking clock and the mounting pressure, I can live with it since I realize it's better than nothing. The game really never focuses much on it, but I really do enjoy the unexplored fact that Shuichi pretty much immediately solves the case, but he had the luxury of watching the killer set pretty much everything up. Of course he's going to catch on. This isn't a criticism of his character, but I actually found this a much more interesting way of establishing him as a "leader who came upon it by dumb luck" than his backstory.

People would naturally ask what he thinks about the case since he's the ultimate detective, but I found that his whole "I managed to catch this nameless guy" backstory was just kind of poorly written simply because it feels less like an actual event that affected Shuichi in a way and more a single point of contrast that conveniently mirrors what Kaede was doing to milk more tragedy out the situation. While I still have some major issues with case 1, Kaede can carry the narrative well, and I thought it was just a cheap way to try and have Shuichi more invested and as I'll bring up. Kaede exists as a springboard for Shuichi's character, and they've done this in the past with Sayaka and Peko, to name a few, but Kaede's discussion is coming up soon and I'll talk more about that then instead.

Unfortunately for me, Shuichi kind of plummets into the ground for me once you start playing as him. His character dynamics serving primarily as the straight man, mostly what I've come to expect from a DR game. He can have some good relationships with other characters like say Kaito, but it's almost always the other character doing the heavy lifting and make the relationship interesting, not what Shuichi himself brings to the table. If this was the first game, maybe it wouldn't be that big a deal, but four games in it just feels overly stale and this is mostly due to the very stagnant character dynamics. Between Makoto, Hajime, Komaru, and Shuichi, the base characters do go in very different directions thematically (and even then that mostly comes down to what word like HOPE or FUTURE they shout at the end of the game) but their dynamics save for maybe Komaru who plays off of Toko, are all largely the same.

I know some people enjoy playing as the ultimate detective, but I never really cared for it because apart from the whole "pressure of the leader" dynamic since everyone starts to rely more and more on Shuichi, particularly in case 4 but apart from that and someone who believes in exposing the truth, it never really did much for me. The largest extent of Shuichi's talent use is him either beginning a sentence with "As the ultimate detective, I think…" and it feels more obnoxious to me at times than anything. Shuichi never felt like he was significantly smarter and because of the layout of some of the cases, it has the effect of Shuichi seeming like an idiot or a hypocrite. That primarily comes down to Truth/Lies being way too vague of a theme. When the games end up trying to say a million different things, they ultimately say nothing, and that's how the themes of the games came down, to say nothing of how cringy a line like "I will use truth and lies" is in chapter 4 I believe?

Because Shuichi is pretty well respected in the group and we know they value his opinion, the lying scenarios (I'm only focused on the mandatory lies for the sake of this post) just seem incredibly forced and pointless. Shuichi can simply say "hey, something seems off about X and I think we should talk about it. Everyone already asks what he thinks anyway, so there's really no reason for him to lie in these situations. He covers for people in two instances of the class trials which is unbelievably irresponsible in the context of a class trial where a wrong vote kills everyone, and I get that it's to expose the truth or whatever, but these cases fundamentally misunderstand how to integrate something like a lie into a case.

With trial 1 and Kaede, it makes sense why she has to lie to cover for Shuichi because she can trust that, at the very least, she knows Shuichi can't be the killer. She lacks the evidence to support the claim that Shuichi is innocent, but it's not unreasonable to suspect him, so her lie fits in the context of the narrative, and even when she does it, everyone isn't immediately convinced that she's being honest. Not only is there a situation that necessitates a lie, but there are actual stakes involved if that lie is either exposed or if it takes the trial in a wrong direction, which Kaede hesitates over in her inner thoughts.

In Shuichi's case, he's not bluffing because his inner thoughts establish that at the points he's lying that he doesn't have something suggesting it's somebody else, so for all he knows, it could be the person he's lying to cover. It just relies on a major assumption, and you could get away with this if it's a "trust in your friend" kind of situation, except it happens so early in the narrative with characters he shared only a handful of conversations with that it makes no sense at all for Shuichi to trust them.

If I were to liken this to Ace Attorney, you have scenarios where you bluff or lie, but the games come down to the player character usually figuring out who the killer is before catching them, but because the case comes down to proving why it's them, it doesn't matter that you know it's them. That's not as easily possible in DR because the setup of the killing game ultimately comes down to "who did it" and you're not trying to present something in a proper court but just trying to sway a group of high schoolers to your reasoning. You also have the advantage of having previously established relationships with certain characters you defend, so you can still trust in them, and even then it's backfired several times in the series where someone you trust is more involved than they let on. The scenarios compliment the characters, which is a major issue I think Shuichi suffers from.

I find that DR seems to think it's mock trial when it's not. In most civilized countries you'd need 'beyond reasonable doubt' for the death penalty, which is at least 99% certain. Therefore just because you're 90% sure soandso did it doesn't mean you can just execute that guy, so that's why the typical Japanese manga often resorts to lies and tricks to get the last 9% out of the culprit.

In DR the standard is way lower because if you don't kill the right guy everyone dies too. In fact if someone committed a perfect murder and Hiro pulled out his crystal ball and say he's 30% certain X did it, and assuming you believe his talent is genuine and that he's not the actual killer, you might as well go for it over 1/(number of guys still alive). There needs to be absolutely no proof because it's your own skin on the line so you're just interested in making the more likely choice even if it's just 30% certain from what the local psychic told you.

The whole 'making sure we get the right guy' is extremely hypocritical because this isn't a court of law, and as you mentioned the protagonist doesn't seem like an especially smart or even manipulative guy. It just looks like he picks on a random small thing and hammer someone into submission, even though these are all high school kids without a lawyer present and all of them, including the protagonist, are likely to say dumb/wrong things under pressure. Going back from DR1 case 1, there's a time where Leon accused Makoto for being the murderer because he's stuttering after being accused as the murderer. That's roughly as sound as most 'X is behaving strangely' accusation, and I'm sure in an environment like DR any normal people is going to act scared given the stakes. I think the problem is that even after pretending this is a court of law and using dubious methods, you still end up with things that are mostly hearsay so what's the point? It'd be one thing if you make some lie and the murderer said "No that's not what happened I stabbed him with a knife in the closet! Oops I just admitted I did it!" That'd at least be quite conclusive. Instead I feel a lot of trickery ends up closer to a lynch mob where the protagonist uses the fact that for some reason there's already a lot of people behind him to beat up a victim that he has no reason to be really suspect in the first place, and still didn't get anything that'd be considered conclusive.

Yeah. I feel it'd be better if they were to either refine how the rulings or cases work if they're going to stick with the mass execution rule, or just get rid of the rule entirely. A lot of DR fanfiction changes the killing game rules because it really restricts a lot of the case logic and the narrative when you remember "everyone dies if you vote wrong" is always on the table, and there are really only about 2 or 3 cases in the series that actually benefited from or needed the mass execution rule.

The other thing is that the story establishes that with a few exceptions like Fuyuhiko/Peko, everyone has mostly met each other for the first time, so doing things like covering for each other feels really strange, at least in the earlier trials, when you realize someone is willing to risk death for someone they've had one or two conversations with.

I think it'd be great if they went fully into the lynch mob scenario and just have it where only the voted party is executed and a mass execution is on the table if they just vote someone without any evidence suggesting it's them to prevent the obvious plot hole of "why not just vote for X at the start?" It'd create interesting moral dilemmas, and I'd even say that pretty much every V3 class trial would be better if they had that rule instead.

Finally, in a series like Ace Attorney, because they're not in an enclosed area and you're continuing with older characters, it makes sense that they can trust in each other more. If Phoenix spots a contradiction between the evidence and say, Trucy's testimony, it doesn't feel out of place that he puts his faith in her. Even in times with less trustworthy clients, they've had putting your faith in them backfire before or have them uncooperative or lying for whatever reason and take advantage of the different scenarios.

Junko originally said something along the lines of if the kids didn't cling onto the hope of escaping then none of the bad things would've happened. Unfortunately I don't think DR actually understands what this means. Any objective look at any DR game would suggest that there's actually no way out and you're likely to die 1 by 1, and if there's no hope of escaping there's no need to worry over trivial things like trust or morality. After about 3 cases you'd think people would even give up trying to deceive anyone, because empirical evidence suggests you're not getting away with it so why work so hard just to die? What is the value of building a team if you can't beat the Mastermind?

For the DR formula to work there has to be a tangible way to actually beat the Mastermind even if it's extremely difficult. Then it'd justify why you'd take the very risky step of even trusting or covering anyone at all as opposed to just lock yourself up in your own room. A court of law, after all, is very logic based and not based on trust or interpersonal skills.

DR seems to pretend that if a jerk puts together well convincing argument and puts all the pieces together everyone will just reject that because he's a jerk. That's not how people work. I'll definitely side with the guy who presents a sound argument no matter how nasty a person he is when my life is on the line. You have to remove the 'everyone dies' factor for the people part to matter. I think DR2 cast would've voted for an immediate lynch mob on Nagito if they didn't have to die, and that'd actually serve as a powerful reminder that it's important to not make everyone want to kill you. There should be significant penalty for screwing up so that it's not just a popularity contest, but there should be a balance between being correct and being liked. If you constantly lie and bully people to get the correct solution don't be surprised if some of the survivors decide to nail you the next time.

i've always been iffy on the idea of altering the 'if you're wrong, everyone dies' part of the dr formula, because i like it as a piece of high concept stakes-raising, but i must admit you have me salivating at the idea of casting a 'fuck you' vote to murder a kokichi or a nagito in their crib. 'oh, yeah, bitch? tell me how you feel about hope now.' just think of all the time i'd save not having to endure that bullshit until the villain's mandatory operatic fifth case death. i could take up macrame.

So I was thinking for this to work out it'll probably have work like this. Obviously if everyone voted to kill someone who didn't do it, then that means the real murderer definitely gets away with it. We'll just say this also can't be a suicide. Once someone gets away with murder, the Mastermind is now allowed to actually be nasty instead of putting up dumb attempts to sabotage the cast despite having full control of the entire environment. Now, the Mastermind still can't directly kill anyone and wouldn't be allowed to destroy evidence, but everything else should be fair game. So expect your detective character to wake up tied in ropes and so on. It'd make the decision to kill the offender a big one. Do you really want to allow the Mastermind to actually get nasty just to get rid of someone? Of course I doubt we'll get multiple branching things, but this can even be a like a 'hard mode' deal where solving becomes much harder (but still possible).

I don't necessarily think it has to be a staple in the series, but it definitely should have been implemented for V3 because the scenarios aren't necessarily bad, but the rules end up causing problems with the setups in the class trials.

I could give a billion examples, but the most glaring one to me is that the rules in V3-5 have the setup of the case where Maki is more than willing to sacrifice everyone else for her goal of finishing off Kokichi, and the game pretty much never comments on it. If you had it where the rule is altered, you can have it where she tries to accomplish the same goal by trying to pin the crime on Kokichi only to realize late in the trial that she's pinning it on Kaito since he's the one in the exisal. You can have the same character exploration minus that whole "completely willing to murder everyone" thing and address one of the many big issues with that mess of a chapter.

I wonder if DR just forgets that everyone is supposed to die on a failed vote because a lot of the moral dilemmas only make sense if only some of the people died as opposed to all. On the DR1 game over screen it says due to your failure everyone voted for Makoto. However, that's actually irrelevant who they voted for because the result is everyone but the blackened dies as long as it's wrong, but the game still feels compelled to point that out.

It's one thing for people to rationalize that it's okay to kill someone for reasons, but it's quite different to rationalize to kill everyone, often including yourself, for any reason. For one, if you don't mind dying in the process, just pick up a knife and stab the guy you're trying to kill as soon as you see him. If you succeed it's all good. If you fail just keep on try again, and if you got killed by the guy you're trying to kill he's likely dead from class trial anyway. In the worst case you can offer to just talk someone into killing you while you cooperate as long as that killer isn't the guy you're trying to kill. It should be impossible to screw this up.

I'm not trying to discredit everything you said here but there are a few things here I couldn't simply keep quiet about.

There is no fully logical explanation for what Shuichi did to cover for Maki during chapter 2 except that he wanted to believe in Kaito and also had an inkling suspicion of the crime actually having taken place during nighttime. He made a gamble and turned out to be right, simple.

it feels off when you had Shuichi more than willing to simply assume people weren't the killer before.

That's because Shuichi developed between case 2 and case 4. By case 3, he was much more detective like and depending less and less on Kaito's support. It's only natural that in case 4, he'd break away from Kaito's belief ideal after seeing the possibility that Gonta could've commited the murder.

It's also pretty bad in case 5 when they explicitly explain the plan to thwart the killing game, and rather than playing along or realizing that, Shuichi just keeps going and then decides at the last minute to lie

Because Monokuma straight up said that he'd still kill them all regardless and Shuichi didn't really understood the point of the plan of trying to play by the rules when Monokuma does what he wants with them (he was right about this btw). In the end, after he is 100% sure that Kaito is in the Exisal, he decides not to logically trust in the plan but to simply believe in what Kaito is trying to do

He flips sides for the scrum debate and decides that Kaito isn't in the exisal

Because all of the evidence they had atm showed that Kaito was the one who most likely died. They didn't even have Maki's testimony yet.

The way they structure it unfortunately creates really strange pacing for shuichi and makes him seem like a giant idiot

The case was legit confusing. Tons of clues and among them red herrings, people hiding important evidence and testimonies left and right and in the end, there was still no actual way to fully show who killed who because they lacked fatal evidence and Monokuma did not know. If anything, solving a case as complicated and that one just showed that he was pretty smart.

I feel people kind of overvalue how much people like Chiaki, Nagito, Byakuya, and Kyoko helped out

Byakuya's help is overhyped yeah, he was only competent in case 3 and 5, but Kyoko really, really helped Makoto in the investigation part, I will never forget the part where she literally told him "the student handbook will be important for this case" and it literally became a truth bullet, lol. Chiaki and Nagito were very important too, Nagito carried the entire group during case 3 and 4 by revealing things that broke through the culprit's traps, and 2-5 would be impossible to solve without Chiaki there since she was the one who got through Nagito's logic.

the themes are already so broad and vague

I disagree with the themes being broad and vague but I feel like this is pretty much part of an ending discussion thread :P

Shuichi is just more or less of the same, and probably wouldn't be that big a deal in the first game or two, but four games in of largely the same base character is really annoying

Disagree with them being the same base character. as if implying Makoto, Hajime, Komaru and Shuichi are the exact same thing. It'd be the same as me implying Kaede is the same as Makoto because they have similar views regarding friendship and hope, or saying she is the same as Komaru because they're females.

The fact that Shuichi is basically a source of man angst using Kaede as nothing but a springboard for his own character is a pretty clunky way of handling his character imo.

I thought you liked Kaede? Why are you reducing her to just a source of man pain for Shuichi and saying she was just a springboard? Are you implying that she had to die for Shuichi's development when that was never the case?

but there are more character types than meek dude who becomes more confident in himself by the end

Yeah but I don't see how Makoto and Hajime were particularly meek. Shuichi's technically just the second DR protag to start off as weak as he does, first being Komaru.

I thought you liked Kaede? Why are you reducing her to just a source of man pain for Shuichi and saying she was just a springboard? Are you implying that she had to die for Shuichi's development when that was never the case?

i love kaede and think she's an excellent and interesting character, but her ultimate purposes in the larger narrative are 1) to serve as the vessel for the unreliable narrator twist and 2) to give purpose and development to shuichi after her death. i wish that weren't the case because it's a boring and reductive treatment of a character who, prior to her death, i found compelling, and obviously it speaks to a larger phenomenon about the way female characters are stuffed into coal furnaces to power the steam engines of male characters' stories, but alas, it's true.

I feel like the ones who are being reductive and boring with the character are the ones who believe that she was only that. Kaede's role in the larger narrative was to be the surprise blackened of chapter 1 and having her death affect the group as a whole is just a way to show off her importance as a character, it was not like she was just sacrificed to give Shuichi some angst and some development, in fact Shuichi didn't even instantly developed only with Kaede's death, he still needed a lot of help to get over his issues.

But I guess if we're looking at the story in the way you're looking at then Kaito just died to power up the steam engine of Maki's story. Same for Tenko and Himiko... I don't know, I'm not a fan of adopting such an outlook. It's like you are invalidating the characters and their nuances, believing them just stepping stones for others...Nagito would be proud I guess.

i don't think kaede died so shuichi could instantly become actualized, if that's what you're implying. i think she's meant to act as a piece of trauma/adversity, one of several, for him to overcome. her death puts his beliefs into question and then he grows and learns from there. it's a similar dynamic to the one around sayaka's death in the first game.

i don't believe kaito's sole purpose for existence was to fuel maki's arc because they're both in 80% of the game and during that time kaito has a lot of story action that has nothing to do with maki (to do with kokichi, to do with shuichi, etc.), and he also stands in for the concept of blind trust in the thematic narrative, and so on. kaede has interactions with non-shuichi characters, but the primary bulk of her living days is spent with shuichi and other than her status as a more general totem of misery, no one really places importance upon their individual bond with her as much as he does.

i totally believe tenko solely dies to progress himiko's narrative, although i like her well enough as a character. she doesn't have much going on at all from the larger narrative perspective besides her relationship with himiko.

whether i think it invalidates their nuances or not depends on the character. i used the words 'excellent,' 'interesting' and 'compelling' to describe kaede so obviously i think she has a lot going for her, which makes it even more of a shame that her nuts and bolts function in the larger story is so boring. tenko i like but i don't find her particularly nuanced at all.

I'd say Kaede actually has a fairly large role in the story for someone who dies in chapter 1. She's easily the most important chapter 1 blackened in the entire series, not only due to her close bond with Shuichi and also not just in a plot device way like Rantaro does. Her initial influence within the group was fundamental for the propagation of the idea most of them try to enforce later, the idea of trying to live in harmony and some of the things she ended up saying back in chapter 1 still ended up affecting the whole group in the end.

You can stay with your opinion of finding her role in the larger story boring. I believe that it was interesting while she lived, unique due to her actions and that it had lasting consequences later on.

load more comments (1 reply)

It comes off very hypocritically come case 4, and while I like the dynamic of Shuichi having to stand up to Kaito and expose the truth, it feels off when you had Shuichi more than willing to simply assume people weren't the killer before. This case also highlights an issue with the lying in that absolutely nobody in the group trusts Kokichi, so I feel trying to lie to force him into a contradictory situation is pointless when nobody was willing to believe Kokichi in the first place. It's also pretty bad in case 5 when they explicitly explain the plan to thwart the killing game, and rather than playing along or realizing that, Shuichi just keeps going and then decides at the last minute to lie. It's even stranger because the beginning of the case has him correctly pushing for the angle that Kaito is in the exisal. Monokuma literally tells them about the voice changer and at that point, Kaito immediately switches over to the Kokichi voice and Shuichi acts shocked. He flips sides for the scrum debate and decides that Kaito isn't in the exisal, only to flip back again and keep on pressing even though he's outright told what the goal behind the killing was. I don't see how his terrible lie at the very end of the trial was supposed to accomplish anything when it was way too late to try and pull off. I really like a lot of the ideas in case 5, but I feel it'd be better for Shuichi's character and also more in line with the truth/lies theme if you figure out halfway through the case that Kaito is in the exisal and also the killer, but the entire second half is just Shuichi lying and playing along with the plan. There's motivation to keep going unlike other trials because you have the chance of saving Kaito.

To me, case 5's biggest issue is that it gives a premise that narrows down the suspect list immediately, which is fine since you can make a good case out of that and most case 5s in DR don't focus on whodunnit as much as "what is X trying to accomplish?" It's obvious it's going to come down to Makoto and Kyoko, so let's take advantage of the situation and not try to make it about the thrill of coming to that conclusion. Dr 2 has a really glaring flag of who the traitor is and even Hajime notes he immediately knew what it meant. It's removed from the English version, but the Japanese version has Nagito give a line that narrows down the suspect list for the traitor, so it's not trying to focus on hiding some twist they know is obvious and instead has fun with it.

V3 I think starts with that idea, but I feel it'd make more sense to not try and flip back and forth since the premise immediately gives away the conclusion that Kaito did it. The way they structure it unfortunately creates really strange pacing for shuichi and makes him seem like a giant idiot.

Not once in this game did I really care that he was the detective and I don't feel that he's necessarily smarter. I feel people kind of overvalue how much people like Chiaki, Nagito, Byakuya, and Kyoko helped out. Byakuya didn't carry Makoto, and in the cases of DR 1 2, 3, and 4, he made numerous slipups that Makoto called him out on. Nagito and Chiaki would definitely contribute, particularly Nagito sitting back and giving nudges to the group when they got stuck, but I didn't feel it was to a degree that we absolutely needed some overhaul. If anything, the fact that the group really trusts shuichi so much I feel works against the mechanics at times because of the things I mentioned above. I know that he's going to be more assured in himself as time goes by, but he's not really making things interesting with his character dynamics and I'm not really invested in shuichi.

He denounces hope in the end of the game, but the larger issue here is that Shuichi has to not be a character anymore after chapter 1 and more just a pawn or mouthpiece for the themes of the game, which is generally just a really poor way of writing a character. Instead of having the themes flourish from the scenarios the characters undergo, it always felt like Shuichi was just on an invisible track that all DR protags have to undergo, and him shouting different words at the end of the game doesn't really change anything for me because the themes are already so broad and vague that it doesn't make much difference.

He just feels like a rather stiff straight man in terms of dynamics, his role as a protagonist feels hypocritical at times because the game flip flops on what it tries to say about truth/lies, the lying mechanic only makes sense in the one trial you don't play as Shuichi, and his reactions to most of what goes on in the game doesn't really feel unique to him and he's a pretty dime a dozen character already.

I can see the "difficulties of the leader" dynamic, but can find it more interesting if there was ever anything at stake. Hell, in case 4, Tsumugi is able to point out a contradiction in Shuichi's lie, but it really highlights that it doesn't matter and it kind of renders the entire scenario pointless if even when presented with contradictory information Shuichi will just be right. I know it's supposed to be a joke, but that part really rubbed me the wrong way. Same goes for when they have the reveal of him taking off his hat in chapter 2 and we see his hair. It's supposed to just be a light joke in part too, but it felt like kind of a middle finger after switching to him as the player, as if to say we're so stuck in our own ways and formula that we can't even be bothered to change even that part of a player character.

Shuichi is just more or less of the same, and probably wouldn't be that big a deal in the first game or two, but four games in of largely the same base character is really annoying. The fact that Shuichi is basically a source of man angst using Kaede as nothing but a springboard for his own character is a pretty clunky way of handling his character imo. This'll be something I focus on as well in Kaede's discussion, so I won't dwell on it much here, but there are more character types than meek dude who becomes more confident in himself by the end. It's a huge lack of imagination from those that insist the narrative has to be done this way for it to work when it only further stagnates the writing.

Making a character better at solving doesn't necessarily make them a more compelling character. What they contribute to the group dynamic I think is way more compelling. Fuyuhiko was able to contribute to the cast but routinely fell into mistakes, red herrings, etc. He was able to make excellent deductions as well though,and it's a good contrast to say that making him able to pull together sharp deductions all the time wouldn't make him more compelling, which is at the heart of why Shuichi being mostly in the driver's seat doesn't really change things for me.

It's a huge lack of imagination from those that insist the narrative has to be done this way for it to work when it only further stagnates the writing.

Thank you for mentioning this. I can't stand seeing the argument "Kaede would've chosen hope at the end!" or "There was nowhere for her character to go!" or "She would've been the same every chapter!" We only saw her in one chapter ffs

That being said I only think the writers were successful with Kaede because they killed her off, and if they didn't plan on doing the protag switch we'd just have Shuichi from the beginning. So maybe they are only good at using the same stupid arc

Yeah, and to act like confidence is the only direction you can take a character when there are countless examples of fictional characters that are confident and maybe focus on something else is absolutely ridiculous.

I'll be bringing it up next week, but even if Kaede didn't have a huge arc or anything, she still had much better character dynamics with pretty much anyone you threw her way and I think even that alone would have been more enjoyable. I don't think that the writing group is any good at all, but I think we both agree that's still different from saying the character isn't able to work.

It's a huge lack of imagination from those that insist the narrative has to be done this way for it to work when it only further stagnates the writing.

This. I could just cite a dozen of protagonists in media who aren't driven by confidence issues that need to believe more in themselves (and it's not about finding the truth or not as the game itself says in chapters 1 & 3 and more that the protagonist needs to BELIEVE MORE in themselves or that they have no confidence in themselves at all)

Yeah, and even on its own, Shuichi's isn't anything glaringly terrible, but his stands out more when we've not only had three games of this same base character before and when we're teased with the idea that we're going to depart from it in the form of Kaede only to abandon that and immediately retreat back into the writing comfort zone.

I can completely understand if someone likes Shuichi, and that's fine. I think it's absolutely ridiculous that I've seen it posted where it had to be done that way to make the protagonist in any way relatable.

it's an anime thing. if i literally only consumed anime, manga, anime and manga-adjacent media (which i'm guessing is uuuuh not an unsizeable part of the dr fanbase; shouts to the hifumis in the crowd), then yeah, i would be like 'how the fuck do you expect your protagonist to grow without learning the power of friendship to believe in themselves WHAT IS THIS MARS????'

but i read and i write and i watch movies and plays and so on sooo yeah sorry shuichi, nice hat tho.

Yeah, it's the most easy thing to write hence their absolute overuse since Neon Genesis Evangelion came up with that and changed anime forever, for the better, or for the worst. Though I do knew a few media-oriented anime who deals with literally anything else than that and those I can find to be the most interesting at times.

Great post. Imo shuichi as a concept is a very interesting character but not great execution.

I thought he did feel very accomplished as a detective, but stuff like the lying is pretty clunky. Outside of the first trial they either accomplish nothing or actively hurt the trial. It feels like it got slapped on near the end to emphasize the lies vs truth theme.

Speaking of the theme, it never really resonated for me. There's this weird thing where shuichi is working through his own issues while kaito and kokichi each represent a side of the spectrum, but it never feels like those things actually come together coherently. It's an interesting idea, especially with a detective mc, but the actual incorporation seemed clunky.

If you take dgr2, the big theme is hope for the future. But in the day-to-day gameplay, there's more focus on insecurity and social issues. Many characters have some kind of inferiority issues and difficult integrating, and I think it works better because it's more subtle but it's spread through more of the cast vs. The 5th time that we talk about kokichi being the ultimate liar. On an MC level, hajime felt way more relatable. He's more of an insert because he has no backstory, but his big thing from the very beginning is that he thinks he craves specialness. This was waaaaaay easier to relate to than truth and lies.

I also feel like shuichi is a lot more beta than hajime. Makoto is pretty big pushover, so I liked that hajime was more forward and had a wider range of reactions. With shuichi, it seems like we're the side character to kaito's strong personality, and many of his interactions with the cast feel pretty much the same. I think part of this is due to the cast being weirder than previous ones, so shuichi is forced into the straight man role more, but idk if anyone else believes that. Not much about shuichi's interaction with the cast made me feel more interested in them or made me see something that wasn't present in the group setting.

Overall, I actually think shuichi is a good concept of a character. Ever since dgr1, I strongly believed that another detective needed to be nerfed or needed to be the MC. Shuichi is nerfed in the sense that he doesn't want to use his abilities at first, but imo this isn't really meaningful because he solves everything anyway and all his mental issues do is add fluff dialogue and nonsensical decisions to the trials. I think it would make him a good partner character, as he could help with trials but he has an actual reason for letting you do the work. I also have issue with the fact that his relationship with kaito makes the player feel like the side character in the game we're playing, but that was already kinda discussed in the kaito thread.

I'm going to cut off my rambling here, but I see shuichi as a middle of the pack character. I think a lot of his flaws are a direct consequence of some of the larger issues of the game. He really feels like a slightly upgraded makoto, and I really wish they had tried to make something really new considering we're gifted the most OP talent in the game.

Speaking of the theme, it never really resonated for me. There's this weird thing where shuichi is working through his own issues while kaito and kokichi each represent a side of the spectrum, but it never feels like those things actually come together coherently.

yeah, this is a problem with v3 generally, imo. i went into it a bit here, but i find the game is really wishy-washy with its themes, especially the idea of lies/fiction and whether they have any inherent value. i think at the most simplistic level, it presents these two extremes, and alternately claims that both are equally valid, neither is especially valid, and the best place to be is right in between, none of which is a particularly enlightening theme, and all of which, working simultaneously, become confusing as fuck.

and yeah, it hits a character like shuichi, who's meant to be a conduit for these themes, particularly hard. if the game can't get straight what it wants to say about its primary theme, which imo it never really does, and then beats that theme into your head so didactically that there's no room for any other interpretation, it makes a character like shuichi feel very grey.

I think the whole theme of truth and lies are fine in general, but Shuichi's execution is just horrible. Shuichi absolutely doesn't show anything about the dilemma of truth and lies, he tells the truth 99% of the time and in the 1% that he actually lies it just doesn't work because the lie mechanic was more or less made mostly for Chapter 1 and 5 so for the rest of the game we just lie for "lulz" and "friendship". We have Kokichi as the king of lies and Kaito as the guardian of the truth, one would expect the protagonist to be the balancing factor between these two right? Nope, he is just Kaito but smart and looks more edgy. Shuichi doesn't have any meaningful conversation with Kokichi in the subject of lies, instead he just yells "Kokichi you lying prick" for 90% of the game with his bro Kaito and when he actually agrees with Kokichi absolutely nothing changes because the game just doesn't want Kokichi to leave any positive impressions on anyone whatsoever.

That is more or less why I find Shuichi to be extremely bland, they didn't bother making him any different from your average hope/despair protagonist even though the game's theme isn't that anymore so he also brings the "friendship" theme that is dominant in the other games with him and I just don't think truth&lies mesh that well with friendship whatsoever.

BTW I am always looking forward to your posts when I see discussion threads, you basically take words out of my mouth 99% of the time. Hope you never stop writing.

BTW I am always looking forward to your posts when I see discussion threads, you basically take words out of my mouth 99% of the time. Hope you never stop writing.

really? a worthless poster like me...? i'm truly honoured and unworthy of your praise.

You are absolutely worthy, why would I ever lie? Of course, you can truly show it to everyone by writing a praiseworthy writeup for Korekiyo in his thread in the upcoming weeks, wouldn't you agree? I am absolutely sure everyone would know your worth then, you can trust me wholeheartedly

spoiler alert: not only do i love korekiyo but i like him more for the sister fucking. the hottest v3 take of all.

Obligatory 

The whole "lie" thing is definitely more represented through Kokichi's character and then later in the finale with the characters learning that their entire existence is a lie. The "truth" part of the theme is fully defined by post chapter 1 Shuichi especially since Kaito as a "guardian of truth" makes no sense considering that what he did chapter 4 and 5 was literally the opposite of upholding the truth and that he kept lying to the others about his conditon, Kaito felt much more like a "guardian of belief" rather than a "guadian of truth" and Kokichi made opposition to him by adhering to the ideology that you only need pure logic to solve a trial and that belief was irrelevant. Can you even explain to me why you thought Kaito was a "guardian of the truth"?

Shuichi was in the middle of these two concepts, faith and logic (and not between truth and lies), so I feel like you need to rethink some of your allegations a little.

Agree, I thought that the game had something going with the idea of painful truth vs. kind lies, Chapter 4 being the clear representation of that. But it never really commits to that, instead it tries to pull various things under the umbrella of truth and lies. I compare it to writing an English paper and you're really trying to twist a quote to fit your thesis, even though you know it doesn't really help.

When the fiction vs. reality thing happened, I thought it was disjointed from that truth vs. lies thing. There's the debate on whether their existence being a lie meant something, but I feel like that's only loosely connected to the main theme.

I would have preferred it Tsumugi revealed everything, and the debate became less about what's fiction and what's reality, and more about which outcome they would prefer. Is it better if the world is destroyed, or is it better if society likes watching people murder each other on television? Would they prefer to just live in the academy forever, or should they confront the truth about the outside world? I think it would work better if they actually discussed all the inconsistencies and hints on whether or not Tsumugi was lying, came to the conclusion that they can't tell if she's lying or not, and then ultimately chose if they want to live a lie or put everything on the line to find the truth. Instead of the focus being "we are fiction because Tsumugi told us", it would be better to shift it to "is Tsumugi even telling the truth? And if we don't know, which would we rather believe?"

i feel what you're putting down, although your proposed example runs a little close to the ending of dr2. which, since we're on the subject: didn't dr2 execute a much more scaled down, much less convoluted version of the v3 ending, much more successfully?

there's the same idea of heightened/artificial reality that borders on body horror (the neo world program vs. implanted personalities), the same idea of the cast's culpability in their own fates (remnants of despair vs. opting into the killing game), the same swipe at meta-narrative (you are all characters in a computer program vs. you are all fictional), the same rejection of pressure from this all-seeing cabal that's aggressively lobbying you to make a particular decision (future foundation vs. viewing audience), the climactic but completely cosmetic rejection of 'hope' and 'despair' only to end the epilogue on an incredibly hopeful note regardless.

for as divisive as the v3 ending ended up being (i think this is mostly because it canonized the previous games as fictional in-universe), in a lot of ways, it's just a retread of the dr2 ending, just sloppier, more flamboyant, and with far less judiciousness and restraint on the part of the writers.

didn't dr2 execute a much more scaled down, much less convoluted version of the v3 ending, much more successfully?

Yeah, and I honestly wonder why it isn't brought up more often. V3 was far more ambitious but that's not a positive when it ended up being the trainwreck it was. My no. 1 complaint about V3 is that it is way too derivative of the previous games, to the point that the huge, series-altering twist is still pretty comparable to the last game.

To add to your comparison list, there's the team DR logo/warning at the start of the game, and DGR2 also had the little code scene when you start the game. They really just plucked a lot of the details and were like "this, but more"

the climactic but completely cosmetic rejection of 'hope' and 'despair' only to end the epilogue on an incredibly hopeful note regardless.

This one I kinda disagree with, because imo 2 was more about accepting hope and despair and looking to the future. Whereas v3 is explicitly rejecting the idea of hope. Which was another really cool idea (hope propagates the killing games instead of ending them) that didn't really get fleshed out.

But yeah I agree with everything else. I think the greatest appeal of the series is how it always defies your expectations, and I think V3 did a really poor job of that.

Also yeah, it occurred to me that what I was suggesting was close to DGR2's ending, I think the key difference is that everything Junko said was confirmed by Makoto and crew while Tsumugi's is still a mystery. But I also think that Tsumugi herself becomes a broke man's Junko and parts of her plot may or may not intentionally be based off Junko. So barring a complete rewrite it would be hard to flip what we got into something completely new.

This one I kinda disagree with, because imo 2 was more about accepting hope and despair and looking to the future. Whereas v3 is explicitly rejecting the idea of hope. Which was another really cool idea (hope propagates the killing games instead of ending them) that didn't really get fleshed out.

yeah, i guess my argument here is that it's a fakey-fake rejection. like, it lasts for the duration of the climactic class trial, and then after the mastermind is deposed, the three games all end on roughly similar notes: our protag and his band of brothers looking out upon a world that will provide them with challenges which they will take on with gusto. i'm having this convo in stereo elsewhere in the thread and i described it as the rejection of Hope The Danganronpa Concept but not actual hope, which is always abundant in any outcome.

Yeah then I 100% agree with that.

I feel like on the macro level V3 is too ambitious and tries to tie together too many things, but on the micro level there's too much copy-and-paste from the previous games. There's different opinions on the legitimacy of tropes, but I feel like they put too much focus on the overarching concepts than they did on the day-to-day gameplay. I honestly thought the game was a chore to play, and by the end it was a preachy chore.

yeah i'm inclined to agree. it's very odd in that the end twist seems designed to comment on how formulaic the rest of the game is, which justifies it for some players and i guess it's amusing enough on paper, but i'd rather just have a non-formulaic narrative with a different, better ending.

i never thought about the macro over-reach/micro under-deliver phenomenon you mention, but it's spot-on imo. it kinda felt like the writers felt some responsibility to make the theme depart from hope/despair, but then rammed it into the same narrative framework as any other hope/despair-based game, to diminishing returns. you can also see it in the constant innovative (if batshit) twists they tease (first blood perk? will we have to live with tenko's murderer? rantaro back from the dead?!?!?!) and then inevitably swerve away from at the last second in favour of more familiar territory.

continue this thread

Part 1 of 3

While I don't enjoy Shuichi's character all that much, I can say that he was a really well written protagonist whose arc was not only progressive from Chapter 1 to Chapter 6, but tied in well with the themes of the game.

Based on Shuichi's family life, we find that his parents often travelled a lot which left Shuichi alone by himself. Due to his parents' reoccurring absences, Shuichi's mentality and self esteem were badly damaged due to being neglected. I believe that Shuichi probably thought of himself as worthless because of how little love he received as a kid, and because of that lack of love Shuichi probably became desperate for any possible attention or approval he could get. Because of his unhealthy mindset, it's possible that Shuichi turned to doing detective work for his uncle just so that he could receive praise from someone. I say this because it didn't seem like Shuichi enjoyed his work all that much, at least not to the same level as Kirigiri. Because Shuichi felt worthless about himself, he turned to the field of crime solving so that he can make himself useful to one of his peers.

Shuichi's self esteem is hit even harder when he comes across a murder case and discovers the culprit before any of the authority could. While this feat is highly impressive, Shuichi felt ashamed of himself because of the sympathetic circumstances surrounding the killer's crime. In Shuichi's eyes, he convicted someone whose crimes were justified. Shuichi didn't feel proud for his deductions, he felt horrible about himself. He honestly believed that he never should have exposed the killer, and because he did his self-hatred only amplified. Looking at his backstory, we can see that Shuichi finds both himself and his talent to be worthless to him.

We now enter Chapter 1 where Shuichi first meets Kaede Akamatsu, an optimistic, friendly, and cheerful girl who takes the role of the leader pretty quickly in the story. Kaede takes an immediate interest in Shuichi's talent and encourages and supports him throughout the chapter. This feeling of approval and recognition that Shuichi craves for is given by Kaede, which makes Shuichi develop a strong emotional attachment.

However, tragedy strikes when Kaede helps Shuichi expose the truth: that she killed Rantaro Amami. Shuichi's biggest fear of confronting the truth rears its ugly head yet again for him when he sends Kaede, someone who was always thankful and supportive of him, to her death.

I feel that the beginning of Chapter 2 was when Shuichi was at his lowest. Shuichi is no longer willing to pursue the mastermind because he's likely worried that he will cause another death to occur. What makes Shuichi's confidence even worse is that he believes that he was fully responsible for letting Kaede attempt a murder plan. If you interact with the shot put balls and the vent in Chapter 2, you will find that Shuichi is beating himself over the fact that he allowed Kaede to try and kill the mastermind. He says things like "If I wasn't so careless, maybe things would have been different." Shuichi is falling into the same path as he did with his first case in blaming himself for another person's crimes. He is feeding into his self-hatred.

Thankfully, Kaito notices Shuichi's weakness and goes out to help him through his depression. Kaito and Kaede both share similar qualities in how supporting and charismatic they can be to others and it's the right kind of person that Shuichi needs in his time of crisis. So like Kaede, Shuichi becomes emotionally attached to Kaito's advice, even following with Kaito's philosophy in the second trial. And even when Kaito refers to him as something somewhat degrading as "sidekick", Shuichi doesn't really mind because he is just thankful that someone is there to support and compliment him. And this support is extremely vital to Shuichi's development in this chapter.

During the Chapter 2 trial, Kaito plays a huge part in not only helping Shuichi recognize his abilities as the Ultimate Detective, but to also not have to carry the burdens of exposing the culprit. Firstly, Kaito constantly rewards Shuichi's deductions throughout the trial which would have made Shuichi feel extremely happy about himself given that he want acknowledgement. Secondly, Kaito gives Shuichi the courage to not blame himself over Kirumi's conviction. When Kirumi reveals her motive, any hope in the room is eradicated and is replaced by concern over the future of the country, with some even thinking that they should have been the ones to die.

Shuichi: Then...what was the point of me doing all this....? Why did I reveal the truth? What have I done...? Was I wrong? I-I shouldn't have-

Shuichi is falling into the same unhealthy habit as he did with his two previous cases. He doesn't feel proud of his deductions, he feels terrible and is putting all the blame on himself when it was Kirumi's fault. That is until Kaito steps in:

Kaito: "What kind of face is that, Shuichi? If you're my sidekick, then suck it up!"

Shuichi: "Huh?"

Kaito: "That goes for all of you! To hell with this value of life shit! Life's not just some thing! You can't trade it or put a price on it!

Shuichi: "Kaito..."

Kaito: "And your life doesn't just belong to you. It's for your parents, your grandparents, your friends, even your neighbors."

Kaito's role in this chapter was vital to Shuichi moving forward. Not only did Kaito give Shuichi the reassurance he needed to help him recognize his talent as the Ultimate Detective, but he also helped Shuichi overcome his unhealthy tendency to blame himself for the actions of others. From this point on, Kaito's and Kaede's advice gave Shuichi the motivation to confront his biggest fear: exposing the truth.

Part 2 of 3

From Chapter 1 to Chapter 2, Shuichi's development comes in by him no longer doubting his abilities and himself. However, it is also important to note that he only accomplished this with the help of Kaede and Kaito. Specifically for Kaito, Shuichi became emotionally dependent on his words to help him push through, even going along with Kaito's belief system. From Chapter 3 on, Shuichi learns to no longer rely on other people, but instead on his own abilities as the Ultimate Detective.

I would say that Chapter 3 is the least impactful to Shuichi's development. However, that's not to say that Shuichi didn't have any moments of growth in this chapter. For starters, Shuichi begins to become more independent for himself when solving the murders. Because Kaito was unable to investigate the crime scenes Shuichi had to turn to Maki, someone who is generally cold to the rest of the cast. Maki lacks the supportive traits that Kaito encompasses which gives Shuichi room to become more confident in his own deductions. Kaito is still there to give encouragement, but it's no where near as essential to Shuichi's capabilities to find the culprit this time. The second moment of growth here, and something that I love, was Shuichi's inner thoughts before Tenko's investigation started.

Shuichi: Tenko's death caught us all off guard... Everyone is panicking. I have to keep it together. I have to work harder. Because I'm.... a detective.

I feel like this line was a nice end to Shuichi's arc in the first few chapters of the game. He becomes confident in his talent and takes some pride in it when at the beginning he always underplayed and doubted his talent.

We now reach Chapter 4 where we witness the clash between Shuichi and Kaito, Kokichi's influence, and the climax to Shuichi finally being able to expose the truth. We find out that Kokichi played a huge part in Miu's murder and manipulated the kind and lovable Gonta Gokuhara into committing the murder. The thought of him killing would be ridiculous to everyone, especially Kaito as we see when he aggressively defends him against all the evidence pointed at him. Because Kaito is a really charismatic leader and someone that Shuichi has grown to be strongly attached to, it wouldn't be surprising to see Shuichi be influenced by Kaito's defense and try to prove Gonta's name innocent(he could have even lied to protect him). The idea of everyone, but Gonta, dying would be the worst case scenario to Kokichi so to help Shuichi expose Gonta, he played a part in Kaito and Shuichi's friendship during the investigation and trial. Kokichi spends the entire investigation separating Kaito and Shuichi from interacting with each other as well as insulting Kaito's philosophy and intelligence. This was done for two things. First, Kokichi wanted Kaito to confront his flaws by having them blow up in his face. Second, Kokichi wanted to isolate Shuichi so that he wouldn't be influenced by Kaito's philosophy in the trial. Kokichi wanted Shuichi to confront the truth with logic.

And this plan works in the trial when more and more evidence begins to pile up against Gonta. The first moment of Shuichi's growth in this event happens when Gonta is first placed under suspicion.

Kaito: "He's lying about Gonta being the culprit, so there's no point talking about it!"

Shuichi: I don't know about that.... If we want the truth, we might have to ask uncomfortable questions.

Kaito: "Right, Shuichi? You think so too, don't you?"

Shuichi: "Huh? ...I know how important it is to believe. But as the Ultimate Detective...I know we can't solve this case with belief alone."

Kaito: "Huh?"

Shuichi: "It's just that....something doesn't add up. I have this feeling...something's off. We can't keep going back and forth like this. We need to discuss this."

Kaito: "What, you...wanna suspect Gonta?"

Kokichi: "Too bad, Kaito. Looks like Shuichi agrees with me. Oh, the irony! It's all thanks to Kaito that Shuichi got his act together as a detective... And now, Shuichi's intuition as a detective has made him more suspicious of others. Welp, can't be helped. That's just what a detective does."

This first moment emphasizes Shuichi's ability in growing out of Kaito's influence and no longer depending on what he has to say to help him. As Kokichi pointed it out, Shuichi has begun to act like an actually detective now that he is able to suspect even the kindest of people.

The second moment of Shuichi's growth happens before his PTA with Kaito when he proves that Gonta was outside of the mansion at the time of the murder.

Tsumugi: "Now you can't say Gonta's the culprit! Congrats Gonta!"

Gonta: "What?!?! Really?!?!"

Shuichi: ...It would have been so nice if that were the truth...If Kaito were right, and this horrible trial would just end...But...

Shuichi: "No...that's wrong..."

Kaito: "What?"

Shuichi: "Just because Gonta was at the mansion, doesn't mean that he isn't the culprit. All the culprit needed way a way to get from the roof to outside the mansion"

Gonta: "...Huh?"

Kokichi: "Neeheehee...looks like Shuichi got it. I'll leave the rest to him."

Kaito: "...."

Shuichi: "Kaito, I know how you feel, I know because we all feel it. But....we have to face the truth. No matter how cruel that truth may be, we need to face it...to survive."

Kaito: "Whose side are you on, Shuichi?"

Shuichi: "Kaito, please!"

Kaito: "Aren't you my sidekick!?" Was that...just a lie!?"

Shuichi: "Kaito!"

Kaito: Fine then! I'll tear that sorry reasoning of yours apart and wake you up!"

Shuichi: I cant doubt my detective work now. If I want us all to survive, I can't back down!

Kaito's objection and the evidence he provided could have easily been an option Shuichi could have taken, something he wanted to take. However, Shuichi has built up the courage over the course of the game to look through the happy ending and prove the horrific truth that Gonta was the culprit. Kaito being the one who provided the evidence is also important in symbolizing how Shuichi is no longer dependent on Kaito and has started to rely on his deductions and intuition as the Ultimate Detective, something that he used to find useless. I find it really unlikely that Chapter 1-Chapter 2 Shuichi could have the confidence to uncover this truth by himself with no one to back him up.

One small detail that I love, while not really having much to do with Shuichi's growth, is when he comforted Gonta when going over the murder at the end. His attitude to Gonta during the whole climax inference perfectly conveyed the differences between him, Kokichi, and Kaito. Kokichi relies on logic, Kaito relies on faith, and Shuichi represents the middle ground where he relies on both faith and logic. We can see how Kaito's and Kokichi's strategies are both problematic and show how you need both qualities. Kokichi was trying to psychologically corner Gonta into making him confess which makes him more and more distressed. Kaito believes in Gonta's innocence to the point where he denies all evidence that points to Gonta. Shuichi is able to suspect his fellow classmates, but is still able to show compassion to others.

I would say that Chapter 4 was the highlight for Shuichi's development and displayed the most growth. He built up the courage to not only confront the truth, no matter how horrible it is, but he also is able to grow out of his emotional dependency and think for himself.

Chapter 5 is where we see Shuichi being able to fully depend on himself when everyone else was against him. I didn't mention it for the Chapter 4 part, but Kokichi does give Shuichi hints throughout the trial to help him solve the mysteries. Here though? Not the case. Kaito, Shuichi's emotional crutch, has distanced himself from Shuichi for most of the daily life. Not only that, but Maki and Himiko are both uncooperative in the trial and are both concealing information from Shuichi. To top it all off, Kokichi has set up an elaborate and extremely complex murder that even stumps Monokuma. However, Shuichi is still able to solve the case when the only thing supporting him the entire way was his pursuit of the truth, something that he was originally afraid of.

I also really appreciate how Kaito mentions how he always knew that Shuichi will be able to solve the whole case which I find to be a nice end to their friendship.

Finally in Chapter 6, we reach the end of the story where Shuichi decides that instead of choosing hope, he simply does not partake in the trial and defeats Danganronpa. I find this decision to be fitting to Shuichi's arc in a meta sense. In the latter half of the game, Shuichi grows out of his emotional dependency for Kaito and is able to rely on himself. Him rejecting the Hope ending, to me, symbolized his development of self-confidence over the game because he chooses to not rely on the "Happy" ending that would be granted to him and instead makes a decision based off of his own logic and reasoning. And this decision creates a far happier ending.

Shuichi's development throughout the game is well written, well paced, and fitting for the themes of truth and lies.

(Part 3 will be added in a bit.)

Part 3 of 3

Even though I feel that Shuichi was well written for the writers were trying to do, I have a lot of personal gripes with him and I feel that Shuichi symbolizes a huge problem with this game being formulaic. The reason why Chapter 1 was my favorite chapter from the game was because the writers were experimenting a lot. Kaede's character and dynamic with the rest of the cast was fresh and was a kind of protagonist that we have never played as before. Her being a natural leader and working with Shuichi to try and capture the mastermind from the start were interesting and creative ideas that brought a lot of potential that could be explored. The writers were stepping out of their comfort zone and trying different things to bring life to the series.

But then Kaede ends up dying in Chapter 1 and we are switched to playing as Shuichi for the rest of the game. Shuichi's character consists of a lot of traits that the writers have done before with past characters from his interactions to the cast(where he is mainly the straight man and just reacts to people instead of making conversation like Kaede did) to his arc(low self esteem kid grows confidence over the game). The writers went right back to their comfort zone, and that honestly frustrates me! And all the interesting scenarios and possibilities with the protagonist being active in investigating the school seen in Chapter 1 are gone also. All we have is Shuichi saying to himself that he needs to do this and that and how he needs to solve this mystery or find out whatever Kokichi is up to. But instead of actually doing them, we just transfer into free time event mode. I understand that Shuichi no longer wants to investigate the mysteries school considering that's what Kaede did and she got killed, but the writers could have done a better job at this. I would have at least wished that Shuichi reflected on this habit of his in Chapter 6 and said to himself something like "I promised to Kaede to help everyone escape this place, but I haven't been doing anything!"

I like how the protagonist switch was handled in game, but it would have been far far better if Shuichi was the decoy protagonist and Kaede was the true protagonist. It would have been a great way at subverting expectations in a positive way where at first glance we see that the protagonist is pretty similar to past protagonists, but Chapter 1 goes and turns things on our head and we are given a new dynamic and original character to play as. It would live up to the "New" in New Danganronpa V3.

I like Shuichi. I think his arc was well paced over the course of the game and he made for a satisfying survivor. That being said, I can't come to enjoy his character all that much personally because of how formulaic and by the numbers his character is as a protagonist.

Where's part 3?

I have been busy these past few days so I haven't really got the time to sit down and finish it.

Ah I see.

It's finally here now!

As a character, Shuichi frustrates me the more I think about him. Imo, his arc is kind of a mess but I guess, that's a given when the narrative keeps switching perspectives at vital moments and Shuichi himself seems to adopt two different personalities in the daily life segments and in trials: being awkwardly passive and confidently competent respectively (which I guess makes sense somewhat given his talent but I just wished there was less of a disconnect between the two). It feels that the writers didn't exactly know what to do with him once his arc peaked in Chapter 1 and may have thought it was fine to just leave him filling the role of bland protagonist. Still, my main problem with Shuichi isn't exactly his arc but the expectations that he built up before taking up the protagonist spot. I'm a fan of Chapter 1 Shuichi....you may even call him my fave then. Sure, my weakness for the character archetype he represents (the shy, weak-willed and excessively polite characters similar to Chihiro) may have played a part but besides these superficial reasons, I quite like his proactive role in the chapter, his dynamic with Kaede and how his backstory relates to his personality, uncovering very much like a FTE from a previous game except that it's part of the main story. For me, all of this made for a great prelude to Protag!Shuichi but unfortunately, he didn't quite live up to expectations. After Chapter 1, he lost all his proactiveness, most of his interactions were bland (with the one exception being with Kaito) and we already got all we could from his backstory. The best of Shuichi has already been exhausted, leaving in his wake a cold shell who doesn't even try to claim his title as Ultimate Detective.

Another thing that played with expectations during the first chapter was his heartfelt promise with Kaede before his execution which really plays up the idea that Shuichi would continue Kaede's quest to uncover the mastermind and stop the killing game, really hyping up the prospect of Shuichi as the protagonist for me. Now, he has a clear goal! We have to solve the mystery for Kaede! But unfortunately, Shuichi had a different interpretation of 'revealing the truth', reserving his detective prowess only for investigations and class trials which is understandable given his trauma after Kaede's death but isn't quite as reasonable from a gameplay perspective where the player's constantly thinking of the mystery behind the killing game while the player character seemed to be just fine going about with his business, moping and hanging out with friends until a murder occurs (I exaggerate somewhat). It doesn't help that V3's a bit more sparse in terms of events so Shuichi seems less busy than the protagonists before (at least from what I remember).

Not only did Shuichi had to live up to his Chapter 1 self but also to two generally well-regarded DR characters as well: to Kaede as the protagonist and to Kirigiri as another Ultimate Detective and he fails on all accounts imo. Kaede was already someone set to be the 'different' protagonist by her gender alone and she added to that by her animated interactions and proactive role in Chapter 1. Killing her after she was heavily promoted and had proven herself as a unique protagonist to replace her with a passive, bland more-of-the-same male (again I exaggerate) was bound to incite some unfortunate implications and lead to comparisons. As Ultimate Detective, he's good enough as a different interpretation of a similar Ultimate but it's unlucky that Kirigiri was his predecessor as she was someone who maintained her pro-activeness throughout the game and actually investigated outside of Investigation Time. It helped in her case that these additional investigations were kept mostly behind the scenes. Speaking of different interpretations of similar Ultimates (and luck), Komaeda did it better.

Sigh, I used to like Shuichi but now, I just can't help to think that he was all hype and little pay-off. Maybe that's why I may sound overly harsh and critical with him but I just wanted so much from him...if only he was used in a different way.

Also, I realise protagonist swaps trigger me now, especially when they replace an outspoken, confident female with a timid, soft-spoken male. No, manga, your female MC was fine (I actually don't mind it as much in this manga but still, my wounds are fresh).

I think he was exactly meant to be that stereotypical passive male. It leads up to his breakdowns and his portrayal of his feelings. While Miu hides her feelings in farce of confidence, Shuichi almost does the opposite. This lack of emotion pays off during scenes like his complete and utter hatred for the killing game at the end. (personally)

It's fair if you think that way. To me, the pay off isn't enough though and I can't help feeling a sense of disconnect. It just makes him seem like another character because he acts differently most of the time and reserves all these emotions when the plot demands for it. I did like his sudden hat-related outburst to Miu in Chapter 1 though and if there were more scenes like that outside of trials (where he has sudden outburst of emotions while generally being passive like how Miu reduces into submissiveness sometimes), I would have probably agreed with what you said.

Now, if before I give my opinion on Shuichi, you should know that my biggest weakness when it comes to characters is relateability, if I have a lot in common with them, I'll like them. That's why I like Gonta, Chihiro, Keebo a lot, even if technically they aren't the greatest characters (except for Keebo). Shuichi, is a really relateable character to me, and he's my favourite protagonist. I think with Makoto, the cast was good, but Makoto's character was too weak. Hajime was a good protagonist, but his character was almost always overshadowed by the over-the-top DR2 cast, DRV3 stroke a good balance between a great protagonist and a great cast.

Right off the bat, he has my favourite backstory for a protagonist. I like how he became the ultimate detective, being given the title for simply solving one crime. However, he hates himself for it because of the guilt he felt catching the person. It's a good way to setup how he feels about catching culprits and explains a lot about his weaknesses.

His personality is pretty relatable. He's polite, he's kind, he has a lack of self-confidence, can be very determined when the situation calls for it (like with the mastermind door), etc. I can relate to almost a lot when it comes to Shuichi. He has a neat personality. He has an overall good development, and his conversations with the other students are quite charming. I think it also helps that you see Shuichi's sprite so you feel like Shuichi, the character, is talking to the cast whether then you are talking to them, which is refreshing. Shuichi's best moment it without a doubt in the final trial, here he uses an ideology, you can't have too much hope or it could cause despair for other people, and you can't solely rely on hope, that's brilliant.it also shows how much he has grown as a character, after the last Argument Armament, he's confident that the audience didn't vote. That's pretty huge for Shuichi's character.

That's pretty much it, I could talk about his contribution, but we all need how much Shuichi contributes to the plot and class trials. I don't feel like I can speak on a technical level with Shuichi, I will admit he has his shortcomings (he tends to contradict himself before free time events, he can be too trusting of people, etc.) However I can forgive those, since I think Shuichi's positives outweigh the negatives.

First off wow. 138 comments and it hasn't even been 24 hours yet.

So... Everyone else has written an essay. So I'll keep it short and sweet. I like him. That's about it. My reasons are simple and not worth talking about. So there. That's it. Boom.

I was a bit too burnt out on these discussion threads to fully contribute like I normally would. But I was glad to see /u/sparkofgingersticks
 and /u/the_guradian
 sum up what I love about Shuichi. I was hesitant at first, it did feel like a step backwards going from Kaede to Shuichi, but he won me over. I found him easily sympathetic, he complimented the game's themes well, his arc is well paced throughout the game (well, minus chapter 3, I guess,) and I am one of those people that think if we're going to have a detective, they should be the player character.

Of course with everyone else summing up what I like about him in such great detail, I guess I'm left to talk about a part of him I don't necessarily dislike but found unsatisfying.

One of the things I liked about Shuichi was this freedom to explore angles of the Ultimate Detective role that wouldn't really have worked with Kyoko, it's a clever way of reusing a talent without feeling like a rehash. And one of these perspectives is alluded to at the beginning of chapter 4,

The only time I can use my detective talent is after someone dies...

A detective...can't save anyone. I'm only useful after it's already too late.

Kyoko was consistently looking at the bigger picture, trying to uncover the mastermind in order to stop the game outright. I'm sure she wasn't unsympathetic to the deaths around her, but we never really got to see her beat herself up over it. It's an admirable level of determination and it suits her kuudere nature, but it's also kind of refreshing to see this more regretful approach to things.

It's just a shame that this is pretty much the only time the game really acknowledges it.

Shuichi is used to tell a story of how revealing the truth can cause more harm than good. And that's a good story to tell, it ties into the game's themes nicely, but Shuichi wasn't the only character that was telling this story. Granted the theme of Truth V Lies is kind of vast and you need multiple perspectives to really do it justice, but I feel like there was room to do more with this discussion as well if they just toned down the Truth V Lies rhetoric a bit.

The quote's suit Shuichi's self-loathing towards the Ultimate Detective talent. It acknowledges the dissatisfaction with simply avenging the death and how it should still weigh on the characters minds instead of just being forgotten about in the next chapter.

With the exception of chapter 4, I don't even think the main story needs a lot of revising to incorporate this discussion. In chapter 1, Shuichi can blame himself for not realising what Kaede was up to literally right in front of him until it was too late. In chapter 2, he can be the one that has doubts about whether they made the right call with the Kubspads when he and Kaito go to Ryoma's room. In chapter 3, he's just a few feet away from Tenko during her final moments. And in chapter 5, Kaito tells him "I can't just do nothing whilst you guys are doing all the hard work." and Shuichi could've blamed himself for not trying to dissuade him from taking matters into his own hands.

Even the final chapter as it's currently written offers a nice resolution to the journey. Instead of dwelling on his failings in the past, Shuichi is finally looking towards the future. He realises that if him and Himiko leave and Maki and Keebo stays, nothing changes. The killing game will go on. Two of his friends will suffer all over again, along with a dozen more strangers. Finally he's ready to stop a killing from happening before it's too late.

The framework is all there in V3's set-up. But all we got was this one line in chapter 4 that was never followed up on. This is one of those things that they kind of needed to either go all in with, or not mention at all. Instead, they abandon and interesting story arc and the net result is many people felt like Shuichi spent too much time complaining and not enough time trying to change the situation. And I understand how the game tries to justify his reluctance to use his talent, but it's not going to resonate with everyone when the guilt over what happened to Kaede can be interpreted both ways like this; him doing the wrong thing and not doing enough.

Still love him despite all of this. But this decision irks me.

And I understand how the game tries to justify his reluctance to use his talent, but it's not going to resonate with everyone when the guilt over what happened to Kaede can be interpreted both ways like this; him doing the wrong thing and not doing enough.

Definitely agree with this. Shuichi is easily very perceptive when connecting the dots in the trials as he rarely needs help or supplementation and I can see that the developers were careful about this bit when incorporating him into the story. Yet there's the problem that, since the previous games and protagonists have set a foundation to work upon, Shuichi needs to be nerfed during these daily life segments so he can become a bystander to the events that unfold before him, rather than actively being a participant (otherwise the killings won't happen and that's not Danganronpa). This was a problem that could have easily been averted if Shuichi's investigative attempts were sound, only fruitless, exemplifying the unfair nature of the killing game where only after enough sacrifices are the rest able to move forward.

That would be a good work around. So long as he's trying to find secrets behind Monokuma even if it produces no results, would be satisfactory.

Some people would still point out that he was a shitty detective for not finding things like the bathroom passage (like Kyoko was able to) if he was actively searching.

I do think that if Shuichi wasn't nerfed by his personality, that the game could've ended sooner but alas we needed to have a plot.

Yeah, a big part of why I dislike Shuichi is absolutely due to how the game in my opinion forces me to sympathize when he's not mechanic-wise doing any different from his predecessors aside from lying and more importantly that his pain of exposing the truth makes no sense when the characters aren't really his friends to start with.

In comparison, this question of whether to expose the truth or not is very relevant in Umineko because the game revolves around dark family secrets exposing some of the truths breaks some of the characters (And I should add too that among these characters is an abused child with a single mom), and Umineko end spoilers. Needless to say Shuichi's arc just isn't that well-done in context of the game because of the problems you mentioned and also the concern that not exposing the truth would cause everyone to die, so it's like 'Why so emo?'

Needless to say Shuichi's arc just isn't that well-done in context of the game because of the problems you mentioned and also the concern that not exposing the truth would cause everyone to die, so it's like 'Why so emo?'

He is afraid of making mistakes and dooming people he considers justified in the process (like for example, when he deducted that there was a mastemind around them and that led Kaede to kill) and condeming someone who he felt that didn't deserve to die, that was clear in chapter 1 and chapter 2. After these two chapters he stops having hesitation regarding exposing the truth so he wasn't "emo" for the sake of being so.

him doing the wrong thing and not doing enough

From the character's perspective it's obvious that Shuichi thought the first thing. It's pretty open by how he keeps blaming himself for supposedly having the wrong deduction and telling it to Kaede and then by being incapable of noticing her plan when she was adjusting it.

Yes, the former is what the game is going for, but the latter is what many people took away from the rest of the game and I understand where they're coming from.

i'll get right down to brass tacks: i find shuichi really beige. every other protagonist, for me, brings something unique to the table. makoto is a pretty shallow collection of anime tropes, but he's at least a solidly constructed character -- his beginning-to-end throughline of ultimate lucky student to ultimate hope is well-built, from a storytelling perspective, even if it's not especially innovative. he's also saddled with the least cooperative cast, so he faces meaningful adversity. hajime is distinguished slightly by his cynicism (your mileage may vary on whether this is enough to elevate him), and the chapter six izuru revelation is the most profound ethical/moral crisis any protagonist faces. i'm no great komaru fan, since she leans far too hard into the repetitive 'poor normal girl' routine for my liking, but the very structure of dr:ae at least gives her a unique game to hang her hat on. and i think kaede is an excellent protagonist for reasons i'll delve into next week.

by contrast, i fail to think of anything that really distinguishes shuichi from his counterparts. he's... slightly more serious? level-headed? which like... oh joy. in the words of tony schiavone, 'that'll put some butts in the seats.' i've just come off a v3 replay, like i finished it two days ago, and i couldn't really tell you the trajectory of shuichi's character. he has his nonsense about his detective past and subsequent guilt and insecurity, which comes up during chapter one to establish his backstory and then is never directly touched upon again. he's motivated by kaede's death, when he remembers she exists, but that's nothing new -- sayaka took a similar dive to fuel makoto in the first game. he spends the middle section of the game riding shotgun to the power couple of maki and kaito, which... is fine. not amazing, but fine. he's largely beloved amongst his cast and, upon becoming playable, never suspected of anything. he faces a few crises here and there when his detective work leads him down some difficult paths -- indicting gonta in case four, suspecting maki in case five -- but that's the occupational hazard of a danganronpa protagonist. think of makoto vs. kyoko in case five of the first game, or hajime having to sentence chiaki, both of which struck me as more emotionally compelling dilemmas than anything shuichi faced.

the one trauma shuichi does have to tackle that no other protag faces is the chapter six reveal that, surprise, you're fictional, bitch! and he sort of does what he has to do there, has his requisite existential meltdown before coming around and lashing out against tsumugi and the audience and whatever. and there's something i admire about his actions here, how he chooses to end it all in death and how motivated by spite he seems to be. it's a very dark finale and i appreciate his part in it. but of course, shuichi survives, which dulls the subversiveness of the ending, and independently of that: like i've said before, it doesn't feel like this ending is particularly reflective of shuichi, his character or his story. it just sort of feels like... how the game had to end, you know? like kodaka had decided that the game would end with this metafictional twist that would upend all of the development that proceeded it, the protagonist would have their little speech about how their feelings were real before rejecting both hope and despair, and that would be the end of the game. that shuichi is the vessel to deliver this outcome feels like happenstance.

i don't expect this opinion to be well-received, which is chill. i'm very interested to see the discussion that unfolds this week, because shuichi has a lot of very vocal fans and i've never been able to figure out why. i remember finishing the game and seeing other players enthuse that shuichi was the best dr protagonist ever, which blew my mind. to me, he's the least interesting by leagues, like it's not even a contest. i'd love to read something that changes my mind though.

At first, I didn't even want to post anything here because there's seemingly nothing I can talk about here without sounding repetitive all the time, so I won't say much. I mean, it's not like I'm obligated to write an obituary or something...

While the entire debacle with Chapter 1 certainly didn't help Shuichi in my eyes, it's entirely irrelevant to what I think of him as a character.

You see... DanganRonpa is full of characters that stand out in their own way, and it's pretty much a given that at least one of them will really appeal to you and at least one whose mere existence will piss you off. In the end, no matter how god-awfully a character was presented or how utterly one-note they are, at the very least you can be sure that you'll never forget those characters.

I cannot say the same for its protagonists. While I don't hate them, every single one of them (except for Komaru) feels like nothing more than walking response machines who just react to their surroundings (frequently in an utterly embarrassing display, I might add) and get overshadowed by their colleagues in almost every way. Out of the three DR protagonists, I definitely prefer Makoto, but that's mostly because at least his responses feel more natural, he actually has a genuine chemistry of his own with characters like Kyoko and because he's... just such an adorable-looking boy that I honestly can't detest him... but yes, he has that utterly embarrassing performance every now and then (like his purple prose mode whenever something slightly unfortunate happens... which is almost every fucking time)...

All that aside, Shuichi usually finds himself among my absolute least favorite characters among the 48 DR students, and that's because as a character he commits the biggest crime you could ever do in my book: Being boring as all hell.

Because, to put it bluntly, I find Shuichi to be the most boring DanganRonpa character I have ever witnessed.

(He's only "beaten" by Junko in terms of "Most Hated DanganRonpa Character" because she managed to piss me off in a way no other fictional character could: Single-handedly throw all good writing out the window merely by being involved and replace it with brainfucking yet headache-inducingly-dreary exposition... and bullshit plot devices like DESPAIR DISEASE or BRAINWASHING ANIME...)

It's no more apparent than in V3 that I play as a character so drained of life or personality, that he almost feels like a black hole all on his own. While just about every single character around him spend their time being characters, this dude is just kind of there to me.

Not once did he feel engaging to me, and I ended up simply not giving a shit about his "self-doubt" or "continuing Kaede's wish" or whatever backstory he had... I can never find myself to care about any of those if I find the very character to be the equivalent of watching paint dry.

This "boredom" problem kind of applies to many of his sprites (of all things) as well. I don't expect Ibuki-levels of expressiveness, but I would be glad if I found at least one sprite that felt recognizable or unique in a way. Mind you, not all of his sprites are truly bad, but I have several problems with his crying sprites... they're unnatural. This may sound weird, but I find it strangely adorable as hell when I see a character cry like a child, and a lot of characters in DR have sprites that portray them this way... Fuyuhiko and Peko are two shining examples of that. But Shuichi? Whenever I see him cry, it feels less like he actually cries, but more like the entire white color of his face starts to drain and thus leaks out of his eyes (why else would his tears nearly be the same color as his skin?). It's hard to put into words, but it's very hard to take seriously... or to find adorable.

Also, while I did decide not to bring up anything Chapter-1-centric again, I will have to say that him pulling off his hat and revealing his ahoge in Chapter 2 was one of the biggest middle fingers Kodaka could ever give to me... it's utterly hilarious how a single strand of hair can piss me off this much. Nothing more than a reminder that Kodaka refuses to be more imaginative and just decides to stick to recurring trends, because that's just the easy way out.

And... that's about it. There really isn't a lot I can say about him, I just really don't like him as a protagonist. Being dreadfully boring is easily the worst character trait anyone can have in my eyes, which is why I'm generally not the type to gush over protagonist characters (in all of media, not just here), by virtue of them being not too interesting to me. I'm more the type to gush over villains (except for Junko, she can go fuck herself with a cactus) or generally underrated characters, my tastes are truly unpredictable.

Anyone who's reading this most likely has a better idea than I do, but I don't care about anything else Shuichi might deliver. I find him to be so boring that I just overlook everything else about him.

Downvote me, send me death threats, whatever, but please spare me your essay-length attempts to change my opinion with how I just "get Shuichi wrong" or how "Kaede wouldn't have been a better protagonist!", I really fail to see anything engaging in him.

I won't say much

Does the exact opposite... again.

Downvote me, send me death threats, whatever, but please spare me your essay-length attempts to change my opinion with how I just "get Shuichi wrong" or how "Kaede wouldn't have been a better protagonist!", I really fail to see anything engaging in him.

there's no getting a character "wrong" or "right" just several opinions and yours is just as fine as any others. ik you're over exaggerating to say the bit about death threats but really that's a bit too much. this fanbase is wild af but not enough for that. i don't think anyone approaches discussion in 2018 to change someone's opinions (aside from idiot 12yr olds.) arguments may seem heated but that is never the goal. i'm getting sort of tired of seeing nearly every post filled with a passive aggressive call out to the opposition by imitating them or showing them in the worst light.

I must apologize for those remarks, actually. It had nothing to do with my actual opinions whatsoever, I was just in a completely shitty mood at the time I wrote this, and I instinctively felt like letting out some steam.

Even for someone like me, that behavior was just infantile.

...

no, i apologize. you're far too understanding and nice. i get carried away with what i say often too esp when i'm being emotional about a topic, so really sorry about presuming wrongly. thanks for taking it well.

I don't see the need for you to apologize. It was completely right of you to call me out on my blatant attempt at inciting anger with those remarks. You didn't presume wrongly, I'm merely the type of guy who will quickly regret just about anything he does, no matter how "good" it felt at the time I did it.

you needn't regret it tho, the only reason i even notice it as strongly is bc i talked like a lunatic (blame 4chan) when i tried to discuss shit and rereading my own stuff makes me look like a salty prune. i wrongly assumed stuff about you and probably didn't need to make that comment, that's why my apologies.

Well, we do tick differently in some way. Regardless, I appreciate it when I get a reality check or something... 'cause I sure as hell suck at doing that myself quickly enough.

as long as you don't hold it against me. thanks for being this nice really.

No problem. But I will say that my last point about people giving me their essay-length "justifications" still kind of holds true. Too many times have there been half-assed attempts by people to twist another's opinion or argument just to fit their own narrative instead of just accepting it.

I just want none of that. Shuichi is too boring for me, and I just can't be arsed to think otherwise.

buncha canadians in here

As a matter of fact, I am actually a German.

continue this thread

there's no getting a character "wrong" or "right" just several opinions and yours is just as fine as any others.

I think that train of thought has its limits. I can say Junko did nothing wrong and she was meant to be perceived as a victim of society and an allegory for school shooters but that would be bullshit.

junko enoshima is a misunderstood angel who shows her love through murder

it was a specific statement made in context of what xiristatos said but seeing how there are random ass theories about literally anything, what you said as a joke might just be someone's line of >objectively true< thinking.

-2 points 1 month ago 
With the way you speak it honestly seems like you'd hate any protagonist character. Like, if Kaede lived and stayed as the protagonist it honestly seems like you'd come to hate her eventually, no matter what. Especially since she is relatively more bland than Shuichi was.

It certainly seems that way, yes, but I'm never going so far as to immediately hate any kind of protagonist... I'm not THAT nasty. I'm merely saying the three DR protagonists we have just awkwardly react to their surroundings and people, which I do consider to be bad. I excluded Komaru entirely because she doesn't have this problem at all, given the type of game you play as her in.

I did say I'm not one to gush over protagonists right off the bat, but that does not mean the same as me immediately hating them with no grounds. That's just retarded. And as a main protagonist, I would have actually enjoyed playing as Kaede, because with her different characterization from the other three it actually feels like I'd be playing as a character, and not merely an "awkward response" machine.

I completely disagree with the implication that the three protagonists are all the same and are just "an awkward response" machine. I like Kaede too but Kodaka specifically said she was created with the prior protags in mind, so she has more in common with them than what you might think. Other thing he said about her is that she's "annoyingly unable to give up hope", all things considered we might have had a full on hope protagonist just like Makoto was (which means you'd eventually come to hate her anyway).

Then at the very least that's what it felt like to me. I didn't notice it too much with Makoto, but Hajime had enough embarrassing responses that I got into this way of thinking, and Shuichi just did the rest to me... but now that you mention it, I actually really can't explain just why I like Kaede so much, to be completely honest. I just... kind of do.

The same can be said for a lot of characters here, actually. I don't see a truly positive trait or "development" to have a reason to like them, but I merely love the characters the way they are, in the most simplistic way possible. Leon is a pretty good example of this, and the same counts for Rantaro.

But yes, right now I think it's pretty weird that I like Kaede even though you just said she's just as bland as Shuichi, but I just didn't get that feeling. Kaede was engaging to me, and Shuichi just wasn't. It might have something to do with the fact that I merely found the three main protagonists to be kind of embarrassing to almost everyone around them... but not Kaede.

Ok, I think I found the reason I have a preferrence for Kaede: She's not another cynical no-confidence-in-themselves protagonist. I mean I know Makoto doesn't count as this, but I'm just saying... Kaede doesn't have anything that holds her back for me... simple as that.

All that being said, I would like to correct you on your thinking that I outright hate all the protagonists. I explicitly said so in my original comment, It's just that I'm not as fond of them as I am with the supporting characters... or Kaede, for that matter. And I did state that I like Makoto the most out of the protagonists, but of course he's not perfect, no character is. My boy Korekiyo has plenty of flaws, yet he's still firmly my favorite thing ever.

And while this is rather irrelevant to your main point, I would just like to say that Kodaka can intend whatever he wants, any part of the fanbase could interpret it "wrongly" in some way. Intentions don't mean shit if a majority of the fanbase will hate that something. I mean for all I know, he probably intended for SDR2's Chapter 3 to not be the worst thing ever since traffic jams, and he'd be completely wrong about that.

A creator's intention is just like any character's backstory; it definitely helps explain a lot of the things that happened, but it's no free pass to do whatever they please.

load more comments (43 replies)

Really want one of those unpopular opinion threads to show up so i can shittalk some people who are regulars in these. I don't even know what i can add, /u/the_guradian
's post is already exactly what i think.

Maybe...Shuichi is the first main series protagonist who is a complete independent character separate from the role of protagonist?
Makoto is the self-insert done wrong so he's out. Hajime is the self-insert done right, i love Hajime and he's my favorite out of all protagonists but he works precisely because he's made to fill that role so well, if you look at everyone in the cast separately, Hajime simultaneously blends in because he's so normal but also sticks out because he acts so different from everyone else. Even Komaru, who i love so much, and is also a very good complete character with her own arc, has strong ties to the typical Danganronpa protag archetype, even if she tries to subvert it somewhat.

Shuichi immediately starts out with his own personality, quirks, struggles, interests, likes, dislikes, habits, and thoughts. He has a true ultimate talent, unlike anyone before him(well, except Kaede) and said ultimate talent is visible in his actions, as he's one of the smartest ones around and the one everyone relies on for crimesolving, even as soon as chapter 1 he shows critical thinking and observation skills, the other protagonists are good at solving crimes more because of the gameplay the series wants to have than because their character is constructed around that. It's a key difference that plays a important role in his character. He even has a backstory!

Shuichi is an ultimate detective with the skills to back that talent up and a full character arc related to said talent and the struggles he has with it. The difference in this approach is that while Hajime had interesting interactions to add to conversations while you find out more about the characters, Shuichi ends up having a similar problem to Makoto where he DOESN'T and in FTEs he's, well, an excellent listener! Not really adding much of his own and that's because his character is meant for a story where there isn't really a lot of random backstory sharing between segments. He shines when his arc and personality have a place in the moment, he can't simply rely on his general personality to carry him through light scenes like Hajime and Komaru can. On the other hand, he has so much more to do during important scenes than just act nervous and point fingers, his actions when they are allowed to shine give him more meaning and show more of his depth where Hajime wouldn't be able to because he actually has a character arc meant to evolve gradually through the story.

The result is that Shuichi has higher highs and lower lows than the others, and can often feel disconnected from the player as although he does fit the japanese protagonist archetype, he goes much more out of the relatable self-insert route than the other protagonists.

I don't know how to end this. It's not that this aspect of Shuichi is good or makes him explicitly better than the others, i still think Hajime is the best, and that having a endearing/entertaining scene-by-scene personality is a extremely important part of any Danganronpa character, but Shuichi can compensate by adding to the key scenes what the others can't because of the archetype they're stuck on. Shuichi is pretty fun and a better ultimate detective character than Kyoko.

And i love how in this thread in particular, the user you mentioned (who i also agree with) is getting downvoted like there's no tomorrow, it's like an organized hate train runned by Shuichi's hatedom. (in other words: fuckwads)

oh now look at what you've done. silly dodo only shuichi fans are the obnoxious ones, don't u see.

I don't expect to get treated well for this, but here we go anyway.

I've seen people talk about how straightforward V3 characters can get, let it be Gonta or Kaito. For me, Shuichi is as straightforward and mundane as the characters in the game get.

Now to be clear, I don't hate Shuichi. He does have a conclusive character arc and his chemistry with Kaito fleshes out his more casual wits, which I truly appreciate. But when you factor in how his character is handled throughout the game, everything about his steps to glory as a protagonist feels really cliched and formulaic.

Now stop me if you've heard this: A nervous protagonist who lacks self confidence and enters a journey to find said confidence, all the while interacting with every character they come across by reacting to their quirks passively. If your answer is every highschool underdog ever, then no fucking shit.

I'm not saying it's wrong to follow a trope. Kaito is not exactly original on a technical standpoint either, what with being extra Kamina-like, but what made him stand out as well as he did is how he subverts a lot of DR's common tropes and just how complete his personality is with how he interacts with the cast, from his constant frustration with Kokichi, to his concern for Shuichi and Maki. He actively seeks interaction with his friends, which ultimately helps with what DR typically focuses on; character interactions.

So when you throw in a main character who doesn't actively seek to interact or question the stories of his friends like Shuichi, it's easier to see how lazy his character is put together. I seriously can't think of an instance, FTE or otherwise, where Shuichi actively cracks a joke to one of the minor characters. He plays the audience to his friends more than the actual DR audience, and that's saying something. He might be more relatable to people with social anxiety, but even those people I don't imagine would be this humorless and broad. I get that there is the whole ending conspiracy with tackling Shuichi's sensitivity over his talent, but the ending is too random for the impact to really hit home either way, so I don't really find it that meaningful.

Granted, he's cute and has some cool moments like the times he roasts Kokichi and Monokuma, so I wouldn't put Shuichi below someone like Makoto (I mean, you really need to suck hard to fall that low). That said, I still find him really underwhelming compared to what he could've been. Not mentioning any names, but he could've learned a little more from the one he looked up to fairly strongly, possibly showing the nuance of how much their persona rubbed on him instead of "Oh, I gotta be braver for her sake and shit".

I'm sure there's other problems that jaysusmonroe will address, I just prefer to wring out the issues that bug me more on the surface. I don't have a strong enough emotional reaction to Shuichi to write down more about him so this is as much as I can say. Only other thing I'll add is that thank god Maki isn't his mentor ala Kyoko. I don't think I can take any more passive, monotonous chemistry than necessary.

I found him to be really bland, especially in a series where almost every character has drastic traits. However, he didn't have the charm that Makoto and Hajime had, my least favorite protagonist by far

Makoto
charm

Y'know i think this is why i stopped coming to these

By charm I mean the two were relatable, and had thoughts that I could see myself having. With Shuichi it just wasn't there and he didn't feel like much of a protagonist.

I like Shuichi. He's not my favorite DR main character but I like him considerably. To tell the truth, from what I initially heard about Kaede from the fanbase I expected her to be a lot more unique but she was just fine when I got to actually experience the game by myself and while I was bummed out by the switch initially, I learned to appreciate (and it actually increased how much I liked Kaede) and I came to enjoy seeing Shuichi's monologues by the time where it was clear that taking out his hat didn't magically erase his problems.

If he hid the receiver, it could've been disguised.

He is smart and logical. He is a growing role. He is the Best Boy and may my favorite in boys.

Almost reaching the end of the week, and look at that, 277 comments. Granted, the spike in increase slowed down a bit now, but damn that's a lot. Now I really don't want to imagine what Kokichi's would look like.

You're making me seriously reconsider if I should just toss a lit match on that gasoline-filled thread with my theory (That the person you're seeing WASN'T the real Kokichi) and watch the sparks fly.

do it!! i'm sure you telling us your objectively true facts will be an enlightening experience for us morons.

my hand to god, i'd be devastated if you skipped the kokichi thread. i don't agree with your take on the character, and you talk down to others more than necessary, but your kokichi theories are some weird, wild shit and they fascinate me. plus you're pretty much the iconic kokichi poster. it would be like holding the us open and serena williams doesn't show up, like what the fuck are the rest of us doing there at that point?

load more comments (3 replies)

I have very mixed feelings about Shuichi; as a protagonist I don't think he's bad, but I also can't say that I think he's good either. Besides Chapter 1, the first morning of Chapter 2 and the last class trial, I can't really remember anything about him that stuck out to me or had some kind of an impact. His gimmick is being the "weak character" that becomes stronger as the game progresses and that's exactly what happens; He accuses people, second guesses himself, is full of regret, but gets over it or has a crutch to ensure he keeps moving forward. The only character moments that really stand out to me, is his will to face Kaede and accuse her because he knows that's what she wants, when he takes his hat off and starts facing people, and when he'd rather end it all to stop any more killing games from happening(even though those are pretty obvious and were already stated in this post). The majority of the game is just him being carried or going with the flow of his friends, with Shuichi basically doing nothing but being "le Detective" and the only other smart character, next to Kokichi.

The only two characters he consistently hangs around is the boring assassin and the spaceman that ends up being more entertaining than both of them combined(Kaito isn't even one of my favorite characters, but I fully stand by that statement), so the dynamic that Shuichi is given after Chapter 1 is being supported by Kaito instead of Kaede, then betraying him(in a sense, just like Kaede), and dealing with sometimes supportive, sometimes hostile Maki, until we finally reach Chapter 6; It's too simple and expected; Shuichi is barely growing as a character and is still relying on crutches to keep moving forward. Chapter 6 is probably my favorite chapter in the game, but it still leaves me with a very unsatisfying feeling; Shuichi has his expected breakdown at this games "reveal", but then he finally rises up, catches on to how the games keep repeating, and decides for himself that the best option is to end it all; I love how angry he gets at the pointlessness of his friend's deaths, how determined he is to end his own life to stop the killing games, that he was able to get everyone else to go through with the plan(minus obvious mastermind, at first), all this build-up to what was basically a suicide pact for the greater good - ruined by everyone not dying.

Shuichi has only 3 moments that stand out to me, and one of them is ruined because the conviction and willingness to die is discarded, just so this game could have more than 2 or any survivors. Fucking fantastic. He's not the worst protagonist in my eyes, but barely anything was done with him and when something interesting is done with him, it gets thrown away or only happens because of another character's presence.

All these essays but all I can say was I thought he was lame

not as lame as your comment

aw shucks

💖

Deep breath

Shuichi sucks. That's it. End of story. He sucks. I'm not mincing words, I fucking hate him, his role in the story, his arc, and how he just makes everything about V3 worse. Won't be a hard-hitting analysis, he's too shallow to deserve it

Is he the worst character in Danganronpa? No, probably just the 4th or 5th worst

Personality: Blander than a stale piece of toast. I see people constantly tout how relatable he is and it's my least favorite argument about Shuichi by far. I expect a lot of people to compare him to Kaede, and I don't really want that to be the focus of this post (but I'll mention it at the end) but this is one aspect that I'll bring up

Now I'm not gonna say I'm exactly like Kaede or anything, but I thought she was plenty relatable. Passionate, wanted to help others, stood up for herself, had a very take charge personality. I'm not gonna pretend I go around all "let's be friends and have everything be sunshine and roses" to everyone but her general personality works really well and I did find myself like her in a lot of ways

Shuichi? Nope. He's incredibly, incredibly weak-willed. He literally spends time barking like a dog because Miu asks him to. The game makes fun of how submissive he is all the time. Almost all the fanart of him features him in girls' clothes for some reason

Shuichi's personality made V3 infinitely worse because he just doesn't play off the cast in any meaningful way. The protagonist of the game might as well be the dialogue response system ("Yeah, that's right!"/"No, that's wrong!") and it would barely change. I've seen someone praise his FTEs with Korekiyo for how interactive Shuichi is but all he does is ask him questions about his talent. Like who gives a fuck, Korekiyo is the one who made them interesting

Design: Awful. All black, blegh. I hate it. He looks terrible with the hat because it's weirdly shopped on but had it been more a natural part of his design he should've just kept it on the whole game because he looks worse and more generic without it

Potential: Squandered. I remember all the pre-release hype with him. An antagonistic Ultimate Detective? Maybe he'll have more dirty ways of exposing the truth in criminals? Or form some sort of rivalry with the protagonist? Is he corrupt?

No, he's the same boring arc we've seen all over again. I've seen all the arguments from the end of this sub and back on how ‘different' it actually is and all I can say to that is: nah. When you can see the roadmap of his arc from the beginning and it plays out the way you expect I wouldn't call it interesting. Tsumugi even literally says at the end that his arc was to be a weak Detective and grow. The game calls out that his arc is derivative and shitty, and no it doesn't work as an interesting metacommentary about the series either

I don't care if people accuse me of just being some Kaede fan (I do think she's a good character, but not even of DR's best). Anybody who makes this argument against people like me can keep telling that to themselves as justification. I would've hated Shuichi regardless, but Kaede's above-mediocre status in the game just made the nosedive into fucking awful for Shuichi even more noticeable

Talent: He's not a good Detective. I'm not even gonna bother to respond to the, "That's the point, he's a detective-in-training!" argument

Everything after Ch1 is just him consistently missing details like a moron. Ch5 is the absolute worst when he only decides to lie after given like 50 opportunities to realize he should just shut the fuck up and not say anything. By the time he lies, it's not even believable

I like him a little bit in Ch4 where she shuts Kokichi up and gets the trial back on track

I will be honest, you should probably try to change the way you interpret your hate towards the character in a more critique way instead of just using cringe words like "blegh" and all, because it takes all the credibility of the arguments and makes you look like you are just putting anything in the text without effort, expecting people to accept, whenever they like or no. Not to mention, it makes the text look rather childish and immature. If there are already people who said the same thing that you want to say, at least summarize the thoughts but in a way that makes you look you are not doing out of pure hate but also in a more critical way, like a evaluation. Just giving you a advice. You have good arguments, like the ones who posted in past character discussions, but this one doesn't feel like a good constructed one.

i don't think they have any obligation to post like a big ornate eloquent screed on why the character shuichi saihara is not to my liking, part 1/4: parallels with the king james bible. their reaction is 'bleh, i hate this dude'; i don't think they're overly concerned with credibility since it's a totally subjective take. there are plenty of danganronpa characters i wouldn't bother interacting with beyond 'woof, that person is awful.'

Theeeen mayyyybeee don't come to discussion threads?

it's a discussion thread, not a compulsory essay thread. people can say whatever they want homes.

Yeah but if it's not discussion and just subjective rambling i can't take anything from and isn't credible it's not fit for a discussion thread.

Discussion and critique aren't for everyone and they shouldn't. This doesn't need to be an "all-inclusive" type of thread.

lol come on. one of all, all any of this is is subjective rambling, however you want to dress it up. two of all, this thread isn't 'discussion /u/GilArcher
 finds useful (and "credible") about shuichi saihara.' people have all different tastes.

all any of this is is subjective rambling

Not necessarily. Maybe subjective, but not "rambling", if you actually discuss a character, i expect you to at least try to analyze the character for what they are in junction with your personal feelings about them. That way there can be some, y'know, discussion. And useful trade of ideas.

"I don't think he wants to be credible, he just hates the character" undermines discussion. If it's not useful, it shouldn't even be posted.

People have different opinions, but not all opinions are created equal, and maybe with discussion, their opinions can improve, but if they just want to ramble and spew their hate without caring about being credible or contributing...you don't belong here.

that's cool that you expect that. i don't. and we've both got an upvote button and a downvote button so that makes us equals, same as anyone else posting here.

not everyone is capable of 'shuichi saihara: a detective's odyssey: part 1/9.' not everyone thinks that way. not everyone wants to write that way. not everyone wants to READ that. it's not called an 'analysis thread', even, just a discussion thread. i don't mind when someone just fucking loves or fucking hates a character and gushes about them or excoriates them or whatever. that can be some funny shit. and if you hate it that's chill but you can't expect everyone to have the exact conversation you prefer (as much as you're doing the very laudable public service of helping 'improve' people's opinions). and you can't determine who does or doesn't belong here. reddit accounts are free.

anyway i am super ready for the shuichi thread to collapse into a singularity and destroy the universe because like, please, take me, end this miserable sham of my existence, i reject both hope and despair and crave the void.

anyway i am super ready for the shuichi thread to collapse into a singularity and destroy the universe because like, please, take me, end this miserable sham of my existence, i reject both hope and despair and crave the void.

it's not even about shuichi though. it's just unfortunate that there's no other place to discuss off-topic stuff like how the discussion threads are, the state of the sub or whatever. looking from the outside and seeing gasp 200 comments in the shuichi saihara thread makes the constant whiplash of the fated two sides clash even more so. the same way half the maki thread was on its own separate branch. would prefer if there were some automod threads where stuff like this could be discussed but alas. also imo the ouma thread will destroy the universe, saihara is only putting cracks.

continue this thread

I'll admit I kind of rushed this one. You can say it's a testament to Shuichi's character that I didn't want to put effort into this like I have with past discussions

I get your point, and I expected the downvotes (and am expecting more) so it's fine. I could've gone further tbh (like talking about his fanbase) but I decided not to

There's no point in me flowering my wording. I hate him. For me, he ruined V3. Kaede's interactions alone would've added so much flavor to the game. And in a game where so much is already recycled, Shuichi is the biggest criminal because I think at least because adding flavor to a game I already thought was boring is invaluable

Shuichi's special ability is actually making the cast dynamic worse. He doesn't play off of anyone in a unique way and I found his relationship with everyone in the cast (that includes Kaede, Maki, and Kaito) to be forced. There's very little I enjoy about his character and even if there are parts of his arc done well I'm not impressed by it since it's the fourth time it's happened

i want to let you know that the quality of posts made is more important for me than the opinion you have of the character. so to think that only the shuichi fans are downvoting you bc they don't agree is reaching out there since as xxgoldmadnessxx said, your post is very flimsy when you have way better written stuff than this. also good job for keeping your opinions about the fanbase outside of the character discussion (where we discuss about characters btw). you have my respect for that.

i want to let you know that the quality of posts made is more important for me than the opinion you have of the character. so to think that only the shuichi fans are downvoting you bc they don't agree is reaching out there

Considering pretty much every post was originally at -4 despite them being incredibly long posts nobody could have reasonably read less than 10 minutes after this post went up, I don't think it's as much of a stretch. That's just sort of the nature of these. If you're negative, you generally aren't going to get as much support, well thought out or not.

I do agree the wording is a thing here, but it's perfectly reasonable to think people are just unfairly voting what they don't like here.

oh of course, not even gonna deny the petty vote system that gets used here. it also comes with being well known in these discussions as you and your friends sometimes get unnecessary backlash but also gets tons of support and love. a good and bad side to it.

If you're negative, you generally aren't going to get as much support, well thought out or not.

this is dependent on general consensus. a negative post will get support if a character is generally perceived as that, like maki or monokubs who are hated more than they're loved. reverse applies to others. kaede is popular and people generally like her so the most upvoted post will be an early bird who is praising her.

True, it pretty much comes down to timing. The familiarity can only get you so far though. It was an old joke about Hajime week because my post had be at like -6 or something for a while before breaking back into the positive. The big takeway is that it's a joke of a system, but the pettiness is still hilarious every time.

familiarity can be both good and bad but it does seem that those comfortable with each other generally engage in discussions here. on the other side, those out of the loop can feel pretty annoyed so i think i get why people resort to clinging to their downvote button. still petty tho but that's just how this dumb website is.

I don't think I'm getting downvoted by only Shuichi fans, I recognize the wording of the post will be a turn-off. Regardless this is a character discussion thread and those are my honest feelings of him

that's good enough really. it's nice that you don't sugarcoat and understand what i'm trying to say. you do you my dude but since i do like some of your posts, hope to see more interesting stuff from you for the characters you are passionate about.

Fwiw I'm sure if you look far enough back you can find better posts on him by me. This is just something that's been talked about a lot and rather than having to get into the same arguments ("You only hate Shuichi because he's a guy!" or "Kaede is just like Makoto!"), I'd rather take the opportunity this time to be unabashed about it

dw i always look well before speaking so i did see your stuff on him and other v3 impressions post you made.

this isn't something i want to say to you specifically (bc like i said, thanks for keeping the fanbase opinions out) but just that a lot of people over exaggerate arguments from their opposition to make them sound stupid by watering their claims down. addressing counterarguments before they even appear is good for making a point but it sounds so passive aggressive to read that idk how i'm suppose to interpret when people start talking like "dont even come to me with the e x c u s e that kaito is trying to change!!! 😠😡😠"

You're getting downvoted for this, but it's a much more direct version of how I feel. I could maybe overlook it and see it as just typical DR if he had just started off as the protagonist and maybe if we weren't four games in. It felt really annoying having the bait and switch though.

The only thing that's worse is if you get the "you just like Kaede because she's a girl" arguments. I'll wait until her discussion week, but I've got a whole section devoted to that one point alone.

The only thing that's worse is if you get the "you just like Kaede because she's a girl" arguments. I'll wait until her discussion week, but I've got a whole section devoted to that one point alone.

Okay so there's one thing I don't get with this argument:What exactly is wrong with wanting the protagonist to be a girl in a game that plays off mostly on character interactions? I personally DID care that Kaede was a girl, but only because the dynamic between characters would've been undeniably different, not because I wanted to "play as my waifu". We literally have characters like Tenko and Korekiyo that treats girls and boys very differently, so I really don't understand why wanting to see a female protagonist that doesn't talk to the same person for 90% of the game( cough Komaru cough ) makes me a feminist somehow.

What exactly is wrong with wanting the protagonist to be a girl in a game that plays off mostly on character interactions?

Nothing, it's just something that feels very shallow. At least to me, that is. A character's personality and behavior is more important with regards to dynamic than their gender and you can't really deny that there was a big hype behind Kaede just because she was a girl protag and that was before we even knew of her proper personality.

i mean it's kinda better than denying that you have absolutely no gender bias. it's better to cease thinking that we can judge characters completely separate from their design, voice, traits, likes and dislikes. most of these idol game fanbases like characters for their design and voice (seiyu culture in japan is a big deal) so it's ok to acknowledge that you might like kaede for her being a girl but i can agree that i'd need more than that reason to take their opinions seriously.

And there's the simple fact that her gender does affect the game and it affects how writers handle the character. Some people are better at writing women than others, for example. The girls in DR are pretty much always written differently from the guys, so the fact that she's a girl is still relevant.

The girls in DR are pretty much always written differently from the guys, so the fact that she's a girl is still relevant.

pff, you don't remember all those scenes in dr2 when nagito fell into embarrassing poses and flashed his dong?

"Mahiru is about to die in this chapter and we can work in a filler scene before she dies. what should we explore about her character?"

"How about we have her take a shower with what looks like a six-year old girl and show them naked?"

"perfect"

I disagree with that. I don't think there is a fixed way for how the girls and the guys are written in DR. I really don't think gender affects the game as much as you're implying it does, Shuichi is a big example since he was designed first as a character and only later was his gender defined, in fact, literally nothing about Shuichi would change if you made him a girl (except maybe his design).

If you mean the fanservice shots those are mostly relegated to bonus scenes, I wouldn't count them as of a notable importance.

This series has included (but is not limited to):

showing more than half the women of each game showering and/or naked

regularly showing panty shots of women in the games

A rape scene one of the girls played for fanservice/humor

An execution in which the girl is stripped down to her bra and panties before her death

An execution in which it's implied the girl in it had an orgasm before being killed

Panty shots galore (it happens so often I list it twice)

Moooore swimsuit scenes giving big closeups of the girls breasts and even took the time to make an asset of Swimsuit Chiaki despite it only being used for a few seconds in-game

Entire characters devoted to sexualization and fanservice in nearly every single entry.

I can name maybe four instances across DR media in which guys are sexualized, so Makoto's ass shot in the DR 1 anime, Nagito's in DR 3, and if you want, Ishimaru and Nekomaru showing off their muscular bodies.

If you're a girl in DR, your main role is to be mostly sexualized in some way and you're much more likely to act as a springboard for a dude's angst. Sayaka, Peko, and Kaede certainly agree, and not to say it doesn't happen with guys, but it's a trope primarily rests on using women as springboards.

There's also just the general reception of how the fanbase will hate girls for having some of the exact traits or behaviors as some of the guys that get praised for doing the same things.

Gender absolutely affects the writing when it comes to this kind of thing, and it's not specific to Danganronpa.

I could also just point out more blatant examples in that there are characters who explicitly interact differently with men and women like Tenko or Korekiyo, but I'm mostly focused on the more generale examples in how women get portrayed in media. There are hardly any women in the series that don't have to show off their breasts or something at some point in the game they're in.

There's also just the general reception of how the fanbase will hate girls for having some of the exact traits or behaviors as some of the guys that get praised for doing the same things.

That's kind of generalised. Care to be more specific? Reading this the first case of gendered double standards I could think of was Teruteru and Miu's lewdness, except the fan base's reception is typically the other way around.

showing more than half the women of each game showering and/or naked

And in the animes you get the fanservice of both Naegi and Nagito's butts as well as tons of interactions for the fujo part of the fanbase (which is mostly women). To claim you don't get fanservice for women in DR is quite simply false.

regularly showing panty shots of women in the games

Wasn't that only Mikan at first? And that was also a statement for her character rather than pure fanservice. I mean I distinctily remember how DR1 avoided showing the panties of characters like Kyoko and Mukuro when hey were in positions where you technically should be able to see them. It became a huge thing with AE and Komaru specifically.

more complaints about fanservice

Look, I won't deny that DR has fanservice for guys and has instances where girls are being lewd and whatever but the opposite also true. DR has plenty of fanservice for girls, as I stated above. And you're frankly exaggerating about pantyshots, I feel, since they were only a thing in AE with Komaru and it's perfectly fine to dislike that aspect of the game since the other games of thes series don't have that level of fanservice.

If you're a girl in DR, your main role is to be mostly sexualized in some way

Completely disagree with that and that makes me wonder if you played only AE. Not every female character is Mikan or Komaru and even Mikan had her reasons. That's a horrible generalization, it's like saying, every male character in DR is written in a way to make fujos swoon over them and ship them with each other.

but it's a trope primarily rests on using women as springboards.

I'll be honest to you and say that I hate this notion. It reduces those female characters and their agency just to complain about the way they died.

Kaede didn't die to motivate Shuichi, she died as a result of her own actions in story and the meta reason is because Kodaka wanted a twist where the protag dies. Shuichi being male was literally an afterthought of his character so, if he was a girl, would you still use the same argument? And did Kaito died for Maki's sake in chapter 5 too? What about Makoto being sacrificed for Kyoko's sake in 1-5 (but living because of LUCC/protag plot armor)? Sayaka and Peko literally died because of their own actions and choice too.

There's also just the general reception of how the fanbase will hate girls for having some of the exact traits or behaviors as some of the guys that get praised for doing the same things.

The opposite is also true. Outside of DR, you have Persona 5 where as a male teenager you can romance a older teacher, this teacher became a fan favorite, what do you think would be the fan opinion if this teacher was a male and the MC was a girl? Wouldn't several of these same fans find it creepy? And even in DR, how about the double standarts for Teruteru and Miu's lewdness?

Regardless that is irrelevant to what we are discussing, while the way the fanbase sees a character IS affected by the gender most of the time, I don't think that affects Kodaka and the development team as much as you implied it did.

Gender absolutely affects the writing when it comes to this kind of thing, and it's not specific to Danganronpa.

Not saying it doesn't. I just said that I don't think it affects as much as you're saying it does, as in of course they put in fanservice for both male and females, but I don't think the game's plot is directly affected.

I could also just point out more blatant examples in that there are characters who explicitly interact differently with men and women like Tenko or Korekiyo

Yeah but that's up with the writing of each character and not exactly the way the game's plot and development progressed.

There are hardly any women in the series that don't have to show off their breasts or something at some point in the game they're in.

I think you're being a little to paranoid here. Female fanservice exists too you know? And DR is a series that is full of them. I've seen several girls call DR a fujo series for a reason and also nearly half of the JP DR fanbase is made of women.

1) i think the amount and prominence of fanservice has greatly increased since the first game. iirc, in dr1, it's limited to that one shot of asahina in a camisole (very racy stuff) and the bath scene. other than that, the game as a whole treats its female cast very tastefully imo, and they get a lot of complexity and agency in the narrative and so on. starting with dr2, it's degenerated steadily, with the obvious nadir being the tickle machine in dr:ae which i'm pretty sure got my computer flagged by the fbi.

2) if we're talking about how games about girls are written differently: consider the fact that the spin-off helmed by two girls (and a bunch of children!) has by far by far by far the most amount of (often very creepy) fanservice, and consider why that might be.

3) i don't think the amount of very minute 'male fanservice' is even comparable to waves upon waves of it that infect the female characters. there's like a designated spot in each cast for the submissive girl who wants to be publicly sexually humiliated by this point. it's uh kinda weird, that that's a thing.

4) when it comes to mikan's fanservice being justified by her character, i've always thought it was a 'having your cake and eating it too' situation from the writing perspective. like that fanservice is played AT LEAST 50% straight (i think it's actually a lot more) because, again, i have reams of other danganronpa fanservice to compare and contrast, and it all looks preeeetty identical.

5) you know damn well he hasn't just played dr:ae unless he magicked up all those microscopic analyses of every single character out of thin air. come on.

continue this thread

i agree with everything you said but the "DR isn't sexist because its fanbase is mostly female", most female characters' hatedom are formed by women, most of the people who say "V3 boys are better that V3 girls" are girls , and there is nothing wrong with that, it's normal for girls be more interested on boys, even if they are fictional

Females can be sexist, and i'm not talking about internalized misogyny, fujos, or something like that, like in real life people, both male and female, have high expections for women's demeanor, a woman doing something wrong will be more "problematic" because women aren't allowed to do the wrong thing, a (bit dated) example: a long time ago, in my country, only women used to be punished if they commited adultery, and most women had no issues with it

fan base aren't differents, sometime i ask myself "would X be more popular in japan if she was a boy?", "would X and Y be less popular if they were girls?"

continue this thread

There's also just the general reception of how the fanbase will hate girls for having some of the exact traits or behaviors as some of the guys that get praised for doing the same things.

Just chiming in to say that double standards cut both ways.

For instance, I'll bet that Tenko would be a much more hated character if she was a male.

Also, actions like Kaede attempting to lift up Tsumugi's skirt wouldn't be as overlooked as they seem to be if she weren't a female.

Lastly, your point would come across a lot better with some actual examples, rather than expecting everyone to take what you say at face value.

Yeah, I definitely agree that it's better off to admit that you have a bias rather than denying it constantly and acting it as if it doesn't affects you.

I'll be honest with you that and say that while I like Shuichi as he is, this opinion wouldn't change if he was a girl. I guess things like that are what tells you if you genuinely like a character or not.

I'm def a feminist myself, and after Kaede's discussion week I'm definitely going to get that role in full motion. A lot of this is me trying to wait until Kaede's discussion to bring it up in her week, because I think the fact that Kaede is a girl is incredibly important even if I'd like her as much if she was a guy.

The thing I find more annoying is that Kaede can't simply be a character I prefer more than Shuichi, and I make the distinction because I'd still dislike Shuichi even if Kaede never existed. It just has to be that she's not a guy, obviously. It's also annoying the very different ways the guys are portrayed versus the girls in the series and even how they're received by the fanbase.

The thing I find more annoying is that Kaede can't simply be a character I prefer more than Shuichi, and I make the distinction because I'd still dislike Shuichi even if Kaede never existed.

One self-reflection I can do towards myself here at least is that I tend to use Kaede to point out flaws of Shuichi because it is very easy to compare their qualities(like FTEs) since they are both protagonists in the same game but that's it. I can also compare Shuichi to Hajime or even Phoenix or something for that matter and it wouldn't be any less brutal for his character. It's not a matter of "Kaede's good because..." it's a matter of "Shuichi's bad because..." and I kinda don't get what's so hard to understand about it.

It's mostly just there to belittle other opinions since it's a contentious topic. I'm pretty confident a lot of the arguments against Kaede exist solely in opposition to things said about Shuichi.

People say that Shuichi is bland and that Kaede was better, so people would then point out that Kaede is bland in response.

There's also just the simple fact that women get the short end of the stick in this genre of media especially, so that doesn't help. It's like how nearly any woman can be a written off as a Mary Sue for having characteristics most guy characters would get praised for.

I'm pretty confident a lot of the arguments against Kaede exist solely in opposition to things said about Shuichi.

People say that Shuichi is bland and that Kaede was better, so people would then point out that Kaede is bland in response.

This goes both ways, both in terms of positives and negatives. People find Shuichi relatable? People find Kaede relatable. People liked how proactive Kaede was in chapter 1? People liked how proactive Shuichi was in chapter 1. People don't like how Kaede's plan was flawed? People didn't like how Shuichi's plan was flawed.

They were almost inseparable for the brief time that they were both alive and the writers viewed both of them as equal main characters. So, a lot of the good or bad that can be said about one will be compared/contrasted with the other depending on your agenda.

There's also just the simple fact that women get the short end of the stick in this genre of media especially, so that doesn't help. It's like how nearly any woman can be a written off as a Mary Sue for having characteristics most guy characters would get praised for.

Holy shit, you just made me realize how much this bothers me. Many male characters in different media that are more or less perfect gets a pass because they are "cool" but females are treated as "waifubait" or "jerkoff material". Even in Danganronpa Kyoko and Chiaki gets massive amount of hate for being "Mary Sue"s when their faults, especially Kyoko's, are clearly visible yet Shuichi; who was IMO very much designed to be as likeable or,to put it more bluntly, as husbando as possible is cherished. And as we can clearly see even in this thread nearly not having a single fan that doesn't find him "relatable" or "cute"(and his massive popularity in Japan) I think Team Danganronpa was very successful at their objective.

Kaede was also designed to be likable as in, Kodaka straight up says he really tried to make her someone the player would be endeared towards just in the same way Shuichi was.

Almost no character is designed to be hated, at all.

People say that Shuichi is bland and that Kaede was better, so people would then point out that Kaede is bland in response.

Or I just find Kaede a bit on the bland side since she only had so much to work with in just one chapter, which did stifle her ability to form relationships throughout the course of the entire game. This doesn't mean that Kaede is bad, I'll throw in my thoughts and say that I still enjoyed her, but the thought of finding her a bit bland just being discarded as a direct opposition to criticism against Shuichi is extremely close-minded, and just comes off the wrong way. Kaede has her strengths and weaknesses just like pretty much every character, and finding her to be lacking some depth shouldn't be tossed aside "just as a defense to people calling Shuichi bland", doing that will only ignore some actual opinions on her.

I can also compare Shuichi to Phoenix or something for that matter

Whoa dude, you're just gonna turn Shuichi into an actual piece of toast if you do that.

I know I'm not saying anything meaningful here, just thought this giant comment stack needs something a bit lighthearted or something.

I see people constantly tout how relatable he is and it's my least favorite argument about Shuichi by far. I expect a lot of people to compare him to Kaede.

So basicly you are annoyed that people have perspective with his self confidence issues? Atleast, that's what i gather from this point.

No I just don't think relatability is a good metric for a character because

For many people he isn't, which shouldn't make the character bad
By that logic if Kaede is more relatable to me, she's better. Which is dumb

Relatability is a good metric if you drop the pretenses of trying to analyze a character objectively. It's perfectly fine to like one character more than the other and base that around relating to them more.

load more comments (11 replies)

Hes a good character and has pretty good development as a character but given his shared talent with Kirigiri, I can't help but feel disappointed by comparison when hes such a mediocre detective by comparison. I know hes an "amateur" but if that is the case, then maybe he shouldn't be an "ultimate" to begin with. If i'm supposed to credit him for the logical and good things he does in the trial, then I'm going to discredit him as well when he feels so bland and mediocre compared to Kirigiri.

Well. Here's my view od him. I believe he's about as intelligent. Maybe a bit less. But not much. However he's much more emotionally unstable then Kyoko. He also has a ton of doubt issues and the inability to ever assume he actually did something right. Constant self doubt can lead to less quality in your work.

I'd say if he was more cold like Kyoko was he could be a great detective.

load more comments (1 reply)

How is character's quality determined by how intelligent and how good said character is at x thing lol

I said he was a good character though. Hes a bad detective though, at least compared to Kirigiri anyways but if I'm supposed to believe hes the "ultimate detective" then I'm going to hold him to the same standards that I did for Kirigiri.

If shuichi wasnt such a crybaby I'd think i would like him more.

He would make a great devilman.

thanks for this post now im crying too

​ Welp, guess I should've posted this sooner since I repeat a lot of things but at least I can be done with this shit forever. Oh wait, at least one essay before it's over can help I guess.

(Sorry if I misspell a certain name here, but it's my post and I'm letting it all out, just this time)

For people who know what I post or complain about mostly here, the side of the Scrum Debate I'll take here (along with some cool folks I presume and the rest will be a lot of dead people with portraits IMO) will be quite obvious.

A matter I'll address in the very beginning is that I don't hold the "switch" against either of the characters involved (as in, I don't dislike one character because of switch ONLY) since I feel just holding that against either of them is kinda dumb (I prefer to hold the game on that) rather than see what good and bad things these two characters propose. Also consider this essay as "double" because of how Shithara (sorry) and Akamatsu are kinda tied together (especially Akamatsu, very unfortunately), so good thing that this is next week.

Having said that, again, I'm absolutely blown away by how much of a shit I do not give about the guy. I still decided to give him a chance after chapter 1 cuz I don't like that the fact that I preferred Akamatsu would detain on my judgment. Despite all I went from neutral to despise which is quite a feat for someone who just happened to be one of my pre-release faves, mind you. I can admit a few good things that his Chp1 design is cool before it becomes disgusting without the hat, Hayashibara as a seiyuu does her best (considering it's the first male character she voices, at least it gets the job done). Also, yes, I admit he can develop and he does certainly, that's a good thing. There are some ideas thrown that are clever in Chapter 6... But that's all, really, the rest was just a pain to deal with and not only for the character but the entire game which makes the whole thing very "sour". Going on Truth Bullets for now :

"But he's such an unique protagonist different from the ones before"
Let's just put aside the whole switch thing which is actually nothing more than a farce, something to shock, just change your perspective and it's just DR1-1 all over again. So I'll just put what u/OneWizardMan
 summerized better than I ever will :

Now stop me if you've heard this: A nervous protagonist who lacks self confidence and enters a journey to find said confidence, all the while interacting with every character they come across by reacting to their quirks passively. If your answer is every highschool underdog ever, then no fucking shit.

For the fourth time in a row, and yes before someone throws me the obligatory "but Naegi didn't develop" which I cannot approve more of, he still just didn't react that much and let himself being mostly insulted or just being passive around things (even if you can have protagonists like Hinata who despite having like everyone the common goal of surviving, also has this "subquest" to find out his talent, which made him have a (more interesting) goal. (I'd also argue that Hinata, in opposite to popular belief, developped more than just the last hours of the game but that's another talk). Even if Komaru only had the goal to escape, there was also Fukawa who is also a deuteragonist who had her own preoccupations. I'm trying to only keep it on his character, but aside from just having this thing with the door in Chapter 1, what does Sighara do outside of being useful on trials (and that's exaggerating for me)? He's not even proactive and don't dare tell me that no one can be proactive as a protagonist in DR (will get to that this monday). Maybe he gets more focus than other protagonists for his arc? I can say he does, but it's nothing that Komaru didn't do already (she developed from chapter 2 to the end), and it's just near the last chapters that we really see maybe some beliefs change in Suckhara's character (sorry again), and even then it's not that much of a drastic change in him. It's not Kuzuryuu's levels of change, for example. And for all that matters, I'd say considering the end of the game that this so called development is invalidated in the ending (getting to it later).

As far as personality goes he starts from that meek shy moe dude and still stays this way until the end and they acknowledge it (except that he possibly calls more shots and decisions near the end for the group so there is that at least... Oh wait he has FRIENDS now !!). Also throwing away any compelling lines he might have, aside from "I'm the SHSL Detective so I think that" or reacting by so ~kyute moe~ noises. And for the "moral" changes? For the what is good between truth and lies? Those concepts in the end just come as hollow if you're just using those like concept without anything really concrete? "But his backstory relates to that theme for the game!" Who cares, it's just used to parallel the first case at the very least. "And there is how it #FeelsBad to just reveal the truth about X culprit because oh no they're gonna die now" No shit, it's almost every DR case ever, and in the end it doesn't amount to anything since the priority is still to be get most people alive anyway. What a Dilemma, fellas.

Hey, 0_6498, just a quick heads-up:
prefered is actually spelled preferred. You can remember it by two rs.
Have a nice day!

The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.

corrected, thanks sir bot

"His arc isn't about being confident, it's about finding the truth, so it IS different !"
Please. When you have many parts of the game when it involve characters suddenly caring all of a sudden about the fact that Dickichi (very very sorry, I'm REALLY trying to control myself) can just BELIEVE in himself (and I think they are way more than just those two scenes and it's not coming only from Kamina- wait I mean Momota). In DR1 & V3 you have this female character dying for the main character's manpain in the beginning and that makes them strive to "Do It" and take some more active part in the story. Not to mention how here there is a guy just boosting your ego over and over for no reason than the plot demands it in the name of Kaito "BELIEVE IN THE ME WHO BELIEVES IN YOU" Kamin- eh, Momota.

Since I keep mentioning it, the difference between TTGL and V3 is that the show is aware that Kamina is actually more of a coward but has a more legit reason to be involved in Simon's growth, as he puts him into situations that makes Simon faces what he's afraid of. Unlike Momota who feels weirdly like the way he shows that toxic masculinity is a good thing for how he interacts with it in the cast (compared to how DR1 treated it with Oowada for example), they show more how Kamina is more of a coward and they have him sacrifice himself for the others and being selfless (which wasn't the case before), as Simon grows more confident and charismatic. It also helps that Simon isn't like a Chosen One and there are in plot reasons for why Kamina and later other characters become interested in him and following him. This is where I'd consider Sighara at his lowest due to how he's annoyingly treated as the most important character ever who existed in this game. Giving your protagonist special privileges like this I feel is an easy yet terrible mistake to fall into. Now, I get he's "useful" for the trials and I don't mind a "hey thanks for helping us not die this trial" but the overpraise is just clumsy and reeks of self-fullfilment. The whole game I was cringing for how many times the whole cast (sans Iruma and at some times the literal villain of the game) could just never shut up at how Urkhara was OMG SO AWESOME and that just added to how very "self-inserty" it felt from the writer when it was his time to shine.

A few examples :

chp 1 is mostly full of Akamatsu boosting this emo's confidence in lots of different scenes and that was literally the whole basis of their relationship. Normally you would expect it to go both ways so that both characters learn but they just pass it for love and without the thing of "characters knew each other before but forgot" in the last games then this becomes the very definition of forced, having Duckhara just being a leech to Akamatsu and they work together because... They woke up in the same room ? How about having Akamatsu have a more legit reason to worry about this dude than most of the cast? They barely knew each other to begin with. He needs the coddling ? So does most of the cast. And now yes there is the thing about the library that the two of them only know about, but that doesn't mean they have to spend every waking time together. The only reason this relationship exists aside from dumb ROMANCE baiting is because plot : he has to stay with her so that he gets to be known by the player when he takes over as the protagonist.

Chp 2 has most people reacting to him taking off his hat (and with that his design just regresses a lot) when it's just a guy taking off his hat and with it most people say "ok it's cuz kayaday died orz" like he has propriety grief or something when, of course, they knew each other for only one day. Rest of the chapter is Momota doing what Akamatsu did and what she did, he will do for the rest of the game until his Big Moment. Not to mention Hoshi who at some point was jealous for... what exactly ? What does this guy has more to you, seriously, he has even longer ways to go. Not going into everyone buying into his pointless lie in the trial, that was already brought up.

Chp 3 is at least a bit better with this since this time our dear MC isn't that much of a focus save for probably that part when [he compares Yumeno's pain to his own when he lost Akamatsu] which is just patronizing at its finest when one duo of characters spent much more time with each other than the other.

Chp 4 is the absolute worst at this. Not only being a drag at mostly everything, everyone just could not shut up about how F---hara was SO awesome everytime it feels like the game spouts at me "DONT YOU LIKE HIM YET ISNT HE GREAT LOOK HOW MUCH HE'S GREAT EVERYONE LOVES HIM YOU SHOULD TOO" that again, it's just forced down our throats (proof why it doesn't take boobs or something like it to make a character likeable). Intro of the chapter ? Wow, Yumeno is shown to grow, now let's not pay any of that attention at all and just praise that one dude cuz he's the MC !. OH WAIT ! BETTER IDEA ! Do it for the ENTIRE INVESTIGATION of course ! And even IN THE TRIAL, why not. At least Momota feels jealous for a bi-

Hey but for Chapter 5 has Momota and his sidekick being in disagreement so CONFLICT which is good !!!.......... not since it just comes off in as Momota saying explicitly that he was jealous for how his sidekick gets his d--k sucked and how much in the WRONG he was and praises him.Again. Oh, OF COURSE two times isn't ENOUGH.

"And even so you cannot have any other way to make a character grow anyway so this is the only and better way it works"
I wish I could be more polite and less direct here but I have only one thing to say to anyone who dares say that : get an imagination. Of course it's all anime, so when you have this kind of media it's difficult to imagine after it's thrown in your face for so long any other value that isn't FRIENDSHIP POWER BELIEF LOVE and all those clichés can make for growth in characters in this kind of media. And yet some of them do exist, like some I recommend here. Remember that this is still a non-exaustive list. Regardless, it's fiction. It's not a set in stone thing. You can change things to fit your narrative, like I'm not even a writer but there is never only ONE way to write a story, no matter what.

Also a point about how I see often that Dumbhara is a "complex and well-written case of representing mental illness and depression". I don't see it. He's almost Mitarai's level of wimp about crying and feeling bad about himself (until he needs to get an ego-boost from any character possible), and for some who says his depression is well-written and the only way to properly write it............. Sorry to break it to y'all but there are more appropriate and more original ways to write that, here it's the most standard and boring thing I saw, Shinji Ikari's level of originality. Feeling bad about yourself, angst and whiny for most of the time until it changes a bit near the end ? Hell, even in the same game, better characters had a more proper way to show depression or suicidal tendencies (like Hoshi, or in another case Yumeno).

​

"And even then, he's the only one fitting for this game, how would anyone else NOT a *DETECTIVE** relate to the TRUTH VS LIES theme !"*
And just saying that because of the theme alone it justifies the writing makes it only worse if you aren't going to put any backbone into it. Why would you even just ONLY need a detective by necessity ? I'd make a list of everyone (sans Shirogane or Ki-Bo) being qualified for the Truth VS Lies (or REALITY vs FIKUSHION) because of their backstories, their dynamic and much more. It's (ironically) fiction, it doesn't need to be restricted.

And this was already treated for a bit, and I might touch a sensitive part here, but his talent is shit. It doesn't take to be called a detective to be actually clever, even if people are relying on you for that title and you drive discussion in the trial, if all the cast is relying on an idiot to do the job then the whole cast is a bunch of idiots.

Here are a few examples :

In Chp 1 he just assumes that the mastermind is gonna be captured by the cameras and fall in their trap while they could've easily be informed of all of it. Also let's call Akamatsu's plan being dumb while trusting that oh so clever and trusted SHSL Tantei with the explanation while during it he just ignores the fact that the bloodstain on the books doesn't even fit the way the ball apparently smashed his head.
Chp 2 has him ignoring the curtain and shrugs it off like there is nothing suspicious about it at all when if it was investigated sooner it would've not made Yumeno not seem like an idiot to hide the truth like that if someone "apparently" more competent didn't even bother to figure it out.
Chp 3... Ok in that case I'd hand it to everyone being dumb when no one notices the sound of a dude walking in the seance (even with the song it should've been obvious that there was someone walking in the dark especially while singing), and many other instances (though this case sucked this was the only time when it wasn't really that much of a focus and it was funny how Harukawa was more of a detective than him LMAO)
Chp 4 I don't give any credit since it is just a very paper-thin mystery and a huge drag that a five-year-old would've solved in 5mn but repeating many times already so that it just has a 5 hour trial.
Chp 5 I already touched on here quickly but having him carry the trial doesn't do me any favors when he just doesn't realize that a voice changer was a thing until one hour after the trial starts when anyone could've guessed that if suddenly Momota speaks through the Exisal then Ouma does. Not even going that when it became obvious that the plan was to stop the killing game the best option would've been to shut the hell up.
Chp 6 is barely a mystery to begin with aside from the exposition at the end like always, and the biggest clue is just given by Motherkuma at some point. And yes, I don't except that he is THAT smart for a detective and unlike Kirigiri he hates it and takes no pride in his work, but in DR1 even when Kirgir was step ahead of everyone, that didn't stop anyone from trying to investigate, as shown in the last case. In V3-6's last case we may have people helping along and Yumeno showing the secret passage, but for most of the game, people just stand here to watch S- urk, ok I don't even bother anymore -, I mean, watching this guy do this job and don't even bother just because.
"The very choice he does at the end basically makes him completely unique and different from any other protagonist !"
I would say so (even if not really different from AE or 2 - oh, speaking of which... but that's another debate that no one will possibly agree on because of their biases), but the epilogue just comes in after an already sorrow argument. Now, him "rejecting that hope" starts from a good thing ! It's after Ki-Bo and Harukawa decide to sacrifice themselves that this idea comes, and that's clever... even if you don't need to just repeat the same thing to prove that you're going with this, c'mon. Accepting death to stop every killing game that happens after, and proving how much they are IN PAIN (exagerrating here, even though it's how it was said as such xD), that's.. very noble and actually cool to end the thing with.

Of course they don't have the balls to go through their plot, so no one has to die despite how the ending built up to it, and YES, the fandom wouldn't like it at all and they aren't ready yet to have zero survivors but when you get an idea just commit to it for god's sake. You can't get to assume that the audience just "saved" you when they have no way for that audience to connect with their surrogate at all. Why would they make this in the first place, because a guy just shout at their face the same things he spout for half an hour ? (and of course since it's V3 we lose the thing that made the series kinda cool in the beginning is not taking your audience like they're two by being most of the time brief). And if it was Ki-Bo (who was erased completely at the time) who decided to save them all, when and how was he even able to make this decision in the first place ? There are many factors to take into account, and it's already a stretch that the audience buys it completely AND have their change of heart, they aren't entitled to these kids in the first place.

Result ? The survivors all seem like hypocrites for doing the exact opposite that they swore to do to 'end it properly'. Also let's not forget that we just can take everything as a lie just because and stay correct at all times. "oh no how could we POSSIBLY have volunteered to play this game at all" makes for a shitty conclusion and goes to what I'm talking about how the development feels "cancelled" if Cuckhara (LAST ONE !!! sorry again) doesn't even bother to think that he might not have been a so precious cinnamon roll (especially when you come back from DR3 - shrugging all consequences). If it's a lie, then it feels like you wasted your time, and if it's the truth, some parts of it are gonna rub people the wrong way anyway. Again, that's why you have to be particuliary careful while using meta, which in my opinion, this game did not do well. Especially with how it doesn't make any sense in the end for him to be the protagonist. If you're claiming that he's the MC for a purpose that he's not supposed to be derivative from the past ones, then it doesn't make any sense as he copypastes a lot from the previous MCs, and if you try to claim that he's supposed to be, then it doesn't make sense as Ki-Bo is the actual protagonist in-universe.

Combine all of this with a yawny design, and that gives where I stand about our dear protagonist.. It's no exaggeration that he's the one who emphazises the most of V3's issues and why it's lackluster for me : not trying to take any risks, staying back into the comfort zone, not even bothering and just using meta things in a lazy way to justify their plot... list can go on. I can prolly get why some like him a bit (at least he's voiced by Hayashibara so at least ONE good thing despite how suffering it was for her I guess), and while I'm at it, it's fine to say "he's relatable so he's fine" but the fact that it's only supposed to be him AND that only "relatable" characters or neutral in some ways must take the spot not only irks me, but also feels quite insulting to me that we are required to be like HIM to enjoy the game or this series in general.

PhewatleastonetopicI'mdoneandoverwith.Forever.

It seems that your comment contains 1 or more links that are hard to tap for mobile users. I will extend those so they're easier for our sausage fingers to click!

Here is link number 1 - Previous text "..."

Please PM /u/eganwall
 with issues or feedback! | Delete

Welp, I just noticed this now. RIP me.

I don't want this to become a big discussion so I'll just talk about one particular thing here.

I would say so (even if not really different from AE or 2 - oh, speaking of which... but that's another debate that no one will possibly agree on because of their biases), but the epilogue just comes in after an already sorrow argument...

...Result ? The survivors all seem like hypocrites for doing the exact opposite that they swore to do to 'end it properly

I don't think the epilogue is hipocrisy. The choice of "hope" was bad because they were within the game, hope was form of continuing that game. They refused, somehow survived and now, out of the game, they are free to hope for their life again, none of them were suicidal after all.

load more comments (3 replies)
load more comments (2 replies)
Character Discussion #74 - Kaede Akamatsu (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

CLICK TO SEE SPOILER
SPOILERtop 200 commentsshow all 309navigate by subscribe
sorted by: best

formatting helpcontent policy
save

[+13]I'm not an essayist, but I'll throw my hat in the ring. I like Kaede because her character was handled really well. She was kind, optimistic, and attractive. However, she felt like a slightly exaggerated Makoto to me after a while. By making her the killer of chapter one, and then later making her innocent, the writers kept her from becoming a Mary Sue while simultaneously keeping her clean. There were a ton of way to mess it up, but they pulled it off well.

Kaede walked a fine line of being good or bad that if she lived any longer then she could have easily been ruined. I'm glad they did what they did with her.

ComputerControlled GG

load more comments (1 reply)

Part 1 of 3

Kaede is my favorite girl from V3 and arguably from the series because of how much effort the writers put into handling her character and implementing her into the role as the protagonist. And this was shocking since I was mostly indifferent to her going into the game. I guess I just didn't pay much attention to her personality since it was meant to be more grounded compared to the colorful personalities of the rest of the cast. That being said, when playing the game I quickly grew attached to Kaede's character because of how endearing her traits were and how different they felt compared to past protagonists. The reason why Chapter 1 is my favorite chapter in the game was mainly because of Kaede's role over the group and her dynamic with the rest of the students.

I loved Kaede's take charge attitude and how she quickly establishes herself as the leader of the group. I love how Kaede is not afraid to speak her mind about whatever she is thinking. I love how determined Kaede can be and how she hates to give up. I love how Kaede's FTEs with the rest of the students feel like actual conversations where Kaede is sharing her thoughts and feelings. Needless to say, I love Chapter 1 because I had a really enjoyable time playing as Kaede.

I also really liked her interactions with Shuichi, albeit in a platonic sense, because of how well they illustrate one of her biggest strengths for me: her wanting to help improve others. I mentioned it with Kaito and Tenko, but one of the most attractive qualities for a character to me is being really supportive and Kaede falls into that same category of being generally optimistic and caring to the other characters. Kaede constantly cheering up Shuichi and praising his detective work are moments I found to be endearing to me. Of course Shuichi isn't even the only character that Kaede tries to help as she offers her own advice and encouragement to other characters in their FTEs.

In Kirumi's, Kaede warns her that the amount of service she provides will only spoil the other students.

In Himiko's, Kaede tries to come up with a list of activities that she and Himiko can experience to help her become less lazy.

In Ryoma's, Kaede tells him the importance of not worrying about the past and asking him not to put so much weight on himself.

In Gonta's, Kaede gives him tips on how to act gentlemanly.

In Miu's, Kaede practiced making conversations with her so that Miu can learn to make friends.

Kaede is a naturally born friend I guess you can say. She may be too upfront with her thoughts, but she is a friendly and chatty person. She is willing to help others and I find that to be a really valuable trait to me.

What makes all of my previous reasons for liking Kaede stand out far more is that this kind of dynamic and personality has never been done before with past protagonists. As I mentioned in my Shuichi post, I find Kaede to be a huge breath of fresh air to the series and I loved how the writers had to get out of their comfort zone in order to write her character. Kaede is a leader while past protagonists were followers. Kaede speaks her mind while past protagonists normally kept to themselves. Kaede actually makes an effort to combat the killing game while past protagonists did their own thing. These aspects of Kaede is what made Chapter 1 so exciting and memorable to me. This sense of innovation and originality within the series was much needed and I feel that Kaede did a perfect job at answering to that complaint.

Part 2 of 3

I will now address issues I have seen people criticize Kaede for. The most common complaints I see for her character are that she is too similar to Makoto, she is a Mary Sue, and that she couldn't have her own arc given her personality.

She is too similar to Makoto

I have seen this critique from time to time and while the two characters share a couple of traits, their general personalities are far different from each other. The one main attribute that they both share would be their optimism. However, I feel that the writers handled this similarity in two different directions and explored these perspectives. With Makoto, he is a generally kind person with the rest of the students. However, his kindness is not all that prominent and is tucked away when interacting with others. Not to say that he is trying to hide it, but his optimism is pretty underutilized outside of specific story moments. This is a general problem I see regarding Makoto's character as many accuse him of being a pretty bland character because his base personality is not all that noteworthy and memorable in the game. Kaede, on the other hand, is far more upfront with her positivity. When playing her FTE's with the cast, she is extremely chatty and social with others. Kaede tends to be brash with her words, but you can tell that she is trying to reach out and befriend her fellow students. This is where the core similar trait branches off into two paths. Makoto's positivity is hardly prominent while Kaede's positivity is far more focused. I am actually going to show a free time event with Makoto and one with Kaede and you will be able to tell just how much their personalities contrast each other.

Here's an event between Makoto and Mondo:

Mondo: Ahh, damnit! Bastard! Damnit bastard son of a bitch!

Makoto: What's wrong? Why are you so mad?

Mondo: Why am I mad? Why am I mad!? Can't you see why I'm mad!? I need to get outta here! I need to get outta here and run wild! I'm so pissed off right now! Shit!

Makoto: I know how you fell, but...just don't do anything crazy, okay?

Mondo: Hey, how about we have a one-on-one?

Makoto: One-on-one?!

Mondo: Relax. It's just a bare knuckle brawl. No weapons. Whaddya say!?

Makoto: A hand-to-hand fight....?

Mondo: Hell yeah! Hand to hand! Knuckle to knuckle!

Makoto: Hold on! Friends can't fight each other!

Mondo: But that's the only way I can burn off all this energy!

Makoto: But I mean...I've never even been in a fight before... Oh, I know! Why don't you go ask Sakura!?

Mondo: What...?

Makoto: I mean, you can spar with her, right? You don't have to actually fight, but just...train.

Mondo: Don't be a fuckin' idiot! I can't hit a girl...! And she's a girl, right?! I'd ruin my honor... My mom would kill me!

Makoto: ....

And here's an event between Kaede and Ryoma:

Kaede: Argggh, I'd feel less tired if there was at least one animal around here.

Ryoma: Well there are several bears.

Kaede: They don't count.

Ryoma: Hmph, well they certainly aren't the kind of animal that's make you feel at ease.

Kaede: Right? Geez, I just want a soft fluffy animal. I wonder if there are any around here...

Ryoma: Hmph... I get that. Once you start petting one, you forget about all your worries...

Kaede: So you like animals too, Ryoma?

Ryoma: Well, I don't dislike them...

Kaede: You sure about that? You looked a lot more relaxed when I mentioned animals.

Ryoma: Wha-?!

Kaede: Oh? Did I get it right?

Ryoma: Tch, you tricked me... Well played.

Kaede: I only said what's true. Your soft spot for animals is written all over your face. So what kind of animals do you like, Ryoma?

Ryoma: Cats are the best... I used to have one.

Kaede: Really!? You have a cat?

Ryoma: Used to... When I went to prison, I had someone take care of it. I used to pet him after tennis practice. He was calm and smart. He'd know when I was tired and come over to let me pet him. He had a nice, fluffy coat... Watching him go wild over catnip calmed me down.

Kaede: Just thinking about you playing with a cat... is pretty much the cutest thing ever.

Ryoma: Geez... don't go judging people by their appearance.

Kaede's interactions felt far more engaged and compelling because Kaede inputted far more than Makoto did to the other character. And because Kaede inputted her thoughts more, it makes her personality and traits stand out far more while Makoto was mainly acting as the straight man in this situation. I feel that these two events demonstrate the clear differences in how Makoto's and Kaede's optimism is presented.

Kaede is a Mary Sue

This complaint is I also see from time to time and I find it a bit annoying, mostly because the term "Mary Sue" feels like such a loose term nowadays and is thrown around and mentioned so many times. Anyways, Kaede does have flaws as a person. As I have mentioned in my previous post, Kaede doesn't know when to call it quits and can be pretty bossy to the rest of the group. This shows itself during the death road where Kaede's optimism and hope pushes everyone to their breaking point and most of the characters begin to become annoyed by Kaede's advice afterwards. Another flaw of hers is her inability to keep things to herself, which rubs some of the characters off the wrong way. The biggest example of this is in Shinguji's FTEs where Kaede just goes ahead and asks Shinguji if he is into incest after hearing him talking about his sister in an overbearing manner, which deeply offends him. Yet another flaw to Kaede was that her optimistic philosophy and role as the leader pushed her to the point of trying to get her hands dirty and kill someone, something this is completely unjustifiable. Finally, Kaede's biggest flaw is her not being able to put trust in others which ends up killing her in the end when she chooses to not tell Shuichi, someone who put his trust in her, about her plan to kill the mastermind. All these flaws made Kaede an interesting character to dig into so it's a bit obnoxious whenever I see someone disregard Kaede as Mary Sue material, which not true at all because she is definitely not perfect.

There was no way for Kaede to grow and have an arc

I stand by my opinion that Kaede would have made a far better protagonist that Shuichi would. Kaede had all the elements and potential to create a new and interesting experience while Shuichi is just by the numbers in terms of writing protagonists. However, one of the most defenses I have seen for this debate on Shuichi's side is that Kaede had no room to grow. In other words, Kaede's character was complete; the end goal to what Shuichi's development would be. I strongly disagree with this argument and find it to be a bit insular. Kaede's arc does not have to be reduced to growing confidence like other protagonists because, as I said, there are multiple different directions you could take with this character.

One of these potential arcs could be if Kaede follows the Break the Cutie trope and have her slowly break down over the course of the game due to the despair of watching her friends die. The idea of Kaede, someone so optimistic and cheerful, going through psychological torture through the game and reducing her into a depressed and scarred state is a really interesting idea because of how much it deconstructs from your usual character arc. It's negative character development, like with Ryoma. The protagonist doesn't grow, instead the protagonist plummets.

Another interesting arc they could take with Kaede would be if they turn her into a fallen hero. For example, if Shuichi was actually the culprit and the others realize that Kaede's lie could have killed them in the end, they begin to lose all their trust in Kaede. Or what about her trying to kill someone(I know it's the mastermind, but still) and people begin to question her morals as does Kaede. The rest of the cast will grow wary of Kaede. Regardless, Kaede's arc will be her trying to regain the trust of her fellow students. But how will this arc fit into the truth vs lies theme? I speculated about how, because Kaede is shown to get her hands dirty, she can be willing to do some lowly things like lie to try and get the trust of their other characters or try and solve class trials. I think this scenario would be great at exploring not only Kaede's arc, but also her morality.

There was a lot of room that the writers could explore with Kaede's role as a protagonist and I wish that they stuck with her instead of Shuichi.

Part 3 of 3

I am now going to talk about my problems with Kaede's character which, funnily enough, all relate to her relationship with Shuichi.

First off, I hate how Kaede was handled post game with her free time events and found them to be really disappointing.. They felt so.... dehumanizing. Of the five events, only two of them explore Kaede's background and talent. The other three, however, were completely wasted on Saimatsu fluff. As I have mentioned before, I like her dynamic with Shuichi. Their friendship in Chapter 1 was touching and their personalities work well with each other. That being said, I don't want to have their ship be shoved down my throat. People can ship whatever they want, but that doesn't mean that the writers should force you to like something. It's just really unprofessional. And that's my main problem with Kaede's free time events. They focus less on making you like and learn about Kaede's character, but instead focus on making you ship her with Shuichi. This is especially annoying considering that Kaede is a flawed person and those flaws could be interesting to dig into. Wouldn't it be interesting to understand her trust issues? Or what about her qualities as a leader? Nope, instead here's three events that consist of nothing, but Kaede teaching Shuichi to play the piano and trying to ask him on a date.

Another problem I have with the writers shoving their ship down my throat is that there is little payoff to it. What I mean by that is that there is no revelation to Kaede forming a crush on Shuichi, it just is. Compare this to Kaito's free time events where his last two events focus exclusively on Shuichi's friendship with him. Even though it falls into the same problem as Kaede where the game tries to make you like their relationship, one aspect I like is that you learn that Kaito strongly values teamwork and communication. Kaito forming a friendship with Shuichi reinforces his stance on why cooperation is key to success as his talent as an astronaut requires you to work with other people. His stance on teamwork relates back to his belief ideology where he places his complete trust into the other students no matter the circumstances. Kaito's free time events ultimately had an end reward and you were able to gain something from completing them.

I will also talk about Mahiru's free time events because I feel that her events did a great job at giving her depth and development while still pushing for the romantic angle as with Kaede's events. In Mahiru's free time events, she is surprised by Hajime's genuine compliment about her photos which makes her feel really happy considering that she always looks down on her work in comparison to her mother's war photos. This feeling of happiness causes to Mahiru to re-evaluate her opinion of Hajime and warm up to him. She begins to open up to Hajime about her family issues and even starts to act more playful and comfortable around him. By around the fourth event, Mahiru starts to develop feelings for Hajime which reveals itself in her last event when she asks him to take a photo of her. She wanted a photo of what she looked like when she was with Hajime. When Mahiru looks at the photo, she says that it's as good as the photos her mom took. Her giving this simple photo such praise was because it helped her discover a feeling that she lost, the feeling of cherishing someone(something that is stated in her Island mode ending). I found Mahiru's free time events to be far better because the writers actually did something with the romance angle to it. Mahiru learns to open up and trust Hajime over the course of the events and the end of it she falls in love with him. The fact that she grew to love Hajime is important to her character because she is really independent and aggressive towards the boys. That's what makes Mahiru's FTE's so much better. Because there is actually payoff. With Kaede, she never really grows feelings for Shuichi over the course of the events and is just naturally into him. This causes her events to lose satisfaction and impact to her character. This all relates back to my main problem with her events, that they focus less on her character and more on her ship with Shuichi.

My problems with how much romance is put into Kaede's FTE's traces back to larger problem I have with the series in how they try to put in more emphasis on the romantic side of the relationship with the main waifus(Kyoko, Chiaki, and Kaede) from installment to installment. Back in DR1, I felt that Kyoko's relationship with Makoto was well handled because the writers focused on their building trust and friendship with each other. Things start to become more sketchy in DR2 with Chiaki Nanami. Between the increased amount of romance put into her FTEs to how close she was to Hajime so that her death would be set up as a tragedy for him, I feel that the writers weren't being exactly subtle. Romance is even more amplified in DR3 where Makoto's and Hajime's actions and arcs revolve entirely around their love interests. Finally in V3, Kaede not only has most of her free time events focused on her ship with Shuichi, but her role in the story was to die to springboard Shuichi's development. I don't like the direction the series is taking with how they portray the love interests of the protagonists because their character, motivations, and development are beginning to revolve solely around the protagonist.

While I found her free time events to be insulting and her role as the protagonist to be wasted, I still adore Kaede's character. Best girl! Even better than Tenko!

Best girl! Even better than Tenko!

Them's fighting words my friend.

I was set on Tenko being my favorite V3 girl, but replaying chapter 1 made me remember why I loved Kaede so much.

I was set on Tenko being my favorite V3 girl, but replaying chapter 1 made me remember why I loved Kaede so much.

I'm going to allow this.

Damn, still stuck between the best girls of DRV3.

Aaargh, why are all the characters in V3 so lovable

I 110% disagree with Kaede being a better protag than Shuichi. Shuichi appears to be a by the number, stereotypical beta protag but his development is far more integral to his character plus his conflict fits the theme of the game more than Kaede's would.

Kaede's conflict was trusting people while Shuichi's conflict lied with finding the truth and whether it was worth it. Shuichi is much better in terms of dealing with the whole truth vs. lies theme and to a further extent the fiction and reality theme. Kaede's conflict would've been as cliche as it gets in the killing game. It's almost a given at this point that people distrust other people. That shouldn't be the central conflict if we want originality.

I always found it interesting that, at several points throughout the game, had Shuichi not sought out the truth with such motivation things arguably could've turned out better. That's a deep as fuck conflcit. It moved past the "the killer only wants to escape" theme that was prevalent for DR1 and the first half of DR2.

Shuichi is only "by the numbers" n terms of personality, initially. But as he develops as a character (and he genuinely has one of the best developments in the series) he gets more confident and, in turn, more cynical. he's the best parts of both Makoto and Hajime.

Couldn't imagine a meaningful, new, unique, or engaging game with a character like Kaede as the protagonist.

I 110% disagree with Kaede being a better protag than Shuichi. Shuichi appears to be a by the number, stereotypical beta protag but his development is far more integral to his character plus his conflict fits the theme of the game more than Kaede's would.

Kaede's conflict was trusting people while Shuichi's conflict lied with finding the truth and whether it was worth it. Shuichi is much better in terms of dealing with the whole truth vs. lies theme and to a further extent the fiction and reality theme.

i don't think the truth vs. lies theme is all that worth preserving, at least not as the game presented it. as someone who preferred kaede as the protagonist and thought v3 kinda missed the ball on its theme work, i'd happily trade both shuichi and the truth vs. lies theme for kaede's run as protag and whatever theme emerged from that organically.

I think the theme is most definitely worth preserving. Kokichi is the best written character in the series and the fact that his lies are so inetgral to the overall theme work wonders. I believe the theme is executed perfectly because it works on a micro and a macro scale.

micro is what we see, truth versus lies. We seek the truth no atter how much it hurts, even if everything would be better with a lie. And on a broader scale, about how lies can change truth, fiction and reality.

Kaede wouldn't work as a protagonist IMO because she already hits all the beats of a typical protagonist, of not a little more enthusiastically. You're asking for a complete overhaul of the game to accommodate one pretty lackluster character. We can rewrite the story all day to try and give Kaede a cool, unorthodox arc but the only arc I could see her having is that of falling into despair. A meaningful theme would be difficult from that. She could work as a side character. but definitely not a protagonist.

sure, fair enough. sadly, i think we have opposite ideas of what works really well in this game. i think kokichi is one of v3's great liabilities and easily one of the series's most wishy-washy villains from a writing perspective, though there'll be plenty of time to go into that next week, i'm sure. i find the implementation of the truth/lies theme really confused; i think it tries to do too much at once and don't find it hits its mark on any level (as i've mentioned in past threads-of-the-week and elsewhere so i won't rehash it again). and i take a more pro-kaede perspective for reasons i mention downthread.

however, comma, all that said, if your point is that i'm making a tall request by basically demanding the whole game be rewritten, then... yeah, you're probably right. if we're discussing keeping kaede as the protag, then obviously things would need to change about the larger narrative, but 'just change the whole thing' is probably not a productive way to approach that discussion lol.

Couldn't imagine a meaningful, new, unique, or engaging game with a character like Kaede as the protagonist.

You lack imagination. Picture this- if Shuichi actually does take the fall for Kaede's actions in Chapter 1 (an entirely possible outcome, given the situation with Team DR), the entire Truth vs. Lie theme takes on a whole new meaning- Kaede would have to deal with the fact that her own survival is built on a lie, as is the trust the others have placed in her. I'd Trade My Life For Yours has a really interesting take on this concept- check it out if you're curious.

The problem with that lies in the rules. One, that wouldn't be allowed to happen. She'd have no real reason to conceal it. It would severely hurt Monokuma's role and to an extent render the trials pointless. I feel like that could've been achieved better if Kiyo was not the blackened in trial 3, despite killing Tenko.

The problem with that lies in the rules.

Since when has Monokuma cared about rules? Tsumugi already broke her own rule by executing Kaede, and besides that, her priority wasn't operating a fair game; it was putting on a good show- the game ending with the first trial does not make for a good show.

She'd have no real reason to conceal it.

She'd have plenty of reasons. Again, look at the first two chapters of this- it offers a good idea of how this situation might play out.

load more comments (5 replies)
load more comments (17 replies)

I stand by my opinion that Kaede would have made a far better protagonist that Shuichi would. Kaede had all the elements and potential to create a new and interesting experience while Shuichi is just by the numbers in terms of writing protagonists.

the thing is that your passage is pretty relevant overall but i also think that the problems people say saihara has are exactly the same stuff kaede would start showing. someone else said it in the saihara thread but danganronpa requires killings to happen and someone like kaede wouldn't have worked if she remained assertive and would have to be neutralized as a passive reactionary force just like saihara was from his chapter 1 self to the rest.

plot convenience requires kaede to lose this part of her and when she does, i'm sure people would again talk about how she's a boring protagonist overall since she doesn't do much (this is flipping saihara and kaede's roles) i just think that the part of her people love (her being proactive) would die out if she lived long enough but ofc there are more creative ways her writing could go in.

It's not a problem with Kaede, but a problem with the DR writers not being able to tell basic stories. One of the rules of writing 101 is that your main character needs agency and shouldn't passively react to the events around him. Obviously there are no "rules to writing" but a big reason I love characters like Jimmy McNulty and Tony Soprano is because the plot moves because they do

And sure people can counter with a few examples of great passive protagonists like uh....Forrest Gump? But the idea that Kaede would have to lose all her agency because the DR writers can't write an active protagonist is so stupid because it's also frighteningly believable :/

yeah, i think part of kaede's mystique is that if you're largely unhappy with how v3 played out narratively, kaede offers a tantalizing hypothetical alternate universe. a backdoor route, if you will.

Well, Kaede only had as much agency as she had in ch1 because Shuichi was there to support her. If she lived AND caused two innocent people to die, one of them being the one person who gave her everything she needed to act, I think it's quite understandable that she'd be more subdued.

If she lived AND caused two innocent people to die

I see you bring points up like this a lot and I don't really get it. Like if Kaede lived Chapter 1 obviously would be rewritten (I even brought up Rantaro living in my post). Most rewrite scenarios come with rewrites of other parts of the game

If Shuichi was the protag Chapter 1 and he died one could easily make the argument that he'd be a shit protag because Kaede was the only one always pushing him forward. But lo and behold, Kaito came into the picture

Rantaro was marked for death due to the whole manipulation with the survivor perk thing. I guess you could change that if you got rid of that plot point.

Also, I never said Kaede was a shitty protagonist in chapter 1, her relationship with Shuichi worked out for both of them initially since Kaede gave him recognition and support while Shuichi offered the means for Kaede to actually be able to do something. They were both proactive in chapter 1 but that only happened because they were together in a symbiotic relationship.

I didn't say you said that, just showing that the plot and characters go beyond Ch1. Shuichi being Kaede's agency is a very mitigable issue in a rewrite (ignoring the fact that I don't even think he was her agency anyway)

Shuichi was the only person in the cast Kaede could have had a symbiotic relationship with unless you rewrite the personalities of characters.

ignoring the fact that I don't even think he was her agency anyway

She straight up said she wouldn't be able to confront the mastermind without him and that he gave her the strenght to do so.

That's why I mentioned that one of the ways the writers could handle Kaede's character was to make her more of an anti hero where she manipulates her fellow students into trusting her again. She is still proactive, but she develops through all of this and has her own arc.

I don't think the protagonists should consist of characters that only react and act passive to the events of the game. I know that the writers are capable of trying new things to breathe life into the series. If they could do it with Chapter 1, they could do it with the next 5 chapters.

There is also the point that she was only as proactive as she was in chapter 1 because Shuichi provided her with everything she needed to act. If he had died in her place, I doubt Kaede would continue to have as much agency as she did in ch1.

I feel that these two events demonstrate the clear differences in how Makoto's and Kaede's optimism is presented.

Kind of sketchy to make this comparision with these two examples, Ryoma is a much more open character on a surface level than constantly angry biker Mondo is.

I don't know. While you're right about Ryoma being more easy to talk to, I feel that you are cherry picking this part. Mondo's explosive personality would just be just as easy for Makoto's optimistic attitude to bounce off of. And Mondo can be a pretty chill guy if he doesn't get riled up.

Mondo's explosive personality would just be just as easy for Makoto's optimistic attitude to bounce off of

That'd depend on his mood and in the convo you posted he was pretty aggressive.

And Mondo can be a pretty chill guy if he doesn't get riled up.

The convo you posted had him riled up though.

Oh boy, just 14 hours in and it already looks like it belongs in /r/Debate_Scrum_Simulator

She protecc, she attacc, but most importanly, she THICC

I love her, shame she was gone so soon but I'll never forget my first time playing chapter 1. I don't usually get to emotional while playing games but I was losing my shit (not in a bad way) when the trial was over. Good on you SC and Kodaka.

My Trial 1 experience:
"Wait.. Shuichi's the only one who could've done it, right? It's either Kaede or Shuichi. The culprit used the vent, but Kaede was with Shuichi the whole time in the classroom. Shuichi is looking really distraught, but not in a guilty way... Is there really no other possibility than Kaede?"

It was a big reveal to say that the protagonist is the culprit and setup a huge part of Shuichi's character arc, so I have to hand it to them for that.

load more comments (1 reply)

I'll be frank. I don't like Kaede. Don't get me wrong, she's a great character. Just one that happens to push a lot of my personal buttons.

For one, she apparently has no sense of personal space. Her idea of getting Tsumugi's attention was to poke her face and threaten to lift her skirt. There's also her FTE with Keebo where she basically sneaks up behind him and presses his button, which strikes me as incredibly rude, to say the least. She should count her lucky stars that wasn't the self-destruct button. Yeah, I get that we're not supposed to take that seriously, but I just can't be objective. Stuff like this makes me very uncomfortable. At least with characters like Hifumi, Teruteru, Angie, or Miu, their shenanigans never went physical or were limited to FTEs. In addition, their backstories (except for Teruteru's) give some kind of reasoning (not to be mistaken for justification) into why they would act that way.

Also, she was a reckless idiot. Did she never consider the possibility that someone else may have discovered the hidden door on their own? I can usually overlook recklessness, but when said recklessness could cost someone innocent their life, then I'm not inclined to be lenient. I'm aware that it was essentially a kill-or-be-killed situation, but she looks pretty bad (to me) in comparison to the others, who had plans that don't involve murder.

Lastly, there's her FTEs. They're essentially a dating sim. The only thing I can remember learning from them that can't be inferred from the story was that she plays the piano to make people happy. In my case, it falls flat because I've already learnt that from her FTEs with Himiko, so I might as well have gotten nothing. This is pretty bad for a character that only lasts one chapter. At least the other characters with lackluster FTEs lasted longer.

Still, there's plenty I like about her. For instance, I like how she admitted she messed up and didn't try justifying herself like some other culprits would. And also, though I may have called her a reckless idiot, I do admire how she was willing to forgo the First Blood perk (essentially sealing her fate) in an effort to ensure Rantaro's death wasn't meaningless, to prevent morale from tanking, and to save everyone. It's very brave of her and she ultimately went out with a bang. That's not to mention her attempting to lead everyone, despite the fact that she's probably as scared as the rest of them.

Her FTEs with the other characters were pretty good. Shame there's only two of them. My favourite would probably be Miu's, though I quite like Rantaro's and Tenko's too. Seeing someone able to take it and dish it with Miu is a guilty pleasure.

EDIT: Forgot to mention. That twist where she turns out to be innocent left a bitter taste in my mouth. I'm not really sure how to put it, but it felt like they took away her agency. The game basically glossed over the fact that though she may not have actually killed anyone, she still attempted murder. In doing so, they've pretty much made her death meaningless. Just a stepping stone to corner the mastermind.

Kaede is one of the few characters I knew anything about going into V3. And even then, all I knew was that she would be the Ultimate Pianist, and would be the player character.

I was as pleasantly surprised as most were when right from the off, this DR experience felt so much different than any I'd had before and that was largely due to who we were experiencing this story through.

Kaede feels refreshing, actively assuming a leadership like role from the start as opposed to growing into that role via the trials like those before her. She shares the sense of optimism and faith that the other protags had, but there's little to no hesitation from her.

And yet the game knows when to reign it in as well. Kaede's outlook makes it easy for her to inspire others, but struggles to maintain those other's resolve. V3 was actively trying to move away from the Hope V Despair theme of the past and this was a great way to kick that off, have hope prove to be ineffective almost straight away.

Have to say though, maybe I just got really unlucky with my choices, but I do not see what the big deal is with her FTE's. I've heard a lot of people say they were great because the conversation isn't one sided, Kaede plays off of whoever she's talking with and makes it sound like a real conversation as opposed to just exposition. I'd argue it went in the complete other direction; it's still one-sided, except now it's about the player character, not the person I'm choosing to talk to. I barely for to learn anything about Kaito, Korekiyo or Tsumugi through Kaede's FTE's because they were mostly about Kaede's interpretation of their interests. It's great that she has her own autonomy, but I want to learn about other people too.

Her role in chapter 1 was original and caught me off guard and I liked it. It's something we've always talked about in DR but I never actually thought they were going to pull the trigger on it. And I think it played out well.

I don't truly understand this growing opinion that Kaede "did nothing wrong" which is used more as a criticism of her than anything else. A lot of people feel that learning that Kaede didn't actually murder Rantaro turns her into this lily white, virtuous character that did no wrong and can't be criticised. I don't really get how because attempted murder is still a crime in a lot of places. She intended to kill, she isn't virtuous on account of her plan failing. You're still fully entitled to disapprove of this action.

The only thing I actively disliked about her was the portrayal of the Ultimate Pianist. DR protags follow this trend of being fairly down-to-earth people so that there's no major personality clash between the player and the protagonist. The first two didn't really have discernible talents or interests for the majority of their games. Komaru was also intentionally designed to be relatively indistinct, her normality is a large part of her character and the arc she goes through.

I was curious to know how they were going to do this with a pianist since most people aren't even musicians, maybe even don't particularly like music. As it turns out, their answer was to convey the most shallow depiction of a pianist they could get away with. I feel like the plan behind this depiction went as followed,

"Hey, how do we convey to the player that she's a pianist?"

"Eh, just have her name drop a song once in a while. That'll do."

"That'll do." Those words perfectly some up how I feel they integrated Kaede's talent into her character. She has a couple of cute, yet superficial music motifs in her clothes, she wants to play a song that encapsulates the mood, she wants to play piano...because it makes people smile. Gag me if that isn't the most insipid depiction of why a DR character ended up accumulating their talent; "it makes people happy and I enjoy seeing people smile." All this research put into depicting cosplayers accurately for Tsumugi, all the hours spent designing Kokichi's character with the theme of V3 in mind, yet they put the bare minimum effort required into designing the Ultimate Pianist.

And to compare with another musician to illustrate my point, Ibuki was upbeat, bouncy, dynamic, vibrant, quirky easily the type of character I could imagine rocking out on a guitar and even her unusual taste in music genre works with that quirky nature. Kaede was designed to be relatable at the cost of not making her feel like the Ultimate Pianist in any way. Even the comparison between her ability to inspire and piano music's ability to move people doesn't feel like a fair comparison, because piano music has a certain timeless quality to it. The hope Kaede inspired was fleeting at best.

Kaede's a really likeable character. Just, not a good Ultimate.

And yet the game knows when to reign it in as well. Kaede's outlook makes it easy for her to inspire others, but struggles to maintain those other's resolve. V3 was actively trying to move away from the Hope V Despair theme of the past and this was a great way to kick that off, have hope prove to be ineffective almost straight away.

this. interpretation may vary but the game detracts from going into hope v despair by proving the beacon of hope and positivity as ineffective in a rigged killing game.

Have to say though, maybe I just got really unlucky with my choices, but I do not see what the big deal is with her FTE's. I've heard a lot of people say they were great because the conversation isn't one sided, Kaede plays off of whoever she's talking with and makes it sound like a real conversation as opposed to just exposition. I'd argue it went in the complete other direction; it's still one-sided, except now it's about the player character, not the person I'm choosing to talk to. I barely for to learn anything about Kaito, Korekiyo or Tsumugi through Kaede's FTE's because they were mostly about Kaede's interpretation of their interests. It's great that she has her own autonomy, but I want to learn about other people too.

thank you for this. kaede's ftes wouldn't be written this way if she was going to stay bc they focus more on her than they focus on the character she's interacting with. saihara's criticized passivism is how the game allows the other characters to showcase themselves in front of your bc it's their ftes not saihara's. this is what i'd call a writing problem in general bc there are ways to write ftes without making them an exposition from one character while the protag hums along but dr writes them in a same way and kaede staying would have the same effect on her ftes with others.

Being something of an amateur pianist myself, I agree with this so much. It was honestly off-putting going back to the prologue and seeing that Kaede is basically a likable girl who's also a pianist instead of the other way around, and this in part also contributes to why she's pretty low on my character rankings overall- It's pretty funny to me how a lot of people will talk about Chiaki being waifu bait when Kaede by virtue of having a lot of likable traits despite having some seriously fatal flaws and being 'proactive' in a way that's fresh is to me not just waifu bait but also wish fulfillment...as evidenced by how so far people talk about how likable and awesome she is but no one's yet addressed that her background hardly lends itself to who she is and what she did compared to the likes of Sayaka for example, whose writing gives me a solid idea of why she goes the lengths she did but as implied by Kyoko regrets going for that, and whose talent lent so well to her actions.

As people would know I'm hardly a fan of Shuichi either, but the lack of background, neat tie-in to her talent and how she feels designed to be well-liked pretty much shows Kodaka wasn't joking about Kaede being made to be likable (And for the record, much of what I dislike about Kaede's writing applies equally to Maki) and it ends up coming off the opposite way to me because it feels to me like she doesn't have the grounds to be pushy and full of herself based on said background (Unlike say, Byakuya where he has the backing to do so like or hate him) and people praise that just because it's different, and easily my favorite FTE starring her has to be the one where Kokichi pretty much tells her he's done with her 'common sense' because she's basically just shoving her opinions and beliefs on people without having the credibility to do so. Again, this is not to say that I'm a fan of Shuichi's FTEs with others but what you said here feels on point:

I'd argue it went in the complete other direction; it's still one-sided, except now it's about the player character, not the person I'm choosing to talk to. I barely for to learn anything about Kaito, Korekiyo or Tsumugi through Kaede's FTE's because they were mostly about Kaede's interpretation of their interests. It's great that she has her own autonomy, but I want to learn about other people too.

In the end Kaede is still a pretty normal protagonist so my interest in her only extends so far and of course this is subjective since some prefer a more assertive protagonist, but as my opinion is that both Shuichi's and Kaede's PoVs had their issues it wouldn't be fair of me to dislike one without mentioning my issue with the other.

she doesn't have the grounds to be pushy and full of herself

I mean, does she have to have a reason? Some people are just bossy by nature.

It does when she's talking down to people pretty damned significantly for being a sweet pianist. As I mentioned elsewhere just the slightest bit of background could have helped with this.

That doesn't explain why she's a bad ultimate. It's seems like you push your expectations/stereotypes her and that's why she seems bad. E.g I think of inventors as introverted people, doesn't mean I'll call Miu a bad ultimate because she's foul mouthed. Same with Kaito. Not my image of an Astronaut but it still works.

That's not what is meant by that passage. Her being an Ultimate doesn't seem too ingrained into her character the way it is for Sayaka or Ibuki, for example. Sayaka's depiction of her talent wasn't outlandish, but it showed her need to stay prevalent in an industry which is ever-changing and is packed to the brim with newer faces who can replace you. Ibuki is a depiction of an eccentric artist, using variety of creative inspirations to facilitate her music and consequentially, having her share of disagreements because of such a personality.

Kaede has a simplistic view of her talent. She plays piano because she wishes to see people smile and her dedication to her talent sounds sort of superficial when she says she plays it forgetting to even eat or sleep in the process. Anyone can get better at anything if they keep on doing it endlessly by skipping meals but that's realistically not how people excel in their fields. Dedication is honed through consistent effort and it shapes who you are, such as Gundham: his connect with animals was shaped by his inability to connect with people. His talent is a part of who he is and it shaped his awkward personality around other humans, who he feels have the power to betray him, but animals don't. Him maintaining a website about breeding was a nice touch to show him channeling his interests in different media as well. Remove the 'pianist' from Kaede Akamatsu and it barely has any relevance to her personality and character, aside from her design, execution and few snippets of dialogue.

Another similar example to Kaede I'd bring up is Chiaki, who is a gamer, but doesn't mention anything extra about gaming than what an average gamer already knows. All she does is play games of all kinds regardless of genre or their time period, but that's quite shallow. Gaming has intricacies and people become accomplished in this field through several ways such as esports, let's play communities, guides, speedrunning etc. We see no mentions of those aspects from her and it's simply that she 'likes playing games' and forgets to sleep because she's too into them. Credit where it is due, she exhibits intelligence one can hone from puzzles in gaming but that's pretty much it.

Fair enough. We all have different way of rating the cast as Ultimate's. For me, I care about if they leave me intrigued about what they do and if it feels contextualised into their character (i.e: so deeply woven into their character that it can't be changed without completely re-writing their personality.)

For instance, I have no desire to be an astronaut myself, but I could tell how passionate Kaito was about it and that passion was infectious. Within a few FTE's, I wanted to know more about what's required to be an astronaut. Korekiyo managed to make anthropology, a subject I knew almost nothing about prior, sound really interesting and left me wanting more and he did was able to present it that way because he thinks humanity is beautiful. Even Maki's "do you want to die?" joke, whilst cringy makes me curious; what actually happened in her upbringing to shape her to who she is today, to the point where that qualified as a joke?

Kaede doesn't really make me interested in pianists or piano music at all. Because it feels so tacked on and mundane. It's not really contextualised into her character. If you were to change her talent, you'd have to remodel her lab, lose the motifs on her outfit and can the song name drops but other than that, nothing else has to be re-written, her personality really wasn't shaped by her talent.

In terms of character dynamics and personality, Kaede is the best character in V3 to me, bar none. She easily got the most disgusting, manipulative treatment of nearly any character in the series though, but I found her to be the most engaging character in the series (Ryoma takes a close second) despite that.

Going on my same line of traits, dynamics, and arcs, I feel Kaede has the most varied and interesting character dynamics with pretty much the entire cast. It can be easy to miss because her FTEs aren't conveniently accessible and you'd most likely just play Shuichi's since his are easier and most won't go back through Ch. 1 just for the Kaede events, but I found these much more interesting and the way Kaede interacts with everyone really felt like they tried to really make each one as unique as possible.

I know that her events exist to preserve the illusion of her being the protagonist and they intentionally leave out details because they want them saved for the "main" FTEs, but they're still Kaede's and they still explore the characters. They're not as accessible as Shuichi's, so it's easy to overlook them since some can feel repetitive, but I can't overstate how much I appreciate the variance in all of them.

It can be easy to fall into a pattern of "So you're the ultimate X huh? What's that like?" followed by the character dumping out their backstory over five events. The game saving details for later actually works to Kaede's advantage because it forces them to get creative. It feels more believable that Kaede simply doesn't care about every single talent everyone is focused in. She never hates anyone for it, like in the case of Tsumugi and Gonta, so they play off their personalities or other things about the character which works nicely. I honestly found the dynamics in these much more interesting despite being shorter.

We still get a sweet moment with her and Gonta, a fun freakout when She and Tsumugi realize they need other hobbies, a very human moment for Keebo when he gets back at Kaede for playing a joke on her, a heartwarming Ryoma interaction where both Kaede and Ryoma are trying to put on brave faces for each other (Ryoma distancing himself and hiding his love of animals) and Kaede trying not to seem tired) and both calling each other's bluffs since they can both read each other's expressions without the other actually saying anything, and so on.

Some do rely on integrating both characters talents like the case of Kaito and Kiyo asking Kaede about music and working in their own talents. Kiyo's in particular acts as terrifying but pretty funny foreshadowing when he asks Kaede to meet his sister. The narrative actually justifies reasons why Kaede would bother interacting with some of the bigger assholes like Miu (something that felt really unnatural when interacting with characters like Genocider, Byakuya, Hiyoko, etc) and their conversations feel much more genuine, especially because Kaede doesn't just passively take in what the other character is saying.

In short, Kaede really feels like she's bringing her own to the conversations, and even if they ultimately feel repetitive (because most players will maybe go back after beating the game or look them up on YouTube after being exposed to the "main" FTEs) I really appreciate Kaede's character dynamics with pretty much every character you throw her way. She can be pushy and nosy since she gives several cast members unsolicited advice, both in their FTEs and in the main story. Sometimes this works well, sometimes she doesn't see eye to eye with the others. It's not as if she's unaware of it like in Maki's when she catches herself over inviting herself to Maki's orphanage.

Even in just one chapter, Kaede managed to thoroughly impress me in how well her personality plays off of the many characters in the cast, and that's a fantastic quality to have in a protagonist in a cast this large because it helps them stand out and each feel unique.

I've seen some people say she's just Makoto at the end of DR 1, but I don't really feel I agree. I'd actually liken Kaede more to Ishimaru or the Ultimate Impostor, both of whom also establish themselves as leaders of the groups early in the games as well. It's also hard to overlook the parallels to Sayaka in that both she and Kaede both attempt the first murder of the games, both are bait/switch charismatic musician girls, and both end up causing our meek main character to be suspected of the first murder as a result.

However, I think Kaede's characteristics are pretty engaging and I found her to be a blast to play as in chapter 1. She even has enough similarities to previous DR protags--particularly declaring herself a pretty normal girl who is also a piano freak—where I feel it was never really a problem for her. She's certainly not a flawless character, and it confuses me when people act like she's perfect. She can be pushy, she can give unsolicited advice, she has her heart in the right place, but even some of her moves as the leader can be fairly questionable, and of course she's not above attempting murder. On the upside, she's proactive in her attempts to resist the threat of the mastermind, she's supportive and understanding toward Shuichi, she has aspects of her character apart from her ultimate talent, she expresses her fear and uncertainty to Shuichi to help show that she's confident but not to an infallible degree, and so on.

I don't expect everyone to like Kaede just because I do, and that's fine. Having said that, I think it's a complete lack of imagination and beyond ridiculous to insist that Kaede "can't" grow had she survived and been the protag the majority of the game. She could perhaps reevaluate her sense of trust and who she decides to reach out to, which in turn shakes up the group dynamic and makes people more leery of her. For example, she does outright say that she doesn't have any problem trusting Ryoma, who we've established is a murderer in the middle of a killing game. Of course, Ryoma is one of the most selfless and kind members in the whole cast, but it's not like you'd know that after having just met him. It wouldn't be unreasonable to at least be more cautious, and even Ryoma himself points this out to Kaede and that she shouldn't make huge judgements like that with one or two conversations with people.

Saying Kaede is some perfect force or was just a beacon of inspiration or is a blander version of Makoto I think cheapens the value of her character, and to insist that there's nowhere you could go beyond the first chapter is a huge lack of imagination. Just because Kaede isn't meek and doesn't find herself valuing the truth/gaining confidence by the end doesn't mean she's not able to go anywhere. We've also done largely that same base character in Makoto, Hajime, Komaru, and Shuichi, and obviously they do have variation in how that's portrayed. Those four characters aren't just copy-pastes of each other, and plenty of stories have had more confident protagonists undergo some kind of interesting dilemma or growth. Kaede differed enough for me that I found it more engaging and exciting than just having someone passively reacting to everything again.

I've also seen a lot of people write off Kaede fans that get upset over the talking point of her being a girl. Kaede has damn great character dynamics with everyone, and I'd still be here saying she's the best V3 character if she happened to be a guy. However, Kaede being a girl is critically important to part of why I feel a lot of people were so upset about Kaede's sendoff.

I can't speak for everyone, but when I say I'm upset about losing our girl protagonist, I mean I'm upset that the narrative loses respect for her and uses her as a manipulative tool because she's a girl and cruelly kicks her to the side.

What's the first thing everyone tells you when you're upset that they offed the first girl protagonist of the main games?

"You could play as Komaru in UDG." -

This is true. But UDG and DR3 also constantly felt the need to give us excessive panty shots of Komaru, strip her nearly naked during what is supposed to be a serious moment during the game, and at one point put her in the center of a rape mini-game, one that focused on playing Komaru being raped off as fun and pleasurable for the player. In fact, nearly every single girl in this entire series, Kaede included, is sexualized at least some point in this series, some more excessively than others. I was pretty let down when the game felt the need to have us show off Kaede in her underwear during the first investigation. Before that scene, Kaede is handled with quite a bit of tact—she felt like an actual girl and the narrative didn't really feel like it was a "girl written by horny boys for horny boys" character.

That issue really gets in the way of a lot of the girls in the series—Miu, Mikan, Akane, and Kotoko, to name a few. A lot of times the characters do have serious traits and moments, but it really conflicts with the games constantly using them for shameless fanservice as well. Think about how many of the guys get treated this way. Offhand, I can think of Makoto (who only got a single ass shot in the DR 1 anime, and even then it's a serious scene not playing up the pleasure for the viewer but instead giving a pause for Makoto to take in how broken he is over Sayaka's death), Nagito's ass in DR3, and Nekomaru and Ishimaru getting a chance to show off their muscular bodies as really the only times the guys are truly sexualized. That's four guys across all of DR's media as opposed to nearly every single girl in every single work of Danganronpa media.

Compare this to how the women get treated. We can work in a shower scene with Mahiru and Hiyoko right before Mahiru is murdered, so rather than maybe some more time to learn about Mahiru before she has to make her exit from the main story, the developers decided it was more important to get a look at her boobs. Kirumi has to be stripped down to her bra and panties moments before her death. Half the DR 2 women enter one at a time in swimsuits (and just because it's relevant to the mystery doesn't mean it's not used to make sex objects of them. The only real subversion is that Ibuki is joining in on you commenting with the guys over the girls), Tsumugi gets a huge closeup of her breasts for no reason in v3-4, we have a DR 1 women shower scene, Asahina in her underwear, a full shot of Sakura's buttcheeks, Panty shots and a rape mini game with Komaru (one that's played as a joke) and so so so many more examples without even getting to the more blatant examples like Mikan, Akane, Miu, and Kotoko.

At least six girls (Akane, Kotoko, Mikan, Miu, Komaru, and Asahina) are given at least one shot of their panties at least once in the game. All of this is to say that even if it's not meant to be a serious moment or necessary that the women are much more likely to have to be sexualized for no reason.

It's not just fanservice either. Kaede unfortunately gets her role cut short and acts more as a springboard for Shuichi's character and to a lesser degree Kaito since he takes over as the sort of group supporter. Yes, we do have Kaede mentioned later in the game and Kaede's wish ™ , but it's deceptive.

This is an old trope where women are less characters and more disposable tools. It can be a wife, girlfriend, daughter, sister, or whatever, but they kidnap/murder/rape her and it's done less for her own character or agency and more for the guy of the story to have motivation for revenge (just as Shuichi does in chapter 6) angst (ch. 1-3) or to rescue them in the case of kidnapping and the woman mostly exists to be a stepping stone for the guy's character.

The cast does embody Kaede's dying wish, and it's brought up a few times later. But rather than giving Kaede her own agency and letting her interact with the cast to explore these themes, she serves as nothing but a springboard for Shuichi's character for him to do stuff, and I feel this is a pretty insulting way to send Kaede off and one that seems like it respects her on the surface, but really doesn't. Same goes for how Kaito sorta takes up the leader spot following Kaede's death. Before someone tries it, bringing up an example where they reverse the spots the male and female characters are in with a woman getting revenge for her dead boyfriend or something doesn't refute this, especially because this trope disproportionately uses women as springboards, and I'm not suggesting the opposite never happens. This is an examination of a trend, not forming a scientific law that can be refuted with a single counterexample.

This isn't the first time Danganronpa has done something like this. Sayaka existed to look like the generic anime trio with Makoto and Leon that the marketing for DR 1 hyped up, and Sayaka also exists to die for Makoto to have contrast come trial 5 when they mirror the game setup in Makoto being suspected and being asked if he should trust some central figure in the case.

Peko's entire character was largely around to revolve around Fuyuhiko and act as a springboard for his character. However, Kaede this time is being placed as the main character, not a smaller minor character. She doesn't get any chance beyond the first chapter and side material to ever interact with anyone and that's the crux of it, and the whiplash is a lot stronger when you give a girl in the spotlight for the first time (yes, technically second because of Komaru obviously, but I'd rather have a game where our girl isn't forced into a rape game or forced into several random panty shots and it's played as a humorous moment) and immediately shove her out of the way.

When people say they were upset about Kaede being killed off and she's a girl, it's not as simple as it sounds—it's an issue of seeing how women are overwhelmingly treated not just in Danganronpa, but in this type of media in general. They often get the short end of the stick, and apart from maybe having a noticeably large chest and her underwear scene during the first investigation, Kaede was much more well respected before she got thrown into the deep end, we show her off in her underwear, and toss her aside for Shuichi to have a few chapters of man angst and revenge and his character gets treated with much more respect.

Even Kaede's FTEs are pretty much date material for her being with Shuichi, and even though she's my favorite character, I actually don't care for her FTEs. Having said that, I do think it'd be different if she were playable since so much of her character exists to preserve the illusion of her being the protagonist.

Another recent game to invoke this kind of trope of using women as disposable pawns and motivation for a guy is Persona 5. The main character saves someone from being raped prior to the main period of the game, but because that person was threatened by the guy who tried to rape her, the main character is charged with assault and it sets the theme of the game into motion.

On the surface it paints the villain appropriately, but the tone taken with the victim makes it clear she exists to be a springboard and prop for the main character. You never learn her name or her story, she serves little to no point in the story beyond being a device for the MC to be misunderstood by society, (all at the cost of never focusing on her), and at one point, the game explicitly calls her a horrible person for being threatened by a guy, nearly raped/assaulted, and being afraid of coming forward and exposing the truth for you after they established had a great deal of power and abused that.

There's no actual sympathizing with her, and on the surface the narrative seems to show the villainous sides of power, but they never focus on what a manipulative tool the victim acted as for the narrative, which just feels largely hypocritical in a game focusing on overcoming corrupt authority. Kaede here has the same issue, so while I'd love Kaede just as much if she was a guy, the fact that she's a girl is still relevant because of how media tropes overwhelmingly portray women, sexualize them, or strip them of agency in favor of the guys.

It's true that this is a killing game and there has to be a first victim. I do actually think it's a nicer idea for the main character to be the first killer because it can be tricky to flesh out a first killer without them standing out too much. Having something that isn't just the killer dumping out a tragic background or motive at the last second makes the weight feel that much heavier. Having said that, I don't think killing off Kaede of all people was the way to do it, and stripping her of her agency certainly wasn't either.

I still stick with my idea of having the mass execution rule changed where only the voted party is executed, because it creates a much better justification of why Kaede doesn't simply speak up—she wants to successfully pin the crime on the mastermind and not only save herself and everyone else, but finish off the mastermind in one move. This lets her pull that off and nail down the mastermind without the whole "Wrong vote will kill everyone else" problem and it gives the player more justification as to why she wouldn't speak up until the last minute. I think the better solution is simply not make Kaede the killer. Don't get me wrong, I think V3-1 is one of the better trials in V3 if not the best (despite me still having major problems with it), and the portion of using a shotput to roll the ball and create a death trap is pretty damn clever. (I have a thing for death traps in murder mysteries and solving/coming up with them is my specialty, so I love it even more)

Kaede for me is the best character with the strongest character dynamics and personality of nearly any DR character. She deserved so much better than what she got, and stripping her of her agency solely to act as a springboard for other characters was a pretty disrespectful way to send her off.

And I'll just post this here because someone will inevitably try to press me for "evidence" in bad faith, as if it's hard to find examples of fanservice or the like in Danganronpa games.

Note that these are just the image examples, and I could go further if I included the dialogue. I'm not saying guys are never poorly written or used for cheap sexualization or that they don't exist solely as springboards for the girl characters. This is an issue of trends, and I'm pointing out that this is something that overwhelmingly affects the girls in the series. Pointing out "but Teruteru makes sex jokes too" doesn't dispute this because these are trends, not scientific laws. In teruteru's case, his character overwhelmingly tries to hit on the girls and the fact that he's bisexual and fine with guys too is meant to be a subversion of the pervert, even though most of his jokes go right back to him harassing the girls only. I'm not even getting into the love hotel scenes, stuff like Toko constantly being aroused by whatever, the fact that Toko's first reaction to someonoe being raped is to make a pun and move on, etc.

DR 1:

Obligatory Underwear shot of Asahina Extra points for a joke about her underwear being wet and seethrough when you get them in school mode.

A scene of the girls showering and butt shots for Kyoko, Sakura, and Asahina
Flash of Sakura's buttcheeks.
DR 2:

A swimsuit scene that goes out of its way to have Mikan in a boobs/butt shot to make sure we can get both in.
Mikan in this godawful pose. By the way, just because it's relevant to the mystery doesn't mean it's not objectifying Mikan. It's also not exploring her abuse because the game plays the same silly music it does for joke scenes and apart from the odd comment every now and then, it pretty shamelessly exists to laugh at and nothing else.

Mahiru/Hiyoko Shower scene. Why explore Mahiru's character if she's about to die soon when we can show her off naked?

Easily avoidable Panty shot of Akane
Chiaki swimsuit fanservice.

Extra Chiaki swimsuit points for making a sprite just for this even though it's only used for less than five minutes. It's not like a killer sprite that can be used in the climax of a chapter, it's literally just her in her swimsuit.

Akane in her swimsuit
Peko in her swimsuit. Again, pointing out that it's relevant to the mystery doesn't change the fact that this is still fanservice.

Mikan scene that happens twice, but I don't feel like linking what's essentially the same picture again.

Mikan's entire execution is implied to be her having an orgasm.

AI Junko's introduction and the first thing they do is a giant closeup of her breasts and have a portion of Junko talking about them and bringing up that it's not a fanservice game for doing exactly what they just did.

V3:

Kaede down to her underwear
Kirumi being stripped down to her bra/panties
Miu in a butt/boobs shot in her bra/panties
Tenko getting massaged by Kirumi fanservice
Easily avoidable Tsumugi breast closeup while training
Miu closeup breast shot
Tsumugi closeup breast shot
UDG:

Panty shot of Kotoko

The Fact that Kotoko's initial fight is literally stripping her clothes off and having Genocider mention that she shoots blanks.

The fact that during the boss fight against Toko, Komaru has to be stripped down to her underwear because reasons.

The fact that Komaru is literally strapped up to a machine and raped onscreen and it's played as more of a joke based on the narrator's lighthearted comments,the fact that her face during the act shows no proper reaction, and that she's given multiple panty shots during this time. She may cry and be upset about this for a whole five minutes, but it's followed by a pun from Toko and Komaru pretty much never commenting on what happens again.
Even in DR 3 they manage to work in a few totally necessary Komaru panty shots.

While I don't agree with every example, it's definitely undeniable that Danganronpa does not sexualize equally. I wouldn't be surprised if we got the same man's nut scene even with Kaede as the protagonist honestly. It confuses me to, because Danganronpa has a massive female fanbase (especially in Japan), so you'd think they'd out more effort into targeting them. I know people like to use the yaoi bait as a counterargument, but it's pretty toned down for the most part, and doesn't even compare to how the females are handled. I guess it has something to do with mostly guys working on the game...?

Though I suppose the protagonist switch was probably done in the way it was (as opposed to Shuichi being the ch1 protag) to appeal to the female fanbase over the male one.

I wouldn't be surprised either, because we saw some weird things through Kaede's lens as well, like when Kaede randomly decided to threaten Tsumugi with lifting up her skirt in the investigation. The upskirt switch and bait I got. I got really annoyed with the Tsumugi part, especially as they played really arbitrarily with Kaede's level of awareness and naïvete at any moment. To me it made it clear that the uneven sexualisation was not going to change just because the protag was female lol

[removed]

[removed]

[removed]

[removed]

[removed]

I don't feel sexualization is that much of a huge issue. Maybe I'm just relaxed towards this kind of thing, but is it really that much of a huge issue when it's at least conveinently written into the plot compared to happening "just because"? DR AE definitely has gone overboard though.

I think it goes a bit far when we have to have Mikan's crotch wide open for everyone and they try to also get us to take her abuse story seriously. I say that with Mikan being one of my favorite characters.

To me it's more just the fact that it happens to be convenient when they instead write ways for mostly the women to have to go through it. The guys don't have to be stripped naked or shown showering or whatever.

It's also an issue of priorities. In the case of someone like Mahiru, they could have done anything to explore her character since she was going to die soon. Instead, they felt showing her showering with another girl was higher priority.

I find the sexualization elements DR similar to the whole 'have your cake and eat it too' mentality of the story. It's obviously trying to sell on sex except it is not actually very successful, so I guess DR pretends that there's supposed to be a point to cover up the failure. For all the talk about waifu material, none of the girls in DR are remotely competitive with anything remotely mainstream on an attractiveness or popularity even on a relative scale.

Put it this way, something that's pure fan service oriented like To Love Ru, you'll see people recommend certain characters based on fan service to someone who absolutely has no idea who any of them are, and it's got a respectable conversion rate because the girls of To Love Ru are genuinely attractive. Nobody's going to be converted to DR based on some random fan service shots of DR girls.

God, I've always loved your posts so much in these. You bring up so many points that feel more salient to me than 'the first female protagonist was killed?' Yes, she was fridged--and more, it's systemic and it's been obvious to fans since the first game.

I was surprised you felt so differently about me to Kaede -- and then I realised I was just probably more annoyed about the way they'd treated Kaede in the investigation (and Tsumugi, tbh) that I found it hard to get close to her emotionally after that. It was such ugly writing. Well, you reminded me of all the things I do like about her, like her FTEs with everyone but Shuichi, and how well she mingled in the cast. The cast after Kaede is in a state of near-total anomie until Angie happens, and that's dysfunctional too.

DR is pretty much lost at this point on me. Short of getting a different team of writers, the girls are pretty much all going to just be flashing their boobs or underwear or whatever. Kaede just felt like a huge tease in so many ways, and I think a lot of the appeal to her, particularly if you weren't satisfied with the game, was seeing how different and refreshing so much of it could be if you had this same premise in the hands of even a semi-competent writer.

Nice collection, but how the hell did you miss the big one? V3, gun of man's passion ring a bell? Tasteless remix of the original peeping scene, without even a proper handwave?

https://i.ytimg.com/vi/48AvWUdB7fw/maxresdefault.jpg

I didn't feel up to going through every single game, so I went by dr wiki and collected the images from there. I felt like I had imagined this one, but it was a big one I was thinking of.

Definitely not a problem. I just found it peculiar that the only missing scene (as far as I can tell) happened to be the one I found the most tasteless of the series. Since its exclusion doesn't diminish your argument, it doesn't really matter whether or not it was present.

The wiki actually doesn't have this cg from what I can see. I had to google it. From what I can tell though, the wiki is lacking in many cgs from later chapters, so it isn't just an exclusion of this pic. That, or there are a bunch of cgs that haven't been properly organized strewn about the DR wiki. Either is possible.

Some of your examples seem to be paranoia induced. Like the one with Tsumugi training for example, or the Kaede, Sakura and Kirumi's examples. You have to learn to make a distinction between a scene that is made with the intent of fanservice and a scene that doesn't really have that purpose, not every instance where a female character is featured in her undergarments is supposed to be sexy or make you pop a boner.

Objectification is more than just "sexy" and popping a boner. You gotta ask why nearly every single girl in the series has to end up showing panties or have her large boobs featured so prominently. You have to ask why it's necessary to show them down to their bra/panties in the first place in situations that don't call for it.

Obviously things like Kirumi and Sakura aren't traditionally sexy, but you still have to ask why it's necessary to expose their bodies in such a way and in the larger scope, ask why this is overwhelmingly done to the women.

And I don't see how a woman desperately fighting for her life and enduring a lot of pain is objectification in any shape or form. Considering Kirumi's punishment scene as fanservice just because it showcases her natural form due to the saws that cut her and her clothing makes no sense to me. Are you a puritan of some kind?

You gotta ask why nearly every single girl in the series has to end up showing panties or have her large boobs featured so prominently

"Nearly every" is a pretty big generalization here. Komaru, Akane and Mikan are the biggest offenders here.

You have to ask why it's necessary to show them down to their bra/panties in the first place in situations that don't call for it

If that's where you drawn the line then you shouldn't have been bothered by the beach scene in DR2.

Really, only AE has a huge problem with sexual fanservice in the wrong time and place

I literally have almost every DR 2 character and every V3 character listed here. Yes, it's absolutely nearly every girl in the series. It's not about me being a puritan. I don't mind sex or sexualization being shown, but there's a difference between sex positivity and literally showing off only the girls as setpieces, or in the case of DR 2 and v3, feeling like they need to show them in their undies or something at least once before they're killed off. This is something that overwhelmingly targets women not just in DR, but in several media entries. Objectification of women goes beyond just getting a sexy scene or two, and it doesn't necessarily have to be erotic to be objectifying.

Please stop responding to my posts. I'm sick of having to deal with your pedantry and you do nothing but twist peoples words, ignore what they say, or just drag down the discussions in general. It's really not worth discussing anything with you.

I literally have almost every DR 2 character and every V3 character listed here.

If you don't recall I complained about part of your list being paranoia induced.

A big part of your problem with fanservice in DR2 even comes from the beach scene in chapter 2 where the situation called for that type of clothing.

Please stop responding to my posts.

Am I not allowed to disagree with you? Do you consider yourself some kind of untouchable individual?

I'm sick of having to deal with your pedantry and you do nothing but twist peoples words, ignore what they say, or just drag down the discussions in general. It's really not worth discussing anything with you.

How am I twisting or ignoring any of your words here? I'm just exposing my opinion about the matter you brought up, it's not even something shared by only me since multiple other people raised up against what you've said back there in the Shuichi thread.

Really, if you can't handle a divergence of ideas and opinions, you might as well refrain from discussing.

I don't know how many people have to tell you this, but I have no problem with disagreements. I talk with Jesusmonroe with plenty of things here, but he and I have disagreed on numerous things, particularly on /r/aceattorney. You're just incredibly bothersome to talk to, and you're literally the only person I've had this problem with on this sub. I've seen this complaint with several other users here, and I have no interest in trying to engage with someone like you.

I don't consider myself untouchable, I consider you unbelievably disingenuous, argumentative, pedantic, and not worth talking to. Like I said, please stop responding. I won't say anything else after this.

If you have no problem with disagreements then what I've been saying isn't really a problem is it?

You're just incredibly bothersome to talk to, and you're literally the only person I've had this problem with on this sub.

That's kind of subjective isn't it? Even if you dislike me for some reason that doesn't makes my points and disagreements with some of your ideas entirely worthless.

I mean, I agree with you on a few things, disagree on others and discussion happens when two people with opposing views debate.

I've seen this complaint with several other users here

You forgot to mention that most of these complaints belong to a clique (or circlejerk) that has opinions that I frequently disagree with. Perhaps they are bothered with the challenge?

I don't consider myself untouchable, I consider you unbelievably disingenuous, argumentative, pedantic, and not worth talking to.

And I consider you incredibly rude since I believe that nothing that I did deserves such a dissing. But okay, feel free to have your opinion about me, it won't stop me from exposing my own whenever I want to.

Have a good day if that truly was your last answer.

continue this thread
[removed]

continue this thread
load more comments (16 replies)

A big part of your problem with fanservice in DR2 even comes from the beach scene in chapter 2 where the situation called for that type of clothing.

That doesn't mean it wasn't objectification/fan service though

load more comments (7 replies)
load more comments (4 replies)

Yeah, there's definitely some fanservice but even then dismissing all throws away some symbolism like Akane's backstory making her careless or Kirumi being in rags a far cry from her graceful selfless devotion, which is the point as executions usually have some irony or twist in them.

DR does have fanservice issues for sure but it's nowhere as prevalent as some people like to say except for UDG, and even then given Kotoko's trauma I can at least understand her questionable scenes even if they're unnerving.

Some people just love exaggerating issues which sucks as it can take a legitimate argument and self-implode on itself, something I also noticed whenever Kaede wad mentioned in Shuichi's thread.

I kind of see it the other way around where I feel it's unnecessary at times, and in the cases of characters where it's relevant like Akane and Kotoko, that they try to have their cake and eat it as well.

If you had the game constantly make jokes about Ryoma being suicidal or Chihiro's body image and then try to take it seriously at the end, the tone of the narrative feels confused at best and insulting at the worst. For me, it feels more like an excuse and justification for having the girls flash their boobs or whatever rather than an actual exploration of their character, and things like sexual abuse especially should be taken more seriously than just being used as a way to rationalize having say Mikan fall over and showing off her underwear.

Some people just love exaggerating issues which sucks as it can take a legitimate argument and self-implode on itself, something I also noticed whenever Kaede wad mentioned in Shuichi's thread.

Exactly. I'm not denying that there is an issue with fanservice with somes animes and games in general (I particularly don't care for it though) and I understand complaining about that but there is clearly an exaggeration going on here. It's an awfully puritan view to think that everytime a female character has to shed clothes constitutes sexual fanservice regardless of context. What's next? Complaining about female characters not having long skirts? I mean even this is fanservice now? Makes no sense to me.

Yeah, DR itself does have some issues too like having a few too many moments with Mikan and some bonus scene CG's, but not with nearly all the SDR2 and V3 girls.

With Mikan at least there is a story reason for why she does what she does. The optional CGs are all optional so you can avoid them as much as you want.

In the end, I feel as if AE is the only DR game where the fanservice is indeed out of place.

continue this thread

DR does have fanservice issues for sure but it's nowhere as prevalent as some people like to say except for UDG, and even then given Kotoko's trauma I can at least understand her questionable scenes even if they're unnerving.

Oversexualisation and precocious sexuality as a manifestation of Kotoko's kind of trauma is sadly and disturbingly really common. UDG didn't handle it maturely, accurately, or as anything but shock value/fanservice, and I feel like most fans use it as a kind of lame excuse. Just because it is a very common phenomenon does not mean UDG had to go there with Kotoko if they were not going to make it actually meaningful. Sure, it can be 'understood' -- but it being plausible doesn't mean it added real value. If anything, these things often feel post hoc, and the example I'd give for that actually is Akane. Compare Akane's hunger issues to her sex issues -- both are exaggerated, but one is handled normally and makes clear sense and the other is a bit demeaning to everyone's intelligence (and seems to only come out for titillation or, charitably, the series' sexual humour, which is laser-focused on the girls as /u/TsundereKermit
 shows).

Really, only AE has a huge problem with sexual fanservice in the wrong time and place

100% agreed.

The fact that you are willing to acknowledge the opposing viewpoint and point out that DR has screwed up with fan service at one point really helps with your arguments and it makes me respect you a lot more. Don't let people get you down! You did nothing wrong. :)

Thanks, your support is appreciated!

load more comments (1 reply)

I agree with alot of what you said. While i love Shuichi, Kaede completely feels like a wasted potential and her character was just a stepping stone for Shuichi (and everyone else too).

Also about the fanservice, you're correct. I don't mind much fanservice (like the beach/bikini scenes), but when from DR2 onwards every chapter had to feature a girl in their underwear or even barely nude... it gets stupid. ESPECIALLY in serious moments like Kirumi's execution. This isn't supposed to be an ecchi manga.

load more comments (1 reply)
load more comments (10 replies)

Another recent game to invoke this kind of trope of using women as disposable pawns and motivation for a guy is Persona 5.

i kinda dislike this example. everything else you've said about the treatment of female characters gets an a plus from me but this. i think the narrative never really even tries to focus on that incident as much, which isn't bc there is a female character there but it's more just to focus on p5 there's not enough focus on the woman itself for not saying much bc the entire game is filled with characters like mishima, yusuke and such who do not rebel. basically her being a woman in this example doesn't feel the best example you could give bc even p5 has some downright horrendous ways of dealing with female characters p5 but i wouldn't count this as one.

It's true that this is a killing game and there has to be a first victim. I do actually think it's a nicer idea for the main character to be the first killer because it can be tricky to flesh out a first killer without them standing out too much. Having something that isn't just the killer dumping out a tragic background or motive at the last second makes the weight feel that much heavier. Having said that, I don't think killing off Kaede of all people was the way to do it, and stripping her of her agency certainly wasn't either.

do you think this is one of the reasons amami got the least attention out of all first victims since a lot of ch.1 was focused on kaede? and any thoughts on her not being actually responsible for the crime?

any thoughts on her not being actually responsible for the crime?

not op but: i remember finding the revelation of kaede's innocence kind of cheap, like it was some flimsy way to preserve the virtue of the character by having her not be guilty of anything. obviously, it doesn't totally pardon her because she still made a very proactive attempt on another person's life, but i thought it was more interesting when the character had actual blood on her hands.

as an aside, i've heard a lot of people comment on the implausibility of kaede's murder plot being successful, even as they solve the first case, and it never twigged that way to me at all? so many dr murder cases are these highly convoluted, highly specific plans with these granular variables that need to work out exactly right that i never had a problem suspending my disbelief.

not op but:

ExQS mE dID I aSk YoU

i remember finding the revelation of kaede's innocence kind of cheap, like it was some flimsy way to preserve the virtue of the character by having her not be guilty of anything. obviously, it doesn't totally pardon her because she still made a very proactive effort on another person's life, but i thought it was more interesting when the character had actual blood on her hands.

i had a pretty bitter taste left when this revelation happened. like you say it's interesting if she actually had guilt to partake rather than 'best girl did no wrong' notions it carried.

as an aside, i've heard a lot of people comment on the implausibility of kaede's murder plot being successful, even as they solve the first case, and it never twigged that way to me at all? so many dr murder cases are these highly convoluted, highly specific plans with these granular variables that need to work out exactly right that i never had a problem suspending my disbelief.

lmao same. idg this bc dare i say, it almost sounds pretentious sometimes when people suggest you'd have to be a fool to not realize that something was up in that trial and kaede was innocent. that trap working makes sense in the world of dingly roompas bc if a guy can use his intangible luck to get the traitor to throw poison then what's a rube goldberg trap like that. i was skeptical that it worked but went 'lol it's danganronpa it must have somehow'

right? like yeah the shotput plan is implausible, but no more so than the ropeway plan or the seesaw plan or the fire grenade plan or jesus christ the funhouse murder... really, anything since dr1 where at least they had to good graces to just fucking stab each other on a whim and then fabricate the crime scenes afterwards.

Yeah, and having an inconsistency in the crime scene doesn't do much when DR mysteries have had more than their share of plot holes or lack of definitive evidence.

It's easy to write off the murder as just a dr plot hole when that has come up in at least threee mysteries I can think of where, plausibility aside, there are just giant contradictions in the evidence that go unnoticed.

i also feel protective of the case one murder method because it's one i figured out the mechanics of really quickly on my own, so i was proud to have solved it, whereas the shit i didn't figure out (cough cough gravel in the swimsuit) i tend to be more touchy about.

I like the fact that in Kindaichi series, he always has a camera crew with him and this actually helps the series being fairly consistent. Note that the camera crew serves no purpose in solving the crime, since if the crew wasn't there it'd just turn out everyone has photographic memory of what happened. However, this ensures that you don't suffer from something the author forgot. That is, the flow has to go like:

Scene of crime shown

Kindaichi mentally thinks about the scene.

He later goes back to check with the camera crew to check the scene of crime again.

All three of these scenes have to look the same since they're, by definition, the same scene, so this prevents the case where there's some blatant evidence missed the first time, because you can then just go back to the scene of the crime compared to the later camera crew shot and it'd be obvious. I feel that murder mysteries should at least do this as a mental exercise for consistency, so that you don't get these 'oh there was a gun at the scene but nobody saw it the first time, and you the reader didn't see it because we didn't show you the scene anyway so that it'd be very mysterious'.

I was writing some ideas for an alternative system for how DR plays out, and one thing that came to mind immediately is that you should be able to earn a perk of being able to consult Monokuma to ensure your impossible-to-work murder plan actually works. That'd actually explain how anybody was able to get their crazy ideas to work if you're backed by Monokuma's knowledge.

i've heard a lot of people comment on the implausibility of kaede's murder plot being successful, even as they solve the first case, and it never twigged that way to me at all?

Same, I don't really know why so many people fixed up on it. It's completely reasonable that someone would move towards a hidden camera with the flash on, and all she had to do was place the book above it. Sure it can fail but I honestly think it's more likely to work. And in a murder mystery that's about all you need

It's at least way better than doing something convoluted for no reason other than "it's a mystery"

I think it's fair to say it is more relevant to the narrative, seeing how it's the direct cause of the MC's probation and a large part of the end of the game ties into him getting to that. Even at the end of the game, we could at least learn her name, maybe how the situation affected her, etc. people have pointed it out, but there are several other characters including our mystery victim at the start of the game and at least two of your party members that have a stronger motivation to bring down the villain, and the Game Center's around you instead. The mystery woman is a tool to give the mc a criminal record and exists for no other reason than for her struggle to be something to serve him instead. Even if the narrative doesn't focus on that specific incident that much (even though it flashes back to it multiple times, is your motivation for setting the tone of the game, etc) it doesn't change the fact that she's a pawn. If they didn't want to focus that much on it, it wouldn't bug me so much, but there's a point in the middle of the game where they bring it up again and all they have I say about that guy's victim is that she's a horrible person even though she was being threatened and nearly assaulted by a powerful dude. It doesn't get worse victim blaming than that.

Like I said, the game may portray the villain as bad, but they never call out the player's own behavior or how the narrative as a whole treats the victims. It's like how persona 4 acts like the villain is bad for groping a woman and being a misogynistic dick while following it up with a lighthearted scene of teddie grabbing the girls breasts and it just goes on.

As for Rantaro, I think they felt the shock of what was previously a "safe" character (the ultimate ??? Had always been a survivor in the last two games) would be enough and they'd expect the player to assume we'll learn more about Rantaro later. I don't think they felt strapped for time by focusing more on Kaede but we're just trying to go for intentional shock value by breaking a previous convention.

As for kaede's false verdict, it felt like an even bigger middle finger since she died for no reason, and it's maybe be satisfying if there was more complexity to how the mastermind set it up, but it's just a wimpy secret passage twist.

Even if the narrative doesn't focus on that specific incident that much (even though it flashes back to it multiple times, is your motivation for setting the tone of the game, etc) it doesn't change the fact that she's a pawn.

there will always be some characters who are used to further other's stories. simply bc this one happens to be a woman, i don't think she makes for a good example to what you're saying overall but that's basically my disagreement there. i agree about the p4 example tho.

As for kaede's false verdict, it felt like an even bigger middle finger since she died for no reason, and it's maybe be satisfying if there was more complexity to how the mastermind set it up, but it's just a wimpy secret passage twist.

yup agreed. do you think it'd be better if this twist didn't happen? bc i felt like it sorta lowered my perception of her when the game tries to paint her in an even more innocent light despite her murder attempt.

I realize that, but the point of that trope is that women are overwhelmingly used to that end. Obviously it can happen with guys and has. Gundham and Nekomaru for example both die and forward Sonia and Akane as characters. That doesn't change the fact that women are generally shoehorned into either being sexualized and/or used as pawns for motivation of a guy. In p5's case, it's a huge wasted opportunity considering the entire theme of the game, rather than focusing on the character who suffers more at the hands of the villain, is shunned much more by society than you, and also lacks the societal power to enact change, they just use her so the mc can feel cool but still seem oppressed when he's not.

I guess a good way to say isn't look at this in terms of trends, not as a law that can be disputed with a single counter example. There are certainly genderflipped examples, but look at the bigger picture of how the trope is generally used. It's true that you sometimes just have characters that get shafted to the background, but when it's overwhemlingly women raped or killed in the background for the dude mc to take his revenge or whatever, that's more what I'm getting at.

Even thematically, Kaede dies and instead of exploring the theme song of the game with her, Kaito takes more of that role of the more trusting leader instead while Kaede is more just the object of Shuichi's angst and revenge.

also not OP, but i have hardcore mixed feelings on kaede actually being innocent. on the one hand i can excuse it because it doesn't really negate all that had happened in chapter 1 and the impact it made on her character (as well as saihara's), which is actually fairly consistent with what the ending was trying to say. however, on the major other hand, it does kind of give you the sense of "really?" because kaede actually doing something wrong is actually what made her character in the first place. it basically brings her back down to nanami's level, who's appeal at the end was being a cute girl who was unfairly convicted of something she virtually did nothing wrong in. like, that's not interesting. that's dumb as fuck, kodaka.

also not OP

ExQS mE dID I aS- ok no, same joke twice doesn't work.

however, on the major other hand, it does kind of give you the sense of "really?" because kaede actually doing something wrong is actually what made her character in the first place. it basically brings her back down to nanami's level, who's appeal at the end was being a cute girl who was unfairly convicted of something she virtually did nothing wrong in.

yup. this waters down the fun part of kaede but makes her only slightly more interesting than nanami bc at least kaede had the guts to try and decide to kill someone. the only thing i like about her being wrongly convicted is that it ties in with what the game does by deluding and tricking you but yeah, that's it.

load more comments (3 replies)
load more comments (5 replies)

and at one point put her in the center of a rape mini-game, one that focused on playing Komaru being raped off as fun and pleasurable for the player.

Okay, I was with you for most of the sexualized depiction of female characters in DR until you said this bit. The goal of the mini-game is to stop what's happening to Komaru. It's actively encouraging you to not appreciate this, because if you do that, you fail the mini game and get a game over.

Moments before this happens, Monaca triggers a breakdown in Kotoko and it's a very sombre, realistic depiction of the psychological scars sexual abuse leaves behind. I struggle to see how the game or story is encouraging you to find this pleasurable or fun. If people lose the mini-game on purpose just for kicks, that's on them, not the game.

Except for the part where the narrator has lines like "you know what that means, right?" With regards to the obedience meter or whatever it was called.

There's the part where the narrator says things like "sorry to disturb you while you're um...busy. So enjoy yourself, but you know, keep that in mind."

Any seriousness or insight about Kotoko's character goes out the window when the scene shows komaru more aroused or slightly embarrassed looking than upset at the fact that someone is violating her.

It sure as hell isnt somber and realistic if the game feels the need to give us multiple panty shots during this time, has us strip kotoko down to her underwear, have toko make jokes about kotoko being stripped naked, following up with komaru crying for two seconds and never commenting on the situation again, and toko making a pun after her friend was raped.

Any seriousness with Kotoko's character falls completely flat with the situation and the horrid mini game and how it's a vehicle for a fanservice scene that puts you in the perspective of the aggressor rather than the victim. I'd call it a lot of things, but realistic is not, and Kodaka and the writing team should stay far far away from child rape because they can't handle it at all.

The fact that Kotoko is given multiple panty shots among other things for no reason later on adds to this, and in general danganronpa tries to have its cake and eat it too by giving several women sexual abuse stories while using them as objects and throwing them in lewd situations. It happens a lot with mikan too who is implied to be sexually abused, but that doesn't mean the narrative doesn't make a mockery out of her when say she's falls over and rather than taking the scenario seriously we have silly music playing.

If you want to go for the black comedy route, that's one thing, but it doesn't mesh well if the player is expected to take it seriously. Would Ryoma's sendoff feel the same if they constantly made jokes about him being suicidal before sending him off and forcing it to be serious? Would Chihiro's body image/bullying issues make a strong resolution if the game made fun of it while simultaneously trying to sake it seriously? That's more what i'm driving at. Those serious moments with Kotoko I feel don't work well when the game simultaneously tries to make light of the situation with how Komaru is portrayed.

[removed]

[removed]

[removed]

[removed]

load more comments (2 replies)

Shuichi's discussion: 200+ comments after a week

Kaede's discussion: Hold my beer

I actually don't have a lot of negative things to say about Kaede, the character, as I have with Kaede, the plot device. I guess this could be mainly due to her short presence in the main plot which was sufficient for her to make a strong impression but not enough to see the worst of her. Most of what I wanted to say has already been said better here so I'll try to keep this short.

Pre-release, one of the first speculations I latched onto was that Kaede was just a decoy that would die after the first trial so yeah, that took most of the surprise from me. It didn't help that most of the game screenshots I've seen were with Shuichi but initially, I've considered the possibility of a dual protagonist kind of thing (which I would much prefer). But really, what made it definitive for me was when I was forced to investigate the shotput balls in the warehouse and Kaede started talking about 'difficult decisions'. Ever since I heard of the speculations, I hoped it wouldn't be so because I was afraid of the implications to come but when it finally happened, I remained optimistic and hyped myself for what was to come... and as I mentioned last week, that didn't work out for me. Kaede blew my expectations away with what I come to expect from a protagonist and unfortunately, Shuichi had to come after her.

Some stray thoughts I have on Kaede:

I've seen some people complain about how the killer reveal only worked because the writers were 'hiding' most of the info...but even so, I like the direction they decided to take with the first chapter (how else they could pull such a twist?). It immediately reminded me of another VN with a similar twist (You probably know I'm referencing VN). Although I liked that one better because it fits with the style of the series, I feel V3's attempt was as effective because the twist is actually believable in the context of the killing game and thus, immediately more obvious upon retrospect. A lot of the murder details are actually spelled out if you know where to look. They're just worded to seem like Kaede's intents aren't as such. Still, I can understand why people feel cheated by the twist because it is tricky to execute and me having experienced a similar twist probably did help me take it better.

I mentioned that Tsumugi lends herself to a lot of unfortunate implications but I think it's even worse with Kaede aka Ms Plot Device. After all, she died and had her role replaced by a male. It makes it seem that her entire character is build around this gimmick and her brief stint as protagonist was solely a means to propagate Shuichi's arc...like she was a playable Sayaka. It amplifies the fact that all her good points were mostly a means to make her death and the swap more impactful. I'm not even sure if she would be the same if she wasn't written to die in the first chapter since the protagonist the game sticks with doesn't act the same way.

She can be a bit over-the-top with her reactions and I could do without her out-of-place perverted comments...but is it just me or does she only make those comments unprovoked when talking to Tsumugi? I'm not counting her retorts towards Miu because Miu's always the one to start lewding first. I guess, she does remark on Tenko's cuteness too but it's not as perverted as with Tsumugi? But idk... I guess I should replay the game to confirm. Putting that aside, if she remained as the protagonist, it would give more sense to those fanservice scenes. I'm not a fan of them but at least I don't have to wonder how the boys get into near-impossible situations where they could get such good sneak peeks on the girls without getting caught.

I was not as hyped for a female MC as most of the fanbase. Ironically, I was more hyped for Shuichi since he was my fave pre-release and in the demo...oh how the tables have turned. Kaede really exceeded my expectations and made me go 'Wow, I never knew this was what I wanted from a protagonist!' It was so fun playing as her: she was upbeat and very reactive, her interactions were animated,and most of all, she was proactive and I wouldn't complain as much if my experience with Shuichi was the same. Watching a gaming year in perspective video mention how 2017 was the year for the female protagonist made me feel even sadder when I think of what could have been... V3 could have been one of those games but it's almost as if the game explicitly chose to regress to its same old ways and thought I'll laugh along when it jokingly references its own flaws...sigh.

She can be a bit over-the-top with her reactions and I could do without her out-of-place perverted comments...but is it just me or does she only make those comments unprovoked when talking to Tsumugi? I'm not counting her retorts towards Miu because Miu's always the one to start lewding first. I guess, she does remark on Tenko's cuteness too but it's not as perverted as with Tsumugi?

This really bugged me too. The "pheremone" talk that she made with Tsumugi when we first met her felt EXTREMELY out of place, and even if Kaede is a little bit "energetic" I really don't think she would just go and sexually assault any other person by lifting up their skirt like that. My theory(I guess not really mine since I saw it here before) is that Tsumugi wrote Kaede's character to be sexually aroused by her and that's why she honestly acts a little out of character there, which would also explain Kiyo's "situation" being similar to her own just like we see from her Love Hotel event.

Hilariously enough, in the end it was Shirogane who "asked" of Akamatsu to undress afterwards

Tsumugi's one thirsty girl

Tsumugi was the first person I met so it didn't feel so out of place at first and I initially wrote it off as an anime thing... but then, I realised she doesnt go full on pervert with any of the other girls (from what I remember) and seem to reserve her sexual comments to Tsumugi alone.

My theory(I guess not really mine since I saw it here before) is that Tsumugi wrote Kaede's character to be sexually aroused by her and that's why she honestly acts a little out of character there

That'll definitely make sense. Tsumugi may have some sort of crush on Kaede, also kinda implied in their optional scene together.

I really like Kaede's character but unlike some other people who appreciate "what she could've been" and dream about that, I appreciate her role as a character in the V3 narrative.

Kaede starts out being really bland (her backstory not being anything special or remarkable) but still endearing because of her positive and outgoing personality which is basically what Kodaka was going for:

"Also, like all the protagonists before her, we cared make reasonably plain, with no huge personality quirks, to facilitate empathy between the protagonist and the player [...]we meticulously calculated everything that would made Akamatsu more sympathetic when incorporating it to the script."

from her profile page in the V3 character artbook

Anyway after the killing game starts, Kaede manages to do what Makoto failed to do in DR1 and is able to mediate the group, that quickly puts her in the unnoficial spot of the charismatic leader (due to that I wouldn't consider her like Ishimaru, who was never leader of anything, or Twogami who was much more rational).

One of Kaede's character flaws rears it's ugly head when the group faces against the Death Road of Despair, she keeps pushing them to keep going again and again despite the fact that it was clearly impossible. That stubborness and recklessness are the main parts of her character that would eventually lead her to her final fate.

After the failure of their adventure in the Death Road, Kaede is emotionally spent and affected (evidenced by how she was shown crying alone in her room) showing that while she keeps up a strong facade she still has a certain weakness. That fact not only allows the player to find her even more endearing because it makes her less like an indomitable Mary Sue who always gets everything right but her tendency to hide her weakness also translates to the side of her that makes her an unreliable narrator.

Shuichi is the one interrupts her and makes her wake up by trusting her and offering a discovery he made to her. That is the beginning of their partnership in chapter 1, a symbiotic relationship that was initially good for both of them since it made them take a proactive instance against the killing game. After all, Kaede would be unable to do anything of importance without Shuichi's knowledge and guidance and Shuichi kept feeding on her compliments and encouragement in order to strenghten his low self esteem.

I disagree when people say that Kaede's individual secret plan happened because she didn't trust Shuichi, the one she didn't trust was the Mastermind, she didn't believe merely finding who they were would stop them from make them all suffer, so she set up her own individual plan to kill the mastermind using Shuichi's deductions as a basis for it.

As we all know that plan leads to disaster as Rantaro Amami is found dead. Instead of owning up to it and getting a free pass, Kaede shows off her selfless side by refusing to get out without the others and faces the class trial. In the end, she isn't able to expose the mastermind and has to accept her fate, she gives Shuichi one last encouragement and passes the wish she never gave up on to all of the other cast members. I disagree with the implication that she was a springboard for other characters just because she died early and her death affected them, that is not only an reduction of her entire role in the narrative but also diminishes her agency as a character. If anything, it's better for her death to have been something important and relevant than something meaningless.

Tl;DR - Kaede manages to be a character with good amount of depth for the short time that she is around, she is an evidence that a character does not need some complex backstory to be good. She was just fine the way she was, still despite what I've said, I don't believe she'd be a good protagonist for the story and the message that we got and I'll elaborate on that on the following post.

Why I don't think she'd be a good protagonist for the story that we got? Well, it's simple. I'll show that by arguing against the most common arguments of people who advocate that V3 protag change wasn't good for the game.

She's unique

That's redundant. Every protagonist is unique in their own way, which is not to say that they don't have similarities.

Hajime and Shuichi share the rational, logical thinking style. Makoto and Kaede both have a selfless kind of hope that they like to uphold. Makoto and Hajime share the feeling of thinking that they are plain compared to their other classmates and etc.

She was the leader of the group, that would affect the story

No, it wouldn't. And that's because I doubt her attempts to rile the group together would have any effect beyond what they had in chapter 1, at some attempt things would just get repetitive. Murder would still happen.

She was the most proactive protagonist

Alongside Shuichi, yes. Their power couple could've potentially found the killing game's secrets earlier if they had lived through chapter 1 because I don't see either of them slowing down on their pursuit of escaping if they have their symbiotic relationship to rely on.

But I don't think they'd have the same proactiveness by themeselves until at least the end of the game. Without Kaede and after he internalized that his deductions caused her death, Shuichi avoided investigating the school beyond what was necessary. And without Shuichi around, even if she had the will to do it, Kaede would lack the guidance and knowledge he offered that allowed her to try and make a difference.

It doesn't matters that she doesn't fits the theme

It actually does. Every DR protagonist kind of fit the theme of their game but Shuichi is by far the one who encapsulates that in the best way. His link with the theme is not only relevant but it's also part of what develops in his character.

Her arc wouldn't be a repetitive one

The funny thing is that when people claim that, they generally also say that she could get a deconstruction arc which is similar to Hajime's arc in DR2, ergo a repeated kind of arc. Anyway, despite that, I don't think an arc full of negativity would give it's MC the resolve that Shuichi when he chose to fight for the lie that was their story and experiences in the killing game which means that the main and most important twist would have to change to accomodate that.

Furthermore I can't hope but to think that Kaede losing her optimism and hope would ultimately be OOC taking in account her actions in the game and Kodaka's words about her:

"But Akamatsu would never give in to any to cause tragedy through discord. She declares everyone will overcome all dangers and become friends. If anyone was feeling down, she would use her strong positive words to make them believe in a future shining with the light of hope [...]Annoyingly unable to give up hope! After sheding her tears in secret, she will keep a strong face to encourage everyone one more time. Here starts heart-burning Akamatsu March!"

I really gotta agree with you on the comparisons to the other protagonists, because in all honesty Kaede is written a lot more like them than people often give attention to. (ex: Plain but relatable backstory, leaning on other's deductions when she reaches a dead end, etc.) I don't bring these up as flaws with the way Kaede was written so much as I do to point out some of the hypocrisies of the "Shuichi is blander" argument, when both are about the level of their predecessors. Honestly, I find the similarities argument to be blown out of proportion when discussing this topic, Kaede was just fine for the role she played in the story in spite of her similarities, and I feel the same way for basically every protagonist past Makoto.

because in all honesty Kaede is written a lot more like them than people often give attention to

I'd disagree with you here. Kaede's personality (charismatic, idealistic, forceful, somewhat judgy) is far more reminiscent of Twogami or Ishimaru than it is Hajime or Makoto. Besides her relatively normal backstory, she doesn't share many similarities at all with the previous protags.

I don't see how she shares any similarities with Twogami beyond their status as leader of the group and even that is superficial considering that Twogami self appointed himself into that role unlike Kaede and acted much more rationally. Ishimaru never led anything and acted like a nutcase over the smallest rules so I see even less similarity there.

In comparision, just look at Kaede's hope and you'd see how similar it is to Makoto's. Or at her bland but relatable backstory.

Kaede and Twogami both:

Assume the role of the group's leader early on (though Ishimaru isn't as successful at asserting his authority). And yes, Kaede did appoint herself to that role, Twogami was just more blatant about it.

Feel a moral obligation to keep their classmates safe.

Are charismatic enough to unite the group into a cohesive unit.

Serve as beacons of hope for their fellow students.

When pressed, take decisive action in an effort to protect the others.

Exhibit control freak tendencies.

Tend to be judgmental of the actions of others.

On a side note, the only reason Twogami acted more rationally is that Monokuma never instituted a time limit on Jabberwock Island. Desperation tends to overrule rational thought when the cards are all down.

As for Ishimaru, he shares many of the above traits- he just isn't as charismatic, and therefore, not as effective at asserting authority. The only trait Naegi shares with Kaede is a vague idea of "hope". And even that shows a stark difference- Naegi's brand of passive, let's-all-get-along optimism is vastly removed from Kaede's driven, almost dogmatic idealism.

load more comments (3 replies)

Yep, just like I said: every protagonist was unique in their own way even though they still have similarities with one another.

I disagree when people say that Kaede's other individual plan happened because she didn't trust Shuichi, the one she didn't trust was the Mastermind

Well, I think is safe to say that she distrusted both but mainly Shuichi, at a certain point. His plan was good but lacked something for really corner the mastermind in continuing the killing game so she didn't trusted the plan would work after that point. I'm not really disagreeing with you though but it shows it was a midterm regarding Shuichi's plan. She trusted him to a certain extent but decided to act by her own when she noticed it didn't had a resolution.

You can have that opinion. I personally don't think that what she did was a matter of distrusting Shuichi especifically, the one she distrusted was the mastermind, she didn't think just catching them was enough, she wanted to put an end to them and to do that she fully trusted on Shuichi's deductions, which is part of the reason Shuichi fully blames himself for what happened early on.

It's always interesting to read everyone's interpretations of the protagonist characters.

Honestly I feel out of place saying this, in spite of the very well written analysis of the protagonists but I still feel that they're largely similar in many ways.

With the exception of Makoto, who feels like a generic protagonist through and through. Hajime, Shuichi, Kaede, and Komaru, they all feel about ''equal'' to me. They all had interesting character arcs(except Kaede, obviously) and despite how people laud her as one of the greatest potential protagonists who never got her chance to shine, I strongly believe that if she was the protagonist all the way to the end the game largely would not have had any big changes.

This isn't to say she's a bad or uninteresting character, more to say I just...feel that even if she had some amazing character arc it would amount to the same level as Hajime and Shuichi. They're so equal to me that I could literally flip a coin on whether or not any of these characters would be the main lead, and I'd be fine with the results no matter what.

I really like the plot twist with her being a killer(yes I know she didn't technically, but the intent was all the same). As I personally would have been fine with any of these characters being the lead, the fact that they did this twist really interested me....but even then having Shuichi be the culprit would have been just as interesting.

Great characters overall. They all would serve the role as the players entry into the world.

One thing they SHOULD have done, is allow you to play as Kaede in the Salmon mode and max everyone's events. I was actually pretty surprised they didn't do that at the very least. Kiyo had the potential to size her up as his next victim, she could have had better luck in interacting with Tenko(<3 her). I'm sure there could have been a few other interesting interactions but Kiyo specifically would be interesting to see given his....hobbies...

TL:DR:

If I were to rank the protagonists, including Kaede. It would be All of them are equal> Makoto, but Makoto isn't really a ''bad'' character, I'm fine with him as well.

as much as i bigged up kaede above, i feel this. i think kaede is noticeably the most unique protagonist amongst this particular group but yeah, nobody here is moving any needles in the realm of great literary heroes. if i'm ranking the protagonists, i'm putting kaede and hajime nearer the top because i find them to have slightly rougher edges, makoto in the middle because at least he's efficiently executed for what he is, and then shuichi and komaru at the bottom (shuichi because zzz, komaru because i find her such a relentlessly generic 14-year-old anime everygirl that i'm incapable of seeing anything proprietary or unique in her character).

but yeah, i don't blame you for thinking even kaede, whom i love and adore, is kind of more of the same. there's a necessary level of broad inoffensiveness that poisons the well for dr protags if you're not into that quality. you can spot ways certain characters subvert that trait (as i do for kaede and hajime) but you kinda need to like them enough to want to do so, if that makes sense.

One thing that I feel was a missed chance was Kaede being female. I know this is going to be a bit of a sensitive thing to say, but as a guy it would be interesting because Kaede can say things that males like Shuichi would be killed for saying. Komaru may have been female, but she barely meets anyone along the game and Toko is one of my most disliked characters and having her be glorified like a hero really tainted my time playing that game.

I'm not sure how it is for girls playing this game, maybe they'd just feel they could relate to her more. As a guy, having her do stuff that wouldn't be possible for the other protagonists would offer an interesting perspective change from the other Danganronpas. They actually hint at this possibility a little. She can asks sensitive questions to the other girls in her FTE's, and having her go to the bathroom with Tsumugi to confirm her Cospox would not have been possible(or would have to be rewritten in a convoluted way) with male characters.

I know these are minor examples, but they could definitely go a step higher here. They could have even made case 3 more interesting by making Kiyo try to kill HER instead of Angie or Tenko. This could even lead to a character arc of her being traumatized and being unable to trust people for a time, or something.This would not be possible for Shuichi. Many other things would be possible from the perspective of a female POV, they definitely missed some chances with that.

Ultimately though I'm satisfied with the final product of the game, I guess I'm just easy to please but I was fine with Shuichi. I also would have been fine with Kaede. It's like asking me to choose between pepsi or coke. My answer is ''I like soda''.

Girl here, was very excited when I heard about a female protagonist, and enjoyed playing through Chapter 1 in small part because of it.

;-;

I also thought Saihara was a reverse-Chihiro situation though, which was some consolation, I guess.

If there was any game that should have had a New Game + mode, it was V3. If you know what the character you're controlling is going to do, as a player it would be cool to take actions to prevent it. This can result in a completely new AU story with harder cases to solve. As we already know the big twist, this one would also need to keep Rantaro alive to help uncover some of the many unanswered questions. Alas, that's not there and my hopes for a DR NG+ branching path continue...

At the very least, I would have liked the choice to pick between the two characters for the Salmon Rush mode and have Kaede be able to max out her FTEs with everyone for different abilities (Maybe ones that can be used in the bonus modes instead based on when you'll unlock them). At the very least, it would give the characters double the development. A character like Tenko might open up more to Kaede. A big hint to me that something was going to happen to Kaede was that her FTEs only went up to the 2nd level, so that was a bit disappointing, and again Salmon mode offered a perfect opportunity for players to do them.

This has been less of a Character Discussion and more of a "how they could have made V3 an even bigger and better game", so I'll just ramble summarise that Kaede is great in the short time we got to know her. Not my favourite girl in the game but certainly in the top half of the characters. I guess if I had to pick I would say I did prefer her to Shuichi, but I don't hate/resent him either for "taking her place". Kind of just wish they went all the way to the end with her as lead as it would have felt a little more different than Shuichi did, hence my wish for a NG+ mode. That said her punishment was so cruel that it certainly drove me in the final chapter to want to tear Tsumugi down no matter what she was saying, so I guess this helped me ignore some of the ending points that annoyed/angered other people because it was all irrelevant to my main mission of avenging Kaede, Kaito and the rest.

But it does irk me a little that she is constantly billed as the first female protag when the best protag in the series is from Despair GIRLS.

"Character Discussion #74 - Kaede Akamatsu (All Spoilers)"

"

Comment Section:
load more comments (4 replies)

It always bugs me whenever she's compared to past protagonists, especially Makoto, for being one-note optimism. What sets her apart is the fact that she was willing to kill, even if she wasn't the one who ended up killing Rantaro. It shows how far her determination went to compromise her own morals. I'd never expect Makoto to kill because he was always a more passive character in the game, unlike Kaede who went to great lengths with Shuichi to set up the trap and also went about her own ways to finish the mastermind for good. Her extroversion made her stand out, and her determination, I think, was her tragic flaw. I tend to compare her flaw to Sakura from DR1, because she was regarded as "too strong" to the point she killed herself as a sacrifice. Kaede, who was "too determined", was driven to the point of murder, and was devastated to have killed one of her classmates and not the mastermind.

Edit: I'm impartial to whether Kaede or Shuichi should have been the protagonist, because both of their arcs have positive points. From where Kaede's arc ended, I believe that if she had kept living, the killing game would only do more to break down her optimism, since it's evident from chapter 1 that she deemed it necessary to bloody her own hands. I feel like as the unofficial leader of the group, she'd feel too much pressure trying to keep everyone together and feel like a failure every time a murder occurs.

Alright, this isn't going to be lengthy as I'm sure some other responses will be, I still thought I'd share my thoughts on one of my favorite V3 girls, Miss Kaede Akamatsu.

I: Kaede, the Decoy

Far from being a female Naegi clone (as I'm sure many will say), Kaede brings a new, unique sort of energy to the protagonist role during her single chapter. Immediately, Kaede assumes a more active role than Naegi or Hajime—she essentially declares herself as the group's protector, and manages to bind most of her fellow classmates to a fragile peace. Her FTEs show her to be bolder, more spirited, and notably less willing to put up with the other students' BS than her predecessors, and her innate desire to improve other people. Kodaka says he designed Kaede to be both naturally endearing and "annoyingly perfect", though if you examine the things Kaede actually says and does, you'll find that the former claim holds much more water than the latter. While Kaede's better qualities—her optimism, her charisma, her drive to protect others—may support this claim, a look at Kaede's interactions with the others show the darker sides of these tendencies. As we see in a number of FTEs, Kaede's natural instinct to lead can sometimes manifest itself as:

Offering unsolicited advice

Forcing herself into other people's business

Deciding that she knows what's best for everyone else

It's partially these tendencies that leads to her undoing; Kaede, desperate to end the game before Monokuma's time limit ran out, hatches a surprisingly clever, but ultimately half-baked plan to kill the mastermind. Once she realizes her plan failed, the logical thing to do would be to take the First Blood perk and get help for the others outside, but she decides to go to trial instead, hoping to force the mastermind out, because she needed to be the group's savior, to live up to the "protagonist" title she crowned herself with at the beginning. To leave the others behind, even if it was to seek help, would have been to betray the trust of all those who placed their hopes in her. Kaede could never let that happen—she's the hero of this story, remember?

In summation, Kaede is far from being perfect, and she's far from being Naegi. If you must draw a comparison, I'd say the closest analogue is Twogami—both were charismatic leaders who took decisive action to protect their classmates and rallied the students under one banner, only to be killed when the group needed them most.

II: Kaede, the Protagonist

So that being said, I'll indulge myself a moment and consider what a game with Kayayday in the lead might have looked like. Had Shuichi actually ended up taking the fall for her actions in the first chapter, Kaede would have entered Chapter 2 emotionally scarred, plagued by guilt, and furious with herself. But, as I stated earlier, Kaede's natural instinct is to lead—and with everyone else looking to her for guidance, she would likely attempt to repress her true feelings.

The rest of the game would follow not one, but two conflicts—the battle of the dwindling group of students against the mastermind, and the brutal fight between Kaede and her Messiah Complex. She'd desperately want to be the savior the group needs, but guilt, shame, and an ever-growing pile of corpses would gradually weigh down on her, and her less pleasant traits—the bossiness, the self-righteousness, the controlling tendencies—would gradually take over her personality. I imagine this would culminate around Chapter 5, where Kaede would finally have to overcome the lie she's tricked herself into believing—she isn't an all-powerful savior, but that doesn't mean she should stop fighting for her friends.

As for the final trial, could Kaede have made the right call? Obviously, that would depend on a number of factors—who's still alive? What happened during Chapters 2-5? How jaded has Kaede gotten? The Akamatsu that fell out of the locker at the game's beginning would have chosen Hope without a doubt, but after being broken and put back together over the course of the game, it's hard to say what the reforged Kaede's stance might have been. While I didn't dislike Shuichi's story, I feel like Kaede was a huge missed opportunity to explore some territory DR has never seen before- those that think Kaede couldn't have developed need to work on developing their imaginations.

So that being said, I'll indulge myself a moment and consider what a game with Kayayday in the lead might have looked like. Had Shuichi actually ended up taking the fall for her actions in the first chapter, Kaede would have entered Chapter 2 emotionally scarred, plagued by guilt, and furious with herself. But, as I stated earlier, Kaede's natural instinct is to lead—and with everyone else looking to her for guidance, she would likely attempt to repress her true feelings.

The rest of the game would follow not one, but two conflicts—the battle of the dwindling group of students against the mastermind, and the brutal fight between Kaede and her Messiah Complex. She'd desperately want to be the savior the group needs, but guilt, shame, and an ever-growing pile of corpses would gradually weigh down on her, and her less pleasant traits—the bossiness, the self-righteousness, the controlling tendencies—would gradually take over her personality. I imagine this would culminate around Chapter 5, where Kaede would finally have to overcome the lie she's tricked herself into believing—she isn't an all-powerful savior, but that doesn't mean she should stop fighting for her friends.

As for the final trial, could Kaede have made the right call? Obviously, that would depend on a number of factors—who's still alive? What happened during Chapters 2-5? How jaded has Kaede gotten? The Akamatsu that fell out of the locker at the game's beginning would have chosen Hope without a doubt, but after being broken and put back together over the course of the game, it's hard to say what the reforged Kaede's stance might have been. While I didn't dislike Shuichi's story, I feel like Kaede was a huge missed opportunity to explore some territory DR has never seen before- those that think Kaede couldn't have developed need to work on developing their imaginations.

I think that this fanfic might fix that urge of yours.

load more comments (1 reply)

How the hell we ain't getting shuichi harem lewd doujin yet?

as i alluded during the shuichi discussion, i'm part of the cohort that thinks kaede is the more interesting protagonist and mourns the possibilities of a v3 with her at the helm. here's why.

kaede is fundamentally distinct from the other danganronpa protags. i'm not saying she's the world's most complex, remarkable personality. she vibes similarly to asahina from the first game minus the ditziness -- a grounded, upbeat soul who prizes group unity. not winning any awards for innovative writing in the larger context, but it's shocking how unique this makes her among dr player characters. i can't think of any other protagonist i would call 'confident,' for example; dr protags are in a constant state of lavishly explaining and apologizing for their unremarkableness. she's charismatic and quickly takes a leadership role amongst the group, unique in a series where our heroes tend to take time to find their feet while the more outrageous personalities and incisive intellects assume centre stage.

and she's flawed, very evidently so, in a way that i enjoy. it's easy to lose track of because she quickly becomes canonized upon her death, whereafter she's only ever referred to as 'poor perfect kaede, shuichi's dead soulmate,' but kaede makes a lot of dumb mistakes. she's a good leader in terms of the support she offers the group, but her two leadership initiatives are storming the death road (depleting the group and putting them in danger), and her impulsive (and botched) attempt to take out the mastermind that not only gets her killed but claims the life of the innocent rantaro, a former killing game survivor with lots of specialized info who's almost inarguably the most useful member of the group. kaede has the emotional intelligence necessary to win over the troops, and genuinely good intentions around the whole cast, but she's super reckless in her tactics in a way that endangers the classmates she loves over and over again.

that's why i bristle when people suggest that there was nowhere for kaede's arc to go. even ignoring the possibility of everyone growing tired of her leadership (imagine angie's student council as a direct response to kaede's failings, for example), there are plenty of other directions. even if she didn't directly cause it, she was very mixed up in the plan that caused rantaro's death. that would fuck with her. her relentless trust of every single person in the group would be impossible to sustain as they all killed each other, especially given that one of them is the mastermind. and her confidence would crumble as she made attempt after attempt to save the group, with little result. i think she had far more room to grow in unique and interesting ways than shuichi, who, despite analyses i've read to the contrary, gave me a narrative i've seen before in a fairly bland package.

final note, since it inevitably comes up: i don't think it's negligible that kaede is a woman. i think a diversity of protagonists only helps a series in the long run, and i specifically think that danganronpa, as a highly narrative experience, has some latitude not to keep lining up these samey self-insert dudes to shoulder the story weight (especially when they make decisions i as a player would never cosign, as when shuichi decides to trust maki in chapter two). i think there's a misconception that a meek, featureless guy is more relatable to the player, but women play these things too, and even as a dude i have far more in common with kaede that i ever did with any of the makotos. people get defensive at the assertion that there's some sort of inherent value in the fact that kaede is female, but i think there is. it's another way in which she's different, and it's another access point for players (especially female ones), and it would be a nice gesture to depict the inner world and motivations of a confident, capable woman, from a series that has a spotty track record around tedious anime girl panty shot bullshit.

so yeah, that's what i think about kaede. she's not unimpeachable. i fully acknowledge that a lot of my strong feeling toward her comes from her role in the highly exciting and emotional chapter one twist, and that eliminating that from her story would compromise that part of her mystique. and i admit that the way her story works out, she basically ends up being a sayaka retread, a deceitful but tragic figure used to propel our mopey everyman protagonist. but independently of all this, i enjoyed our chapter together, i appreciated playing as a character with agency and initiative (however misguided), and i think she has a very singular place in the danganronpa lore even if she falls into a few narrative traps.

p.s.: really lovely, subtle thematic touch on the part of team danganronpa to employ a piano-heavy soundtrack for this game, ensuring kaede's presence long after she dies. it's especially cool musical work in a series full of it.

Kaede is an awesome character. She's absolutely hilarious, playing off of the cast dynamic super well. Since they had to make a new set of FTEs for her that are shorter, they don't focus so much on the other character's talent and end up being really fun and interesting. She has a great personality that provides a lot of agency to the plot

She's just all around solid. Even her talent is really good, being pretty unique but also very fitting for her. I would say it's a bit too ridiculous how much she pulls her "let's all be the best of friends forever!" card but it's still endearing and it works since the game actually ends up turning it on its head as a major character flaw, and actually not representative of her true feelings. Plus I think they had to shove a lot of her character out at once since she was dying so soon

Her FTEs are the worst in the entire series. This isn't a huge issue to me since it's post-game content anyway and I don't really hold FTEs against a character if they're good anyway, but dear god are these bad. So cringy I had to force my way through them

I've said this before, but people who say she's just like Makoto aren't worth listening to. It's a terrible argument made by salty Shuichi stans that just reminds me of people who defend the Star Wars prequels by saying "Well Jar-Jar sucked, but C-3P0 was annoying too!!!" It's a surface-level argument that doesn't stand up to any scrutiny

I would've liked to see her around for all of the game, but sadly I don't think that was ever an option on the table. I really think that if Kodaka didn't have the protagonist switch idea he'd just have Shuichi be the MC instead, which is kind of just a larger problem with the writing of these games and how they're so forced into a pattern. But I like her for the time we have her

She also gets a great arc with a legitimately sad and tragic ending. I think the game goes a bit too far with making her sympathetic though. It's one thing for her to want to kill the mastermind. On it's own, that works and actually feels a bit more gray. But they also had to make the first blood motive to show that she actively made the choice to die too, and they also added the deadline so there's a factor of her saving everyone. It's a bit of a problem I have with V3 as a whole and some of its other killers but she does get called out by enough members of the cast where it didn't bother me that much

Until Chapter 6. Fuck this chapter. It retroactively ruins Chapter 1 for me. I know for a lot of people it doesn't make a difference since Kaede still had the intention to kill but it removes the little grayness and ambiguity that Chapter 1 had. Kaede was innocent. And she died. That doesn't feel sad or motivating for me, that just feels shitty and unfair

Overall, she's my second favorite character in the game. She easily could've been a favorite if Kodaka actually decided he wanted a protagonist for V3 that had a bit more flavor than distilled water, and she got more time in the game. It would've been great to see her arc of trying her best to maintain her attitude and leadership but slowly breaking down over the course of the game. I'm not talking about something edgy, just something that ends up with her making the choice to reject Danganronpa at the end too (as a sidenote, I hate the argument that "Kaede would've chosen hope at the end—> she could' t have been the protagonist of V3." It's like people forget there'd be another 4 chapters of the game attached). I would've loved to see her develop a friendship with Rantaro too. Hell, I think she could still be a killer, but have it be in Ch5 instead. I don't know every possibility for how her character could've gone, but almost anything sounds better to me than "the exact same thing we've had before but now with ropeways, seesaws, and virtual worlds oh shit we did that last one already"

Her FTEs are the worst in the entire series. This isn't a huge issue to me since it's post-game content anyway and I don't really hold FTEs against a character if they're good anyway, but dear god are these bad. So cringy I had to force my way through them

So I was right about that. I won't call them the worst in the entire series, but they were incredibly disappointing and a slap in the face to her character. No character should be reduced to just a love interest.

Until Chapter 6. Fuck this chapter. It retroactively ruins Chapter 1 for me. I know for a lot of people it doesn't make a difference since Kaede still had the intention to kill but it removes the little grayness and ambiguity that Chapter 1 had. Kaede was innocent. And she died. That doesn't feel sad or motivating for me, that just feels shitty and unfair

I have to agree with you here. Her attempting to kill the mastermind was morally complex, but having her be framed and seeing everyone glamorize her and feel apologetic really lessens the impact of her actions and make her look like she's 100% pure and innocent.

Yeah my problem with the sympathy angle pulled for a lot of the killers in V3 is that the victims barely get mourned at all. And I actually like Rantaro a good amount so while I know the cast didn't know him all that well, it's still disappointing to see him mostly ignored

And yeah you were right :p But I do think Angie's are p awful too though they at least start kind of interesting. Though I'm curious what you think the worst FTEs are

You're completely right about the victims. Outside of Tenko and Angie, none of the victims are really pitied for. People weren't that conflicted over Rantaro dying and whenever his name is brought up afterwards, it's for investigative purposes. Ryoma is almost immediately forgotten. Any sympathy the characters had for Miu was erased once they found out her true intentions in the Virtual World. And no one really felt sad over Kokichi's death. At best they felt puzzled by his true intentions.

My least favorite FTE's are the ones that make me like a character less. Yasuhiro and Angie are easily my least favorites, but I would also include Kirumi, Akane, Leon, Kaede, and Rantaro.

Yasuhiro and Angie are me least favorite because of just how insufferable they were to sit through and just how many unlikable traits and moments the writers give to their personalities.

Kaede, as I mentioned, mainly treated her as Shuichi's love interest instead of her own unique character.

Kirumi, Akane, and Leon were really uninteresting and boring. Because of that, it didn't compel me to care about their backstory.

Rantaro is interesting because I liked his first four events a lot, but his last one was really weak to me. I didn't like how he suddenly drops the fact that he has 12 sisters instead of 1 which kills my attachment to his story.

Agreed on Rantaro. I actually think his FTEs are like some of the best in the series if you remove that one line, which just suddenly changes everything and makes it more of a joke. I still think you "have" to do them since he has so little screentime anyway

You are right when you say that it's still best to do Rantaro's FTEs considering that he only has like two scenes in the main story.

By the way, a bit off topic but what are your favorite/least favorite FTE's in the series? I know that you aren't a fan of Kaede's and Kaito's, but what others come to mind?

Akane, Rantaro*, Imposter, and Hoshi are the best. Mahiru, Byakuya, Kazuichi, and Nagito have really good ones (and I don't even like Nagito too much). I also really like Tsumugi's and think Miu's are hilarious. Though they get way worse in her 4th and 5th events

Hagakure's are pretty bad too but I guess I do kind of appreciate them in a way? Like they didn't go for a sympathetic angle so it's kind of just weirdly amusing, I guess. I like Sonia a lot but hers are just pretty dumb imo

can i ask a general question just because i'm interested in the discussion that might emerge: how much do you all consider the FTEs in your interpretation of a character? i ask because i see people source them a lot when dissecting a character, which like... makes a lot of sense when you're operating at the granular level of discussion these threads often go into. but i've always been far more interested in analyzing characters through the lens of their role in the larger narrative, both because i find a lot of the FTEs fairly shallow and fluffy and because i honestly barely remember most of them. i'm very impressed by the posters who seem to have everyone's FTEs memorized back to front.

When I did character discussions in the past, I specifically mentioned that I was ignoring FTEs. So take for what you will

I never really hold them against a character, so they didn't hurt my opinion of Kaito or Kaede. At best they're a nice bonus but I always prioritize the character as is in the story

I do wish each character just got one or two events event per chapter, and it was specific to that chapter. That way the character is more reacting to the events that are going on in the story and if you have 4 FTEs you're not incentivized to just use them on one character

I agree with most of your favorites and I would put rank Rantaro's high as well had it not been for his one comment.

If I were to list mine, my favorite would easily be Shinguji's. It had the perfect balance between comedy, depth, and foreshadowing as well as his anthropology teachings being really fun to listen to. I would also add Mikan, Himiko, and Ishimaru as their's did a good job at expanding on their general personalities and why they act the way they do in the story.

I thought Yasuhiro's first event was funny. However, having the same schitck of him talking about nonsense for five events got really tiring for me.

Sonia's was funny....but yeah, I hardly learned much from her.

I did like that DR 2 tried to focus more on the victims in some way, like Hiyoko building the memorial for Mahiru and you can see it for the rest of the game, the filler event where a group of characters hold a performance for the deceased, and Kazuichi building Minimaru. It helped mitigate the issue quite a bit. They were also just smarter about making us understand where the killer was coming from without necessarily sympathizing with their actions.

This is why while I have criticisms about DR1 and SDR2 as well, it's less intense than my criticism with V3 especially as I do feel V3 had the most amount of potentially interesting characters. It also bothers me immensely that just about everything in V3 feels like it's nothing but a lead-up to murder while you had things like Monokuma mocking Ishimaru in DR1, the spa bonding, the memorial as you mentioned- These things and focus on the victims don't at first look as if it does a lot, but it matters when so many characters in V3 feel like they're forgotten once their time's up.

load more comments (1 reply)
load more comments (1 reply)

I'm curious of the ''Shuichi's Fanbase'' point you brought up last week.

There's not much to say. I just find a lot of them annoying, that's all. Not saying all of them are or none of them have good points to make

But as I alluded to in this post, I do think a lot of criticisms against Kaede are just from Shuichi fans trying to level the playing field by throwing the same arguments at her. I don't need replies from people saying "Actually..." on this point because I understand I'm not talking about literally everyone. Keep in mind I only mentioned Shuichi stans in the post, not fans

one thing i dislike about bringing fanbases into discussion threads is that people have a very obtuse and one-sided way of portraying them, misrepresenting words and arguments is a classic just to make your point sound better in comparison.

I've said this before, but people who say she's just like Makoto aren't worth listening to. It's a terrible argument made by salty Shuichi stans that just reminds me of people who defend the Star Wars prequels by saying "Well Jar-Jar sucked, but C-3P0 was annoying too!!!" It's a surface-level argument that doesn't stand up to any scrutiny

this is exactly the same complaint i'd reverse but i wonder if you'll acknowledge that. i agree that kaede isn't just like makoto but the same kaede stans have a habit of portraying saihara just like every other protagonist we've had before because guess what, they all have dicks.

see the level of misrepresentation i did above? this is why when discussing characters, it's better to not go into obtuse lengths to shoot down the opposition by warping their statement to your liking imo, just so your rebuttal sounds automatically better.

That's the thing though. Shuichi is like the other protagonists and it's not just cause he has a dick. There are differences, sure. But he still goes through the same confidence arc (yes Shuichi fans can argue to hell and back that his arc is not about confidence but that's literally what's said at the end of the game), he makes a tough decision at the end, and the decision he makes is even the same as Hajime's "We're choosing neither option!" Their development also gets springboarded by the death of their female crush who tries to kill someone/gets executed

Is Shuichi's arc done well? To me, it doesn't matter. There are so many confidence arcs in anime/manga that I couldn't give less of a shit if it's a well-done one (and I don't really think it is either but that's besides the point). Imagine eating cake everyday and then you finally get to eat a pie, before having it thrown away in front of you and getting another cake. I'm not gonna want to eat it, even if it is a "good" cake. I'm sick of cake

Accusing Kaede of being like Makoto was not an independent thought and was a direct reaction to people saying Shucihi was unoriginal. And like you said, she's not like Makoto. It's grasping

load more comments (6 replies)

Question for...Reasons: Do you ship Iruma x Kaede?

Not really. I don't even ship Iruma with Keebo because I don't think she really saw him as more than a toy (though I definitely would've been interested in seeing her develop real feelings for him had she lived)

A breath of fresh air in the time we had her as a lead for. Really fun character interactions and also she took an active role in the story without being a passive observer. Going from her to Shuichi was a real downgrade IMO. Got annoyed very quickly at Shuichi's "Uh..erm..." reactions in many FTE's. Kaede not taking any shit from Miu was the best. Compare that with Shuichi's passiveness towards Miu. The fact that she was just a fake protagonist who fulfilled essentially Sayaka's role in the story when I think about it, to push the real protagonist who is a yet another standard shy anime boy trope forward was extremely disappointing. Shuichi only got good for me in chapter 6. Rest of the game prior to that I was just annoyed that I had to play as him. I would have liked her to have been the actual protagonist for the whole game.

I can't help but feel she was treated poorly by the writers based on her waifu bait FTEs in Salmon Team (and also you can't play as her). A lot of other people here have already gone into this, and I agree with them. We don't gain much additional insight into her actual character and why she is the way she is. Together with the fact that she's killed off just to kickstart Shuichi's development, it feels like a wasted opportunity. I know people on other forums who refuse to buy the game because they "fridged Kaede for a boring typical VN protagonist", actually.

I know people on other forums who refuse to buy the game because they "fridged Kaede for a boring typical VN protagonist", actually

That's a horribly shallow view IMO. Especially since not only they made the mistake of spoiling themselves but they are narrowing down every VN protagonist ever to one single type of character.

About a week or so ago, I was in a debate on whether Kaede would have been thematically fitting if she had stayed as (or been swapped into the role of) DanganRonpa V3's protagonist. I feel as though a lot of this argument against the idea that it could work come from a lack of imagination and, more relevant to this conversation, a lack of investment or comprehension of Kaede's character. So to hopefully alleviate some of that, I have reformatted my argument for reddit so that people who don't have a firm grasp on Kaede's character can learn, those who don't think Kaede could be protagonist can see another perspective, and those who do both already can just read and enjoy an concurring opinion. To keep myself honest, my opponent's statement in full.
Part 1

I'd like to start off by saying I feel like the idea that Kaede couldn't be the protagonist is usually due at least one of three things: 1) a fundamental misunderstanding of Kaede's character, 2) thinking that during the course of the story Kaede would not develop as a character, 3) a bias (conscious or not) towards Saihara. With that in mind, I would like to make a counter-argument to your rebuttal. I have pulled several quotes from your write-up (and if you feel I pulled them out of context then please call me out on that but I tried to include full context without just copy and pasting the document)

Akamatsu's outgoing bossy attitude wouldn't be the center of her character arc, because that isn't her key character trait. It is not portrayed as a key character flaw that needs to be worked on, nor is it the driving force that moves her. Akamatsu's key character trait, based on how she's written in the narrative, is that she's optimistic.

This falls into the first pitfall that I described, a fundamental misunderstanding of Kaede's character. Here, you're arguing that Kaede is defined by her optimism, but that's not even remotely true. Throughout the first chapter, Kaede is constantly taking charge of the situation, every decision she makes is based off of her role as the person guiding everyone else. Getting everyone to work together? Because she wanted to unite everyone so they'd be safe. Repeating Despair Death Road over and over despite the risks? She wanted to get everyone out safely as soon as she could. Investigating the secret door and, ultimately, attempting to take the Mastermind's life? She wanted kill the Mastermind before anyone in the group could kill another.

Even if her primary trait wasn't leadership as you said, this is where your argument that her primary trait falls apart. In your write up, you talked about internal and external traits. Now while I disagree with your notion that these external traits aren't important for defining a character, Kaede's trait of optimism? That's almost completely external. Kaede wants to believe in all her classmates and friends and genuinely wants to lead them all to safety, but she's wrought with paranoia and distrust over the possibility that one of them will attempt to kick off the Killing Game. The mix between this paranoia and leadership is what ultimately defines Kaede and leads her to attempt multiple ‘shortcuts' that put her friends at risk and ultimately lead to her attempt on the Mastermind's life as well as what ultimately defines her character (when she's not just being used for waifu bait, but that's not a discussion for this point).

Part 2

If both Akamatsu and the game around her (from the cast to the themes to the story) don't change, then there's dissonance in the story being told. Akamatsu would not thematically fit with the game she's in

Meanwhile Ouma and the flashback lights and game mechanics, will all be talking about truth and lies, something Akamatsu herself doesn't reflect. In her most key relationship, which would be the largely antagonism driven one between her and Ouma, well…why have them clash anyway? Ouma thematically doesn't disagree with her.

I'm putting these two together because I feel they largely overlap. Despite all appearances, Kaede is actually extremely fit for the themes of V3, arguably more so than Saihara. While Saihara is tied to the themes through his talent as a detective and his backstory, Kaede is connected to the themes because of traits that are ingrained into her personality. Kaede is someone who wants to trust people but is ultimately just as distrustful as everyone else, while trust and belief are both themes explored in past DR games they are still especially prevalent here as the two directly relate to truth versus lies: do you believe in someone even if you know they could be lying? Do you trust them to tell the truth?

This is also why Ouma's relationship with Kaede would be especially interesting with her as the protagonist. While Saihara and Ouma honestly didn't have much of a dynamic going other than "I'm a liar and you're a detective," Ouma stands as both a parallel and foil to Kaede. Both of them desperately want to trust everyone (or at least someone) but fall short of doing so due to their distrust of others. However, while Ouma acts as the villain to distance himself, Kaede acts as the leader and brings everyone around her. For Kaede, Ouma would further drive the point that she can't trust everyone as he constantly lies and plays the villain despite the two of them ultimately being so similar.

Part 3

I haven't even started on how she got waifu'd, but given how he treated Komaru in DRAE, I don't think Akamatsu would be safe from it just because she's protagonist for real. Komaru does have an arc (so at least there's that), but she's also largely played to be adorable and moe, to the point of those really weird and frankly disgusting minigames that I'm not going to talk about.

Most of the DanganRonpa girls are played to be cute, Komaru isn't an exception to this and neither is Kaede. However, Komaru's gross treatment was largely due to her being in an action game where more 'dynamic' things could happen to her as it wasn't constrained by rules like the environments of the main series games. That said are you really going to act like DanganRonpa doesn't have a history of fanservice, even outside of DRAE? DR1 has the bathouse scene and leering at Aoi crying in the same chapter; DR2 has severaly, most notable is Tsumuki's fanservice moments, half of the girls revealing swim suits in Chapter 2, and the really gross bonus scene where you leer at Koizumi and Saionji while they take a shower; the fanservice is still in V3, too, there's the poolside scene, the scene where Miu is stripped down to her underwears, a scene where Shirogane's boobs ~mysteriously~ enlarge so that you can stare down at them as her clothes become semi-translucent. There's a ton of fanservice in DanganRonpa.

While DR1 was relatively fanservice-lite, the amount of fanservice in V3 is probably the most that's been in a DanganRonpa game even though Kaede is dead. How would her being alive actually change things? Adding another girl to the pool party scene? Nope, that's too much tiddy, it's past the limit. Seriously though, in her short time Kaede is already objectified in a way very similar to Komaru when she is put through Argument Aramament. Kaede is put into this position because she's the culprit of the first trial. While I don't doubt she would have been used for some fanservice if she stayed the protagonist, she's already used for fanservice. Similarly, most of her waifu bait personality traits come from her interactions with Saihara either to prepare the player for the switch or to 'reward' them for completing the game and getting bonus mode where Kaede has FTEs that are pretty much just generic OoC waifu bait interactions.

Part 4

And finally, you're correct that Saihara taking the bullet for her would definitely strain her optimism. It would absolutely present her with two possible arcs, one where she either regains her optimism over time or one where it's completely destroyed over the course of the game and she falls into despair.

V3 already has a formula sticking problem, as all the characters you expect to die do among other things, but this would just make it worse. SDR2 works as a simple subversion of DR1s themes because we hadn't done it before, and the formula didn't go stale, but if that was done again in v3 it'd be boring as all shit

Before I end, some notes:

I feel I've already addressed the optimism critique however your argument that Kaede's arc could only go two ways I feel deserves special attention because it is this lack of imagination and creativity that seems omnipresent in people who say Kaede couldn't be the main protagonist. There is virtually no limit to how you can develop a character, however even based on your proposed scenario, there's a major route that you have ignored and that's that Kaede revises her world view based on what she's gone through.

V3 does have a formula sticking problem which Kaede being protagonist would immediately alleviate, having a protagonist who is constantly proactive and attempting to go on the offensive rather than being passive like Saihara and Naegi, only being moved around by the plot and other characters, would immediately have a different feel to past protagonists and would help break the mold of the formula.

She doesn't work for v3. And maybe if you rewrote her entirely, or rewrote v3 entirely, she'd work and be a fantastic protagonist

I believe I have thoroughly gone through and debunked all of your main arguments against how Kaede wouldn't work as a protagonist. As she is, Kaede feels custom built for V3: she's voiced by a long-time and hardcore fan who's worked with the franchise before; she's significantly different from past protagonists, not just in gender but in personality and drive, helping show that this is a new DanganRonpa from the HPA Saga; she's intrinsically tied to the themes of truth vs lies with her conflict of balancing trust and paranoia; and she has a strong dynamic with most if not all of the cast members. Kaede is a fantastic protagonist for V3 as she and I honestly believe that using her instead of Saihara would have helped solve many of V3's problems.

Kaede feels custom built for V3

I'd say the contrary. It's very obvious to me that Shuichi was the one that was custom built for V3, which is a given if you take his name's meaning into account (basically means "the final one" or something along those lines, which references his role in ending DR).

I feel like things like Kaede's personality and drive are exactly what makes her similar to other protags, who at the end of their story, always had the determination to pursue that harsh path towards their hope. Given how shortsighted and selfless Kaede showed herself to be I just can't see her not choosing hope in the end and even if she has a deconstruction arc going on that would end up acting against her because she'd have no motive to fight for the lie that she lived in since that lie would have changed her into a worse person.

that lie would have changed her into a worse person.

Not necessarily. Kaede has a number of flaws at the beginning of the game- she's rash, overly idealistic, and believes she knows what's best for everyone else. The strain of a killing game would force her to let go of these tendencies, likely resulting in a jaded, more cautious person who realizes she can't do everything alone. Would she choose hope? Maybe, but that would depend heavily on who lives, who dies, and the events of chapters 2-5.

In that case that wouldn't really be a deconstruction would it? She'd just mature. I agree that her development could've ended up being like that but personally I don't see her losing her selfless disposition or optimism which are big factors that would push her to choose hope in the end.

It's a deconstruction, followed by a rebirth. As the good book says: "What is dead may never die, but rises again, harder and stronger."

So kind of like what Hajime had just more subdued? But based on what you've said her experience would change Kaede for the better, not for the worse, a deconstruction is generally always a negative thing for the character in question and I know you said that she'd have a rebirth but what would be the cause of it?

A frequent stop on the hero's journey is the proverbial "belly of the whale", in which the character, having hit rock bottom, must face the truth of their own being and emerge from it stronger than before. For Kaede, this might involve choosing to place her faith in her friends rather than herself, accepting that she isn't really an all-powerful savior.

continue this thread

kaede is unfit for the themes of v3 imo bc she's pretty similar to kaito in that regard and has similar leadership skills and optimism. she could represent a side of the trust v doubt conflict just like kaito did or otherwise, she'd maybe need someone (LIKE MAKI pls game why did you rob me of my kaede v maki dreams) as her opposing force to descend more into skepticism and doubt.

if ouma becomes her rival, her dynamic will be sorta similar to what ouma has with kaito. it's a trust v doubt conflict which isn't a centerpiece even if it's linked to truth v lies bc for saihara, trusting and doubting is side conflict and he ultimately creates his own answer. i'm not gonna say it's impossible or something for kaede to be written that way but i think her character would need massive tweaking to fit her into the themes the way saihara and ouma fit like a glove.

Making a disclaimed that it's 5 AM here and I did not go to bed, so apologies if any of this sounds obtuse or wordy.

I've got to disagree with you on some pretty fundamental levels with you here.

First, while I'm not really a Momota fan by any means (I think he can work as a character with tweaking and reframing, but that's not today's topic), he's one of the few characters who actively engages with the themes of truth versus lies. Secondly, while Maki and Kaede would make a good twosome, she doesn't need Maki to be her voice of doubt, that already exists within Kaede, the fight between trust and doubt already exists within Kaede's own head, she's in conflict just by existing within this situation. Third, trust vs doubt isn't a side conflict in truth versus lies, it is the conflict. That's how the two are formed: what information we choose to believe in, what information we choose to disregard as folly, all of that comes from our decision to believe or doubt the information. If someone tells you a lie, you don't decide you're going to choose the truth and forget about it or choose the lie and keep it going, you choose whether you're going to believe that person or not, you're going to choose whether they are a trustworthy person who is worth believing or something decieptful who you should doubt before believe anything that comes from their mouth. If you think that trust versus doubt is a side conflict in truth versus lie, then DanganRonpa V3 has done a poor job of showcasing what that conflict is.

eh couldn't resist making me sound like a dumbass in the end, could you? i'm really sensitive y'know...

Third, trust vs doubt isn't a side conflict in truth versus lies, it is the conflict. That's how the two are formed: what information we choose to believe in, what information we choose to disregard as folly, all of that comes from our decision to believe or doubt the information.

guess side conflict was the wrong word when i should have said it's a supplementary conflict. the way you're talking of kaede with her having an already realized actuality of trust v doubt is something saihara learns to develop by the end as he realizes that lies are a gateway to truth and both of them are linked, so either you're saying that she remains the way she is the entire game hence becoming a stale character or this needs to be actualized in other ways. i agree that her arc can go in many ways but i doubt she would be able to keep her assertiveness throughout the game since for the killings to happen, she would need to become subdued.

her being similar to kaito in so many ways is an undoing bc it means kaito would either need to be removed or changed for her to embody the same kind of conflict saihara does and that's basically what i meant by "massive tweakings." i think kaede can fit in but would require alterations bc she's not an automatic fit as a truthseeker afraid of truth v lying liar.

about trust v doubt.

you go into overly long unintelligible semantics to exemplify that the catch is in trusting someone or not bc they might be lying but it's wider than that. truth v lies are turning into same buzzwords people used for hope v despair, without going into the depth of those themes. the game basically says -

lying is good and is just as credible a way to find the truth. sometimes trusting a suspicious person (maki in ch2) might lead you to the truth. not doubting someone you have full faith in (gonta in ch4) is lying to yourself.

cast is lying to themselves by dismissing ouma as doubtful when he speaks the truth and trusting in kaito when he lies. saihara is choosing to lie to himself when it's convenient to him but that's emotional deception and he knows it.

when you choose what to believe or not, it needs to be distinct from the person you trust or the person you doubt because these are separate zones you're lumping together by comparing apples to oranges.

they're tied into each other but the greater emphasis is on how lying can be helpful (can save people, solve things, protect them) and dangerous (retreat into your own shell by deluding yourself.) but you can choose how to use that tool. simply dismissing lies as bad is how the cast dismisses ouma bc he makes them uncomfortable, says things they know are true but can't admit.

I'd like to start by saying, there was no insult towards you, my criticism was directed at the game for not presenting the conflict of truth vs lies properly if what you implying was true.

However, what you're describing, the realization " that lies are a gateway to truth and both of them are linked" is not a character arc. That is a plot arc. It might have implications for the character, like it does for Saihara, but ultimately, it is still just a character figuring out how the mechanics of a system work so that they can go on to use or exploit it down the road.

Also, I agree her similarities to Momota could possibly be distracting, but there's a relatively easy fix for this (and I'm gonna be upfront and credit GrayImperia for her fic I'd Trade My Life For Yours right now) and that is framing Momota in a light that does not glorify him but criticizes him and shuts him down when he does something destructive. This immediately paints him not as a leaderly guy who's there to support whoever, but as a developing person who clearly thinks highly of themselves but doesn't comprehend how what they're doing can hurt others.

As for her not being prepared because she's not a truth seeker afraid of the truth... How? She's a girl who wants to trust and believe in others but can't and a girl who wants the truth to be simple but when it's altogether too complex. Saihara's connection to the themes were honestly tenuous and lazy so I really don't know how I can 'connect' her with the plot. What do you want me to say? One time, Kaede told an innocent white lie and it spiraled out of control and got her mother falsely arrested and jail. Kaede is actually the SHSL Attorney, and after doing it everyday, she's numb to lying even though she hates it.

As for your second points set of points: 1) As I have said, I wrote my response after being up until 5AM and was extremely exhausted. 2) Yeah, obviously the conflict expands beyond that, but you're the one who focused on trust versus doubt which you said was a side conflict and of which you have now changed your stance on to be "not literally the entirety of the conflict".

Saihara's connection to the themes were honestly tenuous and lazy

How so? He was a detective who was afraid of exposing the truth which actively goes against his professional activity of exposing the truth no matter the cost.

How is this tenuos and lazy? Kaede as a pianist, had really no relation to the whole truth and lie thing. If the main theme of the game was Faith and Cynism or Harmony and Discord I could see her fitting in.

She's a girl who wants to trust and believe in others but can't

She mostly believed on everyone else just fine during the game (except the mastermind that is). She even blindly trusted on Shuichi's deductions to make her plan.

Saihara being a detective is exactly why it's weak and tenuous. His relationship with the themes stem almost entirely from his backstory and talent rather than his personality. If you took those elements away from him, he suddenly has very little relationship with the game's theme. He's just a scared boy with some minor social anxiety problems.

Kaede is tied to the themes through her personality, her core concept. You don't need to know more about her life or her talent for her to tie in. Also, no she did not trust everyone in the game. As I stated in my main argument, while she wanted to believe in everyone, her distrust in everyone's ability to keep from killing is what lead to her attempt at killing the mastermind and Amami's death. Your own words help prove my argument, "She mostly believed on everyone else just fine during the game (except the mastermind that is)," because the key thing here is: Kaede didn't know who the Mastermind was.

But his backstory and talent directly relate to his personality being the way it is and his problems. To disconsider that when analysing his character and the way it relates to the theme of the game is to forego a big part of what makes Shuichi his own character.

Kaede is tied to the themes through her personality

That could be the case if the theme was about harmony and discord or faith and cynism. I don't see how Kaede personality has to do with truth and lies.

As I stated in my main argument, while she wanted to believe in everyone, her distrust in everyone's ability to keep from killing is what lead to her attempt at killing the mastermind and Amami's death

No, she only chose to that because:

1) The time limit was creeping up

2) She didn't think capturing the mastermind would be enough to end their suffering. She wanted to get out and smile with everyone else as soon as possible.

Your own words help prove my argument, "She mostly believed on everyone else just fine during the game (except the mastermind that is)," because the key thing here is: Kaede didn't know who the Mastermind was.

But that doesn't stops her from saying things like this - minute 26:55

Yeah, she didn't know who the mastermind was but she really didn't considered them as part of the group anymore ever since she accepted Shuichi's deductions and trusted them.

she would be able to keep her assertiveness throughout the game since for the killings to happen, she would need to become subdued.

Not necessarily. Kirumi's motive video would still exist, and even if Kaede managed to stop everyone from watching them, Korekiyo is still looking to send his sister some friends, and Tsumugi is determined to make sure her "game" continues to progress. Killings in this kind of setting are nearly inevitable, regardless of who is in the lead.

load more comments (2 replies)

I like Kaede more than Shuichi, since she felt like an actual character to me. also uh

Throughout the games I've had a problem where I didn't consider the protagonist a character and just as my avatar since they didn't say or do anything radically different than from what I could do. Might just be the gender difference but during Chapter 1 it felt like I was controlling Kaede the character rather than Kaede my avatar. And as soon as Shuichi was the player character I lost all of that.

I think Kaede would have been a more interesting protagonist then what we got with Shuichi. Shuichi's arc was a generic "be more confident lol" and I think Kaede would have more interesting development than him. Having her go down instead of up would be really interesting for instance, and that would fit Shuichi's Chapter 6 breakdown better since we've seen Kaede gradually worsen throughout the game and have her finally snap in Chapter 6.

While I had preferred she died a little later, I understand why it happened and her being offed doesn't upset me that much and makes her even more great. As for her being a girl, of course that factors into why I like her a lot, but I'm sure she could have been a guy and that would not change my reaction TOO much. There definitely were many missed opportunities though

I was somehow hoping all along that there'd be more involvement regarding her, only to get disappointed at all corners. The V3-3 motive went nowhere. Her having a sister went nowhere. My hopes for her having a larger role in bonus modes also went nowhere. Instead we got Talent Development Plan, which admittedly is not too bad, even for her, {That Kaede & Izuru event is rather cute} and a single Salmon Team interaction which is contrastly rather disappointing. I recall seeing somewhere in a translated interview that having her play a somewhat larger role in the game WAS the original intention, but I can't confirm it. Anyone see something about that?

I love Kaede. She is the best v3 girl and one of the best girls from the franchise. I love her dynamic with the characters, principally with Shuichi and I also how charimastic and relatable she can be sometimes, while being much more straightfoward and quickly to act, different of Makoto and Hajime. I'm one of these people that wouldn't mind her role in chapter 1 because it was really well worked and made her character shine, since were able to see so much about her in just one chapter but enough to prove how she is a great character for her charisma, personality and dynamics. Now, I see a lot of people comparing her with Makoto with the whole optmistic and hopeful personality but they are very different. Kaede have much more than just a hopeful and positive personality, which makes her shine more as a character because of her imperfect traits, different of Makoto who blindly believes in people and is always hopeful no matter what, being quite dumb sometimes (like forgiving Kirigiri, even when she tried to kill him, even if she doesn't said sorry). In chapter 1, Kaede proves that she also suffer of insecurities when she deal with people, principally when they accuse her of worsening the situation, when she tried to force them on going through the Despair Death Road many times. She actually question herself and feel bad that she did something wrong. This characrestic is more implied when she is talking with Shuichi, saying that he is glad that he is with her because the fact that he trusts and supports her, give her courage to face that whole situation. So, this alone, proves that Kaede is not just hopeful, she also have inner conflicts aswell.There times that she cried in stress because of everything that have been happening during the killing game and let's not forgot, that she was the first "protagonist" who tried to kill someone, even if she had good intentions, proving that she also having trusting issues for not believing fully in Shuichi's plan to caught the mastermind.

So, that's my reason for really love Kaede and being the best girl of the entire franchise. We learn a lot about her in one single chapter like her good and bad parts of her personality and how well they are handled (by making her not so perfect since it shows that some people disagree with how she acts like Ouma, Kiyo and Maki who point out those traits and call out her for that.), her conflicts (insecurities, stress and trust issues) and how relatable she can be, a great charisma (with her dynamics with some characters and how she tries to help them, including Shuichi). This whole desconstruction of her world and her view, making her be more than just a simpe cute face by actually trying to do something in a killing game but being charismatic (in a enjoyable way without always looking positive, typical and all), different of the other protagonists, makes Kaede Akamatsu one of the best and memorable characters for having a tragic arc to make her grow but also helped others to do it aswell.

best waifu and she's better than Chiaki. i mean she have more personality than gamer girl

I like Kaede. I find her to be charming and hot. I would have preferred her as protagonist, although I like Shuichi well enough too.

I think it's cheap that they had her inexplicably do things the player couldn't see even as the player was literally BEING HER; that is way too easy a trick to pull and its surprise value doesn't justify its unfairness. It's a nasty betrayal of the player's trust in the game interface and I would prefer that they hadn't done it, although it does make for a very cool twist and I still basically like that chapter. A player character really can't be the hidden killer - at least not without some more subtle (and less cheap) trickery than what we saw in Kaede's case. That's a tempting rule to break for the sake of surprise, but there's a very good reason not to break it. Breaking it as crudely as this should allow in all other kinds of chaos as well. How many extremely important things did Shuichi do without letting the player know, if Kaede could do this one? Presumably none, but why none? Because her deed was convenient for the twist, whereas doing it again with Shuichi wouldn't be surprising anymore and therefore shouldn't be expected? No no, the player shouldn't be pushed to think about such metafictional issues while he/she is supposed to be immersed in the game's fiction. It may or may not have been good for the story, but from a game designer's perspective, the player-character-as-killer twist was a mistake, to some extent.

That is what I have to say about Kaede.

load more comments (1 reply)

I want to take a moment to say that I appreciate both what V3 gave me in the end, and what I thought it was going to give me at first, which are two entirely different beasts. I dunno which one would be 'better', but I'm cool with what Kaede could have been, and what she is.

It was such a breath of fresh air to have a protagonist who was proactive more than reactive, optimistic yet assertive. She'd be willing to not just think that snarky thing about that over-the-top character, but say it to their fucking face if she got riled. The idea that a protagonist can only be reactive, can only be passive, has to develop from basically nothing at first, can't be their own character, is intolerable to me, like most [fiction Has to be x] rules people bullshit up. It's why we get all those blank slate protagonists everywhere that people rag endlessly on.

And yes, like with Komaru, it was a breath of fresh air in an anime-style game media whatever thing to have a woman protagonist. Especially in this context, where I had fun imagining Kaede's social links with everyone, especially in her possible romance with the guys. Like with FeMC from Persona 3 Portable, being in the [video game protagonist who can romance a ton of people and maybe even become a memetic harem master] is NOT the usual role for any woman outside of the actual otome genre. It gave Minako a particularly badass quality that she could have romances with Shinji, Akihiko, etc, at the same time. In the same way, I was looking forward to seeing from the female perspective the romance route for shy Shuichi, mysterious Rantaro, boastful Kaito, etc.

I do think her being written with yuri rumblings for certain girls like Tsumugi was more to keep her more in sync with the male fanbase then because she was actually that way, but my own Doylist speculation aside, the Watsonian effect of her being pretty openly bi, as much as any Japanese media is apparently ever capable of showing, was a lot of fun.

What I originally saw in my head was a game with Kaede as the assertive lead protagonist, and Shuichi as the cute sidekick, in a role girls normally had, so of course the twist blindsided me. I thought it was well conceived, well executed, and interesting to have it happen. And the fact is, somebody can go [oh I saw it coming] but for what must have been 90+ percent of the audience, it was a shocking swerve brother.

Her being willing to kill another person, if she thinks it's absolutely necessary to stop this madness, as well as the fact that she didn't actually succeed and was the only person in the entire franchise who was executed for something they didn't actually do (I won't say 'false charges' because no fucking Danganronpa trial even resembles any actual legitimate legal proceeding and that's something we all forget way too much) are both aspects that give her so much color and shading and depth as a person. People say 'oh she's so one-note and hopeful' but none of the other protagonists actually took a step to kill somebody, except when they were forced at gunpoint (like with the voting).

It even brings up a critical flaw with the very concept of the death penalty, an underlying theme of the entire franchise. Once the execution is done, there's no appeals process, there's no new evidence coming to light which could change things, as it does a lot in real life. Cases that are decades old can, occasionally, be overturned, especially as technology advances.

I don't consider her a 'fake protagonist' at all. She is a Danganronpa protagonist like the others, who died before she could finish the fight, and passed on her wish to Shuichi in a touchng, tragic, memorable way. Considering the two of them never had anything except the highest regard for each other, and yeah, Saimatsu is the king of pure ships, it's always sad to see her biggest fans and Shuichi's biggest fans going at it like they sometimes do.

Not only was she a great character because of her kind charm and her mentality of seeing the good in others, she was also super attractive without being overly sexual. She's kinda like an anti-Miu and even though they were pretty much polar opposites she still tried to get along with her which speaks to her being a positive figure for everyone.

Also, her dying to propel Shuichi's development to me seemed a little cheap since we've seen this type of thing happen in the past (Sayaka to Makoto(?) and Peko to Fuyuhiko) but I think the transition in protagonists couldn't have been done any better. Having it happen later in the story would've made it weaker, to be honest, because I feel like the game did right by having Shuichi develop gradually from the beginning instead of a random exponential growth in the middle of the story.

Kaede is a very interesting character, and I don't think many would dispute that.

As a protagonist, she's a new take on things. She takes action, trying to lead the class to victory in the very beginning even after being faced with failure. She blunders a bit during Free Time Events, missing hints that other protagonists probably would've picked up on, even metaphorically stepping on toes with Ryoma and Himiko and yelling at Miu over the abrasive way she acts. We could've even ended up having a situation where the protagonist understands someone better but ends up on worse terms with them at the end of their events than they had at the start. And in the main plot, she proves that despite that, she's not too proud to beg, getting down on her knees to get Miu to prepare the cameras for her and Shuichi.

Plus, during her own free time events we learn that she carries a notebook to jot down information, a detail that would justify the nearly photographic memory of our protagonists in-game. Not to mention that her lies in chapter 1 actually end up being effective at changing the flow of the argument, where later on in the game the lie mechanic mostly feels a bit tacked on.

Then she dies, the actual event of which I will not discuss too much apart from the fact that I don't like Shuichi as a protagonist. Maybe when Shuichi comes up... Shit, Shuichi's analysis was last week, I gotta go back and do that. Anyway, I won't argue that she shouldn't have died at all but I do think the execution was pretty poor... Wait no, not her "execution" in-game for committing murder, the execution of her dying in chapter 1 as part of the story.

My first issue is that they hid the fact that she was the blackened from the player. People have talked about the player character being the killer since I started frequenting this sub, but I'm fairly sure what they actually wanted was to be the one setting up the perfect crime and trying to get away with it despite the circumstances, not just the literal act of having the protagonist commit murder. Obviously that would be a lot more work to make the case work, and it would change the dynamic of the game, but that's the price of admission for not half-assing a "you are the murderer" case.

Also, I know it's a mystery and it would lose the suspense to have her talk about the fact that she did it in her head, but it divorces us as the player from her as the protagonist. Since this is chapter 1, it basically tells us that the entire game is perfectly willing to lie to us just to make something we should know into a twist. Maybe that's the point, but it feels bad. It's not as if she hasn't accepted that she did it, it's pretty clear she knows from the moment she sees Monokuma that she's killed Rantaro and he's almost certainly not the mastermind, but we don't get that information unless you were really paying attention. Imagine how much different the whole case would've been if we were knowingly dancing around Kaede being the killer while trying to force the discussion back to the mastermind in the hope that it could save everyone, and knowing in our heart that it's not gonna happen.

My second issue, and arguably the bigger issue is that it IS chapter 1. This is the case that sets the tone for the entire game and they are driving us out of the protagonist's head and pulling bullshit motives like "we'll murder everyone if you don't". I know, it would suck to feel like you lost all your progress halfway through the game and suddenly have a new protagonist with a new set of free time events, and I know chapter 1 twists are supposed to be super twisty, but hear me out...

If it had been chapter 5 or 6, we could say that everyone was pulled together by a common goal and her death would be guaranteed to hit hard beyond just "our girl died". You spent all this time connecting with the class, and now the person you were playing as, who is also now a cornerstone of the class gets executed. Plus, instead of feeling like everyone just took up her banner, they'd have a solid connection and many would have even considered her a close friend. Sure, everyone acts like that was the case after the first trial, but it would've felt far more real if it had come later with several days to weeks of bonding instead of a few hours. Shuichi could even feel like an actual Ultimate Detective if you only switched to him for the last chapter, just sweeping through the case with ease instead of needing to keep the gameplay the same.

My third issue... I don't like the first blood perk. It doesn't really make sense as the first motivation of the game to be a "get out of jail free" card for people that have yet to see a single execution, and it's so ineffective they need to add a second motive. Maybe it was intentional, to act as a "tragedy" for them not to realize how valuable the perk was until it was too late, but it seems like the game was expecting us to take it at face value as if the characters themselves had already been through two killing games in the past. The entire trial ends up feeling unnecessary and it makes Kaede look bad that she would put everyone through all that when she had a way out. The only explanations I come to are as follows:

1) She doesn't want to live, which she hasn't shown any signs of up until then and is never referred to as being suicidal or even having especially low self-esteem.

2) She wants to reveal the mastermind, which is ludicrous to think they had a realistic chance of doing at that juncture with the information they had and would waste the opportunity of the first blood perk to get help as Ryoma had mentioned.

3) She didn't want everyone to find out she killed him and ruin everyone's morale, which the trial and her execution almost certainly did a much bigger number on than her simply taking the perk and trying to explain would have.

Now obviously they didn't want to use the perk because it's Danganronpa and chapter 1 wouldn't have much impact if the killer just got off scot-free, but why offer it at all if you're not going to use it? And I mean properly use it, not the bullshit explanation that Kaede didn't want to take the perk so that's why she kept her killing Rantaro a secret, I just explained why I think it doesn't make sense for her not to... I also don't like how they altered her character for postgame content, almost whitewashing her into a waifu for Shuichi instead of leveraging the far more interesting tenets of her personality. But that's about all of my problems with her, and I do like her character on the whole.

Now... I think it's worth talking about ending the killing game, or more precisely her plan for doing so, so we can compare and contrast with the plans of other characters. As it's presented, her plan is to lure the mastermind over to the camera and then kill them when they enter through the library. Obviously this plan was doomed to fail from the start, it's the first chapter of the fluffing game so there's no way they were going to end it there, but how sound was it?

The plan basically hinged on a few assumptions... Well, a lot of assumptions, but a lot of them are kind of droll so I'll just stick to the big ones:

1) The mastermind exists and is in the killing game, and killing them will end the game. A bit of a brash assumption given how it wouldn't really make sense from the mastermind's perspective to live among the students, especially since assuming the mastermind's death would end the killing game seems like evidence against them being in it, since they would be risking their whole plan if they got killed. But it's also Shuichi's conclusion as a detective instead of Kaede's, and Kaede trusts Shuichi as well as his conclusions, so I'll give it a pass.

2) The mastermind is not bluffing about the extermination plan. A logical assumption, given that they'd seen Monokuma get destroyed and come back, and it's only from the metaknowledge of the game that we know they probably would've pulled shenanigans regardless to make sure the killing game got started because killing everyone on the first day would be a pretty shitty ending.

3) The mastermind needs to enter through the library door to begin the extermination plan. A bit presumptuous, and this one got Kaede in trouble... But she was working on a time crunch and they didn't exactly have a map of the hidden doors in the academy, so it's forgivable.

4) The mastermind doesn't know about the plan. This also gets Kaede in trouble, and I would think accounting for being watched is something she'd have planned for. Granted, there weren't the abundance of visible cameras the other games had and I don't think anyone without plot-based superpowers would be able to guess tiny bears were watching, but the idea that the mastermind would be orchestrating this whole thing using nothing but their own eyes for information seems a bit faulty.

5) Nobody else will enter the library or find the door. This also ended up screwing up Kaede's plan, and by extension Rantaro's. Also, this one is something that was totally within the power of the students to resolve, if Rantaro had gotten into the loop with Kaede and Shuichi.

Overall, could it have worked? Sure, if all the assumptions played out then she could've killed the mastermind, or even if some of them were wrong she could possibly have ended the killing game. Under the circumstances there were certainly worse ideas they could've come to, like following Shuichi's first chapter plan which didn't even have a real ending apart from "everyone finds out who the mastermind is". Still, I wouldn't say it's good enough to warrant telling everyone else not to worry and warning them off coming up with their own plans. Overall, I'd give it about a 3/5, considering the circumstances, could do with some fine tuning but not insane to think it might work.

So yeah, very uninteresting protagonist... But that's Kayayday's lie, isn't it?

I always felt it was unfair to Kaede that she was labeled a "fake protag". Just because her overall screentime is less than Shuichi's doesn't undermine her status as the first protagonist of the game. There's nothing "fake" about that.

Kaede (post-prologue) quickly establishes herself as someone with a very optimistic outlook and someone who never tries to dwell on the negative, preferring to keep her chin up in dire times. She also tries to instill this same sense of positivity in others as well, keeping their spirits up thanks to her courage and charisma. Her go-getter attitude and proactivity earns her the postion of "leader" of the group.

I like her dynamic with some of the other characters a lot. She's pretty pushy in her Free Time interactions with Maki and Shuichi, wanting them to open up and really feel like a part of the group. She's also quicker to challenge some of the group's more negative qualities, like Himiko's apathy,Ryoma's lone wolf attitude, and Miu's...everything, with varying results. In most dialogues with another person, she's usually the one leading the conversation. The main exception being Kokichi; Kaede attempts to pick at his obvious evil organization lie, only for Kokichi to turn it around and not so subtley point out her own flaws that become more apparent as the chapter progresses.

She's managed to do a decent job of uniting the group for a while, until it's time for the first major action the group as a whole makes: trying to overcome the Death Road of Despair. Monokuma outright encourages them to keep trying, and Kaede and the rest fall for it hook, line, and sinker. He cleverly exploits Kaede's personality, knowing that her optimism and persistence will cause her to keep egging the others on, no matter how many times they fail. After a while, cracks in their camaraderie begin to show, and the group starts to break down. Kokichi and Maki both harshly criticize Kaede for her attitude, while Kaito and Tenko try to stick up for her. While thankfully it doesn't get to the point where they're at each other's throats, they no longer display the same sense of unity they did before. This is the first major case where Kaede's own insistent view of what she believes the right thing to be ends up causing trouble for the others. It's probably at this point that she considers that merely having a "never give up" attitude isn't enough to save everyone in this circumstance.

When Shuichi comes up with the plan involving the bookcase and the cameras, Kaede is initially all for it, knowing that they can weed out the mastermind. But while they're in the middle of preparing...she stops. For someone so normally confident and optimistic, she's almost uncharcteristically doubtful whether Shuichi's plan will work, noting that the mastermind being caught means nothing if they can just have everyone killed in the blink of an eye. As long as the mastermind is present, everyone's lives remain at risk.

So despite her supposed faith in Shuichi's plan, she instead comes up with a plan of her own in secret. A murder plan. This is the second, and decidely fatal, instance of her flaw, relatively harmless in most other circumstances, coming back to bite both her and everyone else in the ass. This is her once again pushing her sense of right and wrong onto others without their consent. While she ultimately doesn't believe that Shuichi's plot will pan out, she instead goes with a method that will definitely stop the mastermind if it works, but one with a decidely more risky and ruthless edge to it. The time limit that Monokuma introduced earlier makes her desperate, and her growing vindictivenss towards the mastermind pushes her even further.

So she creates a rather convoluted contraption, partly influenced by her earlier established fondness of Rube Goldberg machines and similar devices, masking it under assisting Shuichi with his idea. I think this is actually incredibly clever of her, using Shuichi's idea to lead into her own plot, which lets her get away with anything that would be incredibly suspicious in any other context, and right next to Shuichi to boot.

While she is ultimately acting in everyone's best interest, and she fully believes someone as evil as the mastermind doesn't really deserve mercy, she opts not to tell anyone because, regardless of her reasons, she is still making a choice to stain her hands with blood and rob the life of another. She's aware that, while her murder plan is practically correct from her point of view, it's still morally unjustifiable. She knows her idea is wrong, but it's the only thing she can think of.

So up until Rantaro's body is discovered, everything is going according to plan. As far as Kaede knows, her plot will work, and everyone can escape with no one losing their life, save for the mastermind. Up until it's proven that Rantaro isn't the mastermind, and suddenly Kaede is stuck in a situation that will either result in her death, or the deaths of everyone else.

Some people take issue with that, how apparently Mary Sue-ish of Kaede it is to just throw away her life like that for strangers because of how incredibly perfect and noble she is, but keep in mind that wasn't how the plan was supposed to go. It was only ever supposed to end in the mastermind's death, not hers or any of the other kids. Only when she finds herself placed into that predicament does she choose to sacrifice herself, and even in the middle of the trial when she's still attempting to sniff out the mastermind, showing how she still hasn't quite given up her efforts of achieving the ideal ending. She doesn't want to die, but she also can't bring herself to sacrifice the lives of 14 other people, people she considered friends, for a fatal and reckless mistake that she made behind everyone's backs. Only when finding the mastermind proves impossible for her and the identity of the supposed culprit is approaching closer and closer, does she finally decide to give up and let the rest of the trial run it's course.

She explains afterward that she feigned ignorance, not only because of Monokuma's rule tha would result in her immediate graduation upon her confession of guilt, but also because she wanted to properly prepare and motivate the others when she died, so that they could move on without her. Her methods were more than questionable, but her motives remain selfless. That being said tho, Kaito doesn't ever try to justify or absolve her of her crime whenever the topic comes up, so it's obvious the story doesn't expect you to treat her as some kind of noble maiden who did nothing wrong.

Granted, her plan does end up working...5 chapters later.

The situation changes completely when it turns out that Kaede didn't actually kill Rantaro. I don't really believe this revelation affects her character in any way because, while as far as the killing game rules are concerned, which is the most important thing, she definitely didn't do anything to get punished for, she still made the choice to commit murder. Only difference is she missed by a thread, but she certainly didn't know that, and shouldn't really change how one percieves her character in my mind.

Ironically, I do believe her relationship with Shuichi, while definitely cute and I'm not against shipping them, doesn't have a lot of substance going for it. It's primarily just a simple case of "perky girl tries to help meek boy sort his issues." Not that I have any problems with that, I just find it interesting how something that's considered to be a large part of her character I consider to not really be all that important? I do like how her attempts to help Shuichi aren't enough to help him by herself, and I like how she betrays her own views by not having the same kind of faith in Shuichi that she claims to have, otherwise she wouldn't have gone through with her own plot. Shuichi's FTEs with her are such a wasted opportunity though, pure shipping fuel and nothing else.

So yeah, I like Kaede. She's got a good arc going for her that ends in tragedy because of a lack of awareness and her impulsiveness, not to mention her somewhat misguided sense of justice. I still think she's just as worthy of being called a protagonist as Shuichi is, but your mileage may vary I suppose.

I don't really have any feelings on which protagonist is "better". Both of them have solid arcs that begin and end in different places, and comparing the two seems a rather fruitless endeavor imo since they're so fundamentally different. You can maybe speculate on where her character would go, but I never think very hard on what ifs (unless my wife is involved).

insert thicc comment

Kaede was conceived from the ground-up as a decoy protagonist. Considering how skeptical people were of her from the outset, I'd say she failed. Not to say that she's a bad character - just that she did not succeed at what an ideal decoy protagonist SHOULD do: Fool the audience. It didn't take much time for me to dig up a Reddit post which accurately predicts her role in the story. Hell, I think anyone who was around on this sub from November-December 2016 should be able to remember how frequent this theory was, to the point of "DAE Kaede DIES Chapter 1 and we play as [Robot dude/Shuichi/Maki/Rantaro] the rest of the game?!?" getting downvoted on sight because we were tired of hearing the same old BOLD PREDICTIONS. As far as I'm aware, Japanese audiences were similarly skeptical - just look at this chart of their survival predictions: Both Maki and Shuichi were ranked above Kaede. And there were many reasons for this, but I'll keep it to the 3 biggest:

Kaede immediately contrasted with previous main game protagonists both by being female and by having a unique talent. Superficial differences, perhaps, but differences nonetheless.

At this point in the franchise, we'd used up most other roles that could make for shocking early deaths. Killing off the protagonist was the logical conclusion of this trend.

More relevant to Japanese audiences, but Kaede's VA was relatively obscure. An odd choice for the main protagonist of such a popular franchise, isn't it? By contrast, Shuichi's VA, Megumi Hayashibara, was yet another woman doing a male voice, like our past two protagonists, and a massively popular VA at that. I can't imagine this went unnoticed.

Now, in the artbook Kodaka comments that he took care to avoid giving Kaede any huge personality quirks or making her stand out. The problem here is sure, that was his intention, but... he failed. Her personality is relatively down-to-earth, sure, but I think there's enough evidence in the rest of my comment that not only could we tell from the outset that something was different about her, but that it was enough for many to be skeptical that she was the real protagonist.

I have a LOT more to say about Kaede, but I'll keep to this one topic for this one comment. In summary, I find her role in the story utterly unfitting, because it's almost exactly what I imagined Kodaka was gonna do if he were to stick to the formulas of past games. I was at some point convinced over the course of a few months that maybe she'd really get the chance to be an actual protagonist, but in hindsight that was merely something I wanted, and if I'd been more objective (and less judgemental of those who said otherwise) I dunno if I ever would've been fooled. Not to say that the execution is lacking, or that V3-1 fell flat on an emotional level; just that the base concept fails to impress or meaningfully subvert expectations.

Kaede was conceived from the ground-up as a decoy protagonist. Considering how skeptical people were of her from the outset, I'd say she failed. Not to say that she's a bad character - just that she did not succeed at what an ideal decoy protagonist SHOULD do: Fool the audience

Some people expected something like that to happen because it wasn't a twist DR had done yet, a lot of other people didn't though and were extremely defensive when facing that theory, finally based on the first impressions thread here in the subreddit and with how many people got stumped in the first trial I don't think it's fair to say that the twist failed due to her supposedly not fooling the audience.

You're not completely wrong; some people were fooled. However, it's difficult to truly measure how many were, and I suspect many of the people who were stumped in Chapter 1 weren't around during prerelease discussion. I think most of the backlash against the Kaede dying theory was partially due to emotional bias, and partially because people just got sick of seeing it everywhere (and a lot of the posts proposing such a theory were pretty low-effort). Even if many were fooled, the twist fell flat for me personally as well as, I can only assume, a significant fraction of the playerbase that might've otherwise been tricked had there not been so many red flags.

We might as well make a strawpoll asking the subreddit how many people here were fooled by the chapter 1 twist.

B E S T

G I R L

Everybody else is writing these 100-page treatises on Kaede as a character, meanwhile I'm sitting here like, "she's cute, she's thicc, she's not insane or a thot, i'd 10,000,000% marry her"

To be fair, you need a very high IQ to understand Kaede. Her titties may not be exactly subtle, but that's the point, they are merely a cute gift wrap for the real, wonderful award which lies in looking past them.

when you think about it, motorboating a girl is the closest you can get to her heart

thanks now i know what motorboating means in this context

"Shuichi... can you hear my heartbeat?"

"MMMMMFFFFFFF"

Also...

Talent: Pianist

Status: Wife

fixed

Kaede is a good character but to be honest shes probably the last person i would choose to be the protagonist for v3, one reason being her fte's whilst a lot of people see kaede calling miu out and all of that, i see her stopping us from getting to know her, pretty much making it annoying so im pretty glad we ended up playing shuichi instead, but im not trying to start a war (even though id take shuichi by a mill) i just dont want kaede as a protag pretty much because i dont think deconstruction would be interesting at all

Other then that she is a good character, fact is shes my best girl but out of all the interesting choices i could pick of being the protagonist she would probably be the last

Kaede is the best DR protagonist, in part because she's way more proactive in trying to solve problems than the others, which probably is part of why the writers felt they had to kill her off and replace her with a more passive protagonist like Shuichi who'd just kind of forget about the secret room in the library until the final chapter. I liked that she was more of a leader, I liked that she was openly horny for Rantaro, Shuichi, and kind of Tsumugi. There was a lot that could've gone on with that.

I get that she probably would've been really hard to write, as active characters tend to be, but it was just so refreshing to be playing as a character who had opinions and acted on them. You could've done all sorts of things with her you couldn't do with player-avatars like Shuichi. She could've joined Angie's cult, for one! That would've been cool! Or she doesn't get framed for a murder but still attempts one and everyone's like O_O and she loses her leadership position. Or a million other things beyond "Gotta uncover the truth oh no the truth sucks" volume three.

load more comments (1 reply)

I'm not good at putting my thoughts into words, but there's a great post on tumblr that did it for me
What I can say though, when people say that she is less developed than the protagonists, and that her personality doesn't work-well, of course she's less developed, she died in chapter one! How can she have an arc to rival Shuichi's if she dies in the beginning of the game? And there are certainly ways she could have worked as the protagonist, but she was written to be the martyr, not the hero. It would only take a minor tweaking to make her a good protagonist and not just Sayaka 2.0

Ironically, I was spoiled a bit checking out her voice-actor while I was stuck on picking who "really" did it in Ch. 1 trial. Was thinking she'll die later in the game and would be a good development for Shuichi. But Kodaka be like lolnope and did it right from the get-go in the trial. But the worst part is the fact she died for the worst antagonist in the entire series because of no one biting Monokuma's threat, but I digress.

Anyway, she was an ok decoy protagonist that felt almost too good to throw away. Clearly, there's not a lot of main female protagonists that take center stage outside of side games, so she felt like fresh air while she was alive. Gave decent pointers to everyone, made interesting remarks and was a good matchup with Sucii. I didn't cry from her untimely punishment but it did put me off, especially since it was a lot more brutal than previously.

I'm late and this probably will be read by only a few people, so here goes nothing.

At the start I did not like her. Kaede felt like a generic nakama type protagonist for me and I'm kind of burned out on that due to many shonen protags being that way (and while I think those types can be good as part of the supporting case, like Kaito, I get tired easily of MCs who are like that)

I began to like Kaede once her crime was clear to me, it felt like an interesting and daring twist to put in the game, especially when so many people in the west were hyped about "the first DR female protagonist!" ( RIP Komaru)

Funnily enough, when it was revealed that she was the killer, I didn't want her to go and I remember disliking having to play as Shuichi initially since I thought he would instantly become this ultra gary stu guy by using Kaede's ghost powers (AKA Hajime in the DR2 finale). I was thankful that the development he received was only superficial. Kaede's death clearly did more bad to him than good despite his desire to change being strenghtened which is why I don't think her death springboarded his development, his time with her is what did that.

So in the end, I guess I learned to appreciate her character despite my initial misgivings about her.

Loved her.KAEDE DID NOTHING WRONG

Kaede is best girl.

It feels unceremonious if I talk about Kaede in detail now, since there's still plenty of characters left. So for the time being, I'll just make it short.

Kaede is legendary. For someone whose arc lasts one chapter, she manages to be far more realistically and believably developed than any character in the series with more screentime than her. I honestly wish more characters in the series are as well explored and developed as she is because she's proof that you can do so much with a character regardless of the amount of spotlight.

EDIT: I'm curious to know why this comment gets downvoted so much, did I make any remarks that offend people here like I did with Miu on the Gonta one? I think what I said isn't any different than what everyone else here did, so what's there that I'm being disagreed on?

​ Hey, changing flair just to show my not already obvious bias for this week ! Seemed tho like I was too beat to add my comment first so a lot of points here were (again) already brought up but at least I did a thing like every week.

Aaah, Akamatsu Kaede, how many hopes I've placed into you...

After going from DR3 I was kinda burnt out from all that happened in it and just wanted since the half of the show that this farce ends, for better or worst. Of course it was even worse than I initially thought to begin with, and was desperate to think that V3 would go on a completely new direction, thinking that Kodaka and his team also had enough with the Kibougamine series and wished to move on to something -warning for key word- NEW. Which was what V3 initially promised, and that first started with the protagonist originally presented in the trailer.

For what was presented in the Famitsu profiles at first, the text about her and how she's an hardworker for example, or the interview made with her seiyuu, Sayaka Kanda, Akamatsu was clearly set in stone to have something different to go on with the dynamic that was usually put between the protagonist and the other members of the cast in this series while still remaining "protag-like", which is quite evident whe-

"But she's nothing original at all, she's just Naegi on steroids like he was in Chapter 6 lol"
....Oh well. I ain't even going to bother on this ridiculous point as I will just copy paste the following from a late post :

It's just like people aren't understanding what makes a character a character, or that unhappy that people are dissing their boy or something so they had to come up with an excuse like that. Just because she says that piano is her one redeeming quality means she's Naegi on steroids or some shit. In that case, let's just say that Hoshi is just Hanamura but less perverted, that also works. That makes me feel like people didn't play the games for more than two seconds. In the beginning of the game, Akamatsu already establishes herself as the leader of the group and then already tries to seek a way out with everyone. That's called being - guess what - proactive. That doesn't make her automatically perfect as the others call her out on being pushy to the point that it becomes dangerous since they are risking their lives on the Death Road. Let's not talk about her taking advantage of someone's plan and have murder on their mind to find a solution to the whole problem, of course. Did anyone remembered Naegi in the beginning of DR1 ? He just quickly introduced himself, and the only time he barely spoke wasn't even to be the leader that he's not, he was suckerpunched by Oowada, which made quite the impression among the group. Oh wait, was that the same impression made as trying to lead the group ?

No. Of course not.

Naegi wouldn't even have the balls to try and attempt to murder someone as the game established that he's an introvert while Akamatsu is an extrovert. He also considers himself quite forgettable for being the « Unluckster » as he said himself, for not directly saying things out loud and he considers himself inferior for just entering on luck. That for me just exemplifies how much different they are. Just because X character has an optimism as a characteristic doesn't mean it's 100% Naegi (and for me he even barely qualifies as a character as he only really have that for him). In one chapter alone, Akamatsu acted more as the Imposter in SDR2 or Ishimaru in DR1 (who were the ones trying to lead at the beginning). I'd consider also drawing back to the manner Hinata had to speak things out loud, even when he had the insecurity (that he covered with a facade).

Also gonna add that unlike Naegi, Akamatsu doesn't have any qualms about lying at all. Only time when Naegi lied, it wasn't easy to do at all and required to think a lot about it. Akamatsu meanwhile had control of her trial, yes, but she didn't even think twice about it (and the game has you to introduce the lie mechanic - only time when the mechanic was good to use). The fact that also we compare a character who barely developed during the sole chapter she's in to someone who had more time to make dynamics with other characters for an entire game. As it stands, I can barely feel like the comparaison now holds any weight.

Now, I may have exaggerated a bit by calling Akamatsu "unique", of sorts. Is she, in fact ? Not really, but that's the thing in DR to have mostly characters who take anime stereotypes with some twists around it, after all. Characters like Akamatsu (and like I said before, , you can see those kind of genki girls, full confident and leading things a lot in media. However, the difference is that you get to play as one and she's allowed to be the main character in the story. If that kind of thing is actually pretty normal to see nowadays then holy crap, I want to live in that dimension immediately, but alas, not much of those forms of stories like this exist.

And this isn't to say that only Akamatsu is unique and the others before are the exact same things : while each story has something proper to say even in regard to their main characters, the thing is that the three of them still had the same deal around "no confidence blah blah blah oh getting more blah blah blah", even if it was each expressed in a different light. Again, playing someone who can make decisions from the get-go and already have a ton of confidence, again, possible in many stories, but never the central focus most of the time, which would've been something quite groundbreaking, if the dev team bothered to actually make a different game.

"The unique proactive action she does is because she isn't the protagonist afterwards"
What, the fact that she decides to kill? That's what's so bothering to people? That can be easily reworked y'know. And it's not like it was the only proactive thing that she did. Hardly. Yes there is the whole plan that was also possible with Saihara sticking his butt to her 24/7 for the entire chapter and him noticing some details and putting the whole thing in motion (note that he wouldn't be able to do jack shit if Akamatsu didn't give him The Push for that in the first place). Remember however who took the lead with an Inspiring Talk after the prologue to encourage everyone (like Ishimaru did in DR1 tho it required Kirigiri to shake him up). Remember who pushed, again, and again, for everyone to go through the Death Road, despite the fact that it will OBVIOUSLY cause them more harm than good. Hmm, how about we think about those events and what could it follow to, y'know, like some conflict among the group but also herself, for example, stuff like that.

"She would only remain static for the entire game, she had no room to grow after all"
Gonna politely again call bullshit on this matter, as I already did on the last thread, but it's still utterly ridiculous and also rather insulting that we NEED a "neutral/need to relate to" protag as a NECESSITY in this kind of game. Everyone is unique, different, with diverse and varied tastes, none are necessarily part of the one-hundred colors in a box, so the idea of " absolute relatability" is going, on a writing point of view, to fail no matter what, since, well, you aren't going to exactly except that from anyone that you're going to self-interest into that main character unlike, say, he's an avatar created for the player (a la Skyrim, for lack of a better example). For a series that relies a lot on the characters and their dynamics, just having one of them trying to appeal to everyone and make it a bland mush would be almost suicide.

And to anyone who questions that a character like this would've no way to develop, then again : get an imagination. It's amazing how some you can have some fan content like an extremely good fanfiction do way more at this level than a game who obviously, on term of time, money and ressources. Now it's not without flaws, especially concerning Akamatsu Spoiler for said fanfiction

"She wouldn't fit the themes of the game at all"
Actually ? She would waay more than what we actually got. I think u/Gold_Starz
 summed it better however :

Despite all appearances, Kaede is actually extremely fit for the themes of V3, arguably more so than Saihara. While Saihara is tied to the themes through his talent as a detective and his backstory, Kaede is connected to the themes because of traits that are ingrained into her personality. Kaede is someone who wants to trust people but is ultimately just as distrustful as everyone else, while trust and belief are both themes explored in past DR games they are still especially prevalent here as the two directly relate to truth versus lies: do you believe in someone even if you know they could be lying? Do you trust them to tell the truth?

For Saihara you just have a few parts that may relate to said themes in like, chapters 4 and 5. Difference is :

For Chapter 4 it's just finding the truth despite someone else not willing to just because, so it's not because of any truth lies juggling shit like that, just "do or die" and they cover it with THEMES that they keep repeating a lot so that it just goes into your brain and make you believe it's a THEME or something.

For Chapter 5... ok it could work if they actually didn't make it look like Saihara was an idiot to just go along with the plan at the last minute, have this "lie" mechanic at the end and just have it don't lead... anywhere afterwards.

For Akamatsu ? She already has no qualms against lying like she said, but there is also that conversation she has in the elevator before her own trial and this way we could see how she already has her beliefs around it and how it could develop instead of just making that work as a springboard for something else. There is also how her and Ouma shared a similar goal at some point (even if Ouma got more preparation for it and had also other goals along with that), so that could set for some similarities and make for conflict in story (plus Akamatsu's the only person to not take anything he says at shock value... unlike the entirety of the cast which includes that oh-so-smart tantei we all ""need"" to rely on for plot reasons and considers him like he's just a guy who causes shit, so more power to her.)

"She would've chosen Hope at the end anyway"
Yes. She would have. Absolutely.

But only if she stayed the same as her Chapter 1 self. People who think that Again who says she couldn't grow for the whole game AND make the same choice ? Oh wait, already answered that. But again it's also ridiculous (for someone who, again, had no issues to resorting to lies and murder) that it would just end up like that one other kind of character that was like... in completely different setting or even character.

As far as more parts of the character herself and how I enjoyed playing as her.. hmm.

I played while already knowing the so much obvious twist (like there was no reason for Akamatsu to really LIE to herself in her thoughts, when it would've been simpler to.. not say much), but even so, I still greatly enjoyed the time she was around and how it played around with the characters. She mostly never took anyone's shit at all which was enjoying to see (I like that in a character), there was already talk about how the Free Time Events were handled with her, like her skipping Gonta's obsession with bugs because she didn't like it, or for example how Shinguuji starts talking about the music and its use in his talent. Better than usually just having your character talk about their SHSL for 5 events and in the end you get an encouraging shit to say at the end. Here, Akamatsu has for each character a specific reason to see them and tries to improve on some of them (Iruma, Shirogane, Tojo, Yumeno, the list can go on but those are the main examples). That makes for a new dynamic to see and not something people see much often since I don't think a lot come back at Chapter 1 afterwards unless they want to complete everything. And from the FTEs, those dynamics could do wonders for an entire game if she had to spend more time with more classmates and not one we're going to force to keep company, again, for some reason. It's important because like I brought up [with Momota on his thread](), aside from a special event and the FTEs, Akamatsu had barely any time to develop with anyone else, so the entire thing like they keep a promise to her when they didn't knew much from her at all. Even the guy she spent the most time with feels like he can say something but he shouldn't, especially when most of his thoughts about her is when he sees a piano he's all like "A piano... I would like to see Akamatsu-san play it again..." ...Nice goddamn sense of priorities for such a "cherished" person here, little shit.

She wouldn't be probably a sort of "main force" in the trials since her talent isn't exactly built for solving mysteries, but I never saw that as an issue. Also why would we need ONLY one character to solve everything, or even three ? Isn't it supposed to feel like an ensemble ? I get that it's hard to have 16 students juggle like that, but it's certainly possible. The way I see it, Akamatsu cannot obviously do everything by herself, but she can "commands" and keep control. Why not have her control then who is relevant to the trial at end and what evidence comes by, while others (like, for example, Ki-Bo) check facts, others like Tojo or Hoshi propose theories, etc, etc. It can be hard, but when most characters are taken advantage of (in a good way) in the narrative like that, that's when Danganronpa I feel can be at its best.

A note also about how people seem to (excuse the lack of better term) bitch about how some fans just wanted to play a girl and just say that it's because of that only. I just wanted to point out how disgenuine this one sounds. For me personally I don't give a shit about the gender of the character I'm playing and even if Akamatsu is my favorite in this game I'd have liked her the same way if she was a dude. The thing is, some fans wish to play as the character who can also match their gender as well, again, IN A MAIN GAME OF THE SERIES (yes because I see that dude coming in the back with "lol play as komaru lol ryouko"). Girls in this series don't get that much good treatment in the end since DR1, and even if we got a liiiiiiiiiitle better on some parts of AE (not all of them, like THAT part), and that the girls of V3 were definitely more passable characters, more than the guys, IMO, but most of them still got screwed over for not much, and Akamatsu had by far the worst of them all. Even if I know that someone's gonna bring up Word of God on this since he said once on interview "I don't mind much about the gender of the characters I write". He's maybe not ATLUS, but this is also the same guy who in one game and one anime, in like almost six months of interval, had at least... what, three cases of a girl dying and serve as a springboard for a dude's development ? Not as genderblind as he likes to think. Again, wouldn't have minded at all that we played for whatever gender, but that still speaks for how in the end, the female characters in this series get treated, as it is also in the whole industry.

But then I see how most people (thankfully not on this thread for most, thank goodness) react to it, just move along and close their minds on what could've been and think this can be enough when this series has barely reached its maximum potential and don't see what new heights we can achieve with some characters like the one we're discussing here... I start to think, have we just accepted mediocrity to that level ? I wish there was still hope...

...Dammit I should really post these sooner.

load more comments (3 replies)

Just because X character has an optimism as a characteristic doesn't mean it's 100% Naegi

Agreed that she isn't Naegi 2.0 but she is similar to him on some matters. As you said her optimism is one of them but also her humility and how selfless she can be.

(note that he wouldn't be able to do jack shit if Akamatsu didn't give him The Push for that in the first place)

You're right that he felt encouraged by her support but if I recall the first time he talked to her was when she was feeling down right? He had noticed the hidden door much sooner during when they were talking with everyone.

Remember who pushed, again, and again, for everyone to go through the Death Road, despite the fact that it will OBVIOUSLY cause them more harm than good. How about we think about those events and what could it follow to, y'know, like some conflict among the group but also herself, for example, stuff like that.

That's a good point. It'd be a good angle to explore that if Kaede was the actual protagonist.

For a series that relies a lot on the characters and their dynamics, just having one of them trying to appeal to everyone and make it a bland mush would be almost suicide.

The only main character I'd call bland is Naegi and even so that was by design.

It's amazing how some you can have some fan content like an extremely good fanfiction do way more at this level than a game who obviously, on term of time, money and ressources.

It's generally a lot easier to develop and address character inner thoughts in novel form. In a game, you have to worry about gameplay and how to not make things boring. I read the fanfic you posted and it's good, it also has some problems here and there like some clear OOC moments and a lot of pacing problems.

For Saihara you just have a few parts that may relate to said themes in like, chapters 4 and 5.

And also his whole backstory and personality.

For Akamatsu ? She already has no qualms against lying like she said, but there is also that conversation she has in the elevator before her own trial[...]

I disagree with you here. Truth and Lies as a theme wouldn't fit Kaede that much as her character was much more geared towards the ideas of cooperation, belief and harmony.

Sure, she could lie just fine and like every other DR protagonist, she had no qualms in finding the truth but I think Shuichi's situation as a detective who is afraid of finding the truth makes him more suitable for the Truth and Lies of V3, which eventually expanded to Fiction and Reality.

plus Akamatsu's the only person to not take anything he says at shock value

Did you do her FTE with him? Because she absolutely does not believe in anything that he says and then Oma blames her about how her focus on her own perception of common sense will cause her to get murdered.

But only if she stayed the same as her Chapter 1 self.

Agreed. It's definitely possible that she'd develop but Kodaka has said things about how her like "how she is annoyingly unable to give up hope" or something along those lines so I definitely think that while it's possible that she could change, her core could also remain the same and she'd still make the hope choice in the end.

Akamatsu had barely any time to develop with anyone else, so the entire thing like they keep a promise to her when they didn't knew much from her at all. Even the guy she spent the most time with feels like he can say something but he shouldn't, especially when most of his thoughts about her is when he sees a piano he's all like "A piano... I would like to see Akamatsu-san play it again..." ...Nice goddamn sense of priorities for such a "cherished" person here, little shit.

But despite her short time, I think it's undeniable that she made an impact within the group. And when you consider their natures as fictional characters created solely for the killing game, everything they do there becomes much more meaningful, I think.

But then I see how most people (thankfully not on this thread for most, thank goodness) react to it, just move along and close their minds on what could've been and think this can be enough when this series has barely reached its maximum potential and don't see what new heights we can achieve with some characters like the one we're discussing here.

That depends on what each person defines as "mediocrity". For me V3 was an awesome game, it entertained me and the ending blew me away. Post game content was the best fanservice I could've asked for. For others, like you, it was an underwhelming game.

It's important to recognize that both viewpoints exist and they're largely based on the subjective views each person has so seeing one of them as objective is pointless even if one might disagree with another (and if it wasn't clear enough, I disagree with you on this part).

load more comments (1 reply)
load more comments (3 replies)
Character Discussion #75 - Kokichi Oma (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)

CLICK TO SEE SPOILER
SPOILERtop 200 commentsshow all 260navigate by subscribe
sorted by: best

formatting helpcontent policy
save

-see the well-thought-out essays about every aspect of kokichi's complex character

-realize you have nothing to add

uh ... he's cute lol

We can all at least generally agree with that.

True that. He's gotta be the first "Creepy Cute" Danganronpa character ever conceived, it seems.

If we're talking creepy cute, I'd say Saionji fits the bill... But Ouma definitely takes it to the next level

Not so sure... I never saw her as the least bit creepy... she's just one of those "nasty adorable" brats that I tend to jokingly refer to as "sass queens". Same with Monokuma, basically.

Komaeda already was that to some people though.

Ain't nothing cute about a boy who can twist his expression into the one on THAT sprite

You're right, it's handsome!

What?! You mean you don't find this adorable?! You monster! D:

Slightly terrified about scrolling down beyond this tbh

because of the discourse?

Kaede and Shuichi discussions became a bit toxic. This one wasn't quite as bad though.

i love the fact that someone who got poisoned had the less toxic discussion.

Squashed grapes makes everything better.

and you still got the most upvotes, kudos

Kokichi sure is a package. Being an antagonistic force on top of a comic relief and a genuinely intelligent and fascinating character is rare enough that many are drawn to him naturally. Initially, he kept my attention simply due to being perceptive and extremely entertaining during both daily life segments and trials, but seeing him slowly bloom in relevance was a treat to witness.

Using lying as a weapon and a shield, he enables himself to say the harshest truths people deny existing. The parallel presented by a self-proclaimed liar earning the cast's distrust faster than those actually lying surely drives the theme of 'believing what one wants to believe' home. Kokichi is so intrinsically thematically relevant and supplements the themes of V3 simply by existing that it's hard to see the game exist without him.

I'd rather not touch where he was lying or not much, since even what we know about him is enough to see that despite his attempts to hide behind his supremely evil and totally villainous facade, he often lets his authenticity slip through. I've always seen him as an ambitious tactician who finds intellectually stimulating battles to be challenging but despite using his observational and intellectual tools, he is still capable of empathy and emotion. Whether it's his outbursts when seeing a dead body or realising Himiko is still bottled up or his 'fake' tears for Gonta, he's no unfeeling husk. The biggest stride is his conscience, where he knows what he does is morally questionable, but it's a small sacrifice to make in the face of doing something as opposed to nothing.

Which ties in perfectly with why he's memorable in general; Kokichi's main drive and the last thoughts on his mind are 'I wasn't boring, was I?' Similar to Kaito and Kaede, he seems to dislike inactivity and would prefer trying instead of simply accepting the situation. His highlight case, V3-5, has incurred a fair share of praise and criticism and I understand both sides enough to say that, in the end, it was simply Kokichi's genuine attempt to outwit the mastermind. From what information he collected and inferred over the course of the game, he put it all to use in his one big plan and it was fascinating simply because this level of ambition and valour is enough to allure me to a character.

Kokichi seems to be always trying to embody the 'Evil is Cool' trope; often poking fun at goody-two shoes characters for being boring and predictable while revelling in his mysterious, completely unguessable villainous aura. Villains in media add a lot of flair, presenting an antithesis, sometimes being the conflict entirely. Kokichi adores it enough that his entire lab has the cheesy secret villain lair aesthetic with even a batmobile thrown in there. And that was when my opinion of him solidified; as he was anything but a 'villain' himself.

With all of that said, Kokichi surely wasn't boring; not to me. He was the complete opposite of that word and that's all I can ask from a character, really.

Ha! It's really funny seeing how positive your comment is while the rest of the comments have a huge mix of upvotes and downvotes!

Anyways this was a great post and I'm glad you mentioned Kokichi's tendency to slip us and show genuine empathy for others.

Haha, yeah, I kind of kept it short and simple which might have clicked with people, I don't know. But thank you; despite his morally unforgivable actions, he does seem to understand emotions (better than, say, Kirumi) but given how they conflict with his goals, I get why he chose the latter.

Totally agree with you on that. I also want to add that whenever Kokichi does show emotion or let his facade down for a bit, he immediately amplifies his villainous persona to 11. How does Kokichi try to get everyone to watch each other's videos, where watching them would reveal Kokichi's background and hatred for killing? By manipulating Gonta into kidnapping the other students and having them endure bugs for a couple hours while Kokichi tries to retrieve everyone's motive videos. How does Kokichi react when he starts to cry in front of everyone over Gonta's execution? By mocking his death and saying that he only did it for the sake of enjoying the deaths of others.

Weeby Newz pointed that fact out in her analysis video and I think it ties in really well with how Kokichi is trying to act all cool and sinister, but is dragged down by his own morals.

And I agree with you on Kirumi. While Kokichi was selfish and didn't place much value in the other student's lives, Kirumi thought way, way less of the others and treated them as nothing more than meat shields.

Agreed completely. It really all comes back to his own needs to be entertaining, unique and memorable. Will he react to every situation at hand in the most boring, predictable fashion? Nah, he'll throw a tantrum, mix in a few tears and then spew rational remarks like 'everyone dies lol'. For most people, the emotions they show are what they feel, naturally, but Kokichi, someone who can cry at beck and call, has a lopsided emotional disposition as I see it. And it's understandable why the others would berate him as talking about Kaede's death as if it was nothing and reminding everyone is in a killing game is a truth everyone does know, but never wants to hear and it makes him come across as incredibly insensitive even when he's able to understand others to a degree.

And yeah, Kirumi is even more inept but even when I do think she was slightly hesitant about her final decision to run leaving everyone behind, she's easily one of the most detached and apathetic members of the cast; which is ironic as her job is all about caring for others but she places no value in those sentiments, haha.

Pretty much this. I remember posting something like this in my Kaito discussion that Kokichi's tears to discovering the bodies was genuine sadness. However, he really overplays that sadness since no one will believe him anyways as he is shown to cry crocodile tears on multiple occasions.

Your comments about the cast chewing out Kokichi for warning everyone about the costs of trust and cooperation at the beginning of Chapter 2 made me realize Kokichi was not entirely in the wrong to what he said and that how the other characters treated him as being soulless(and in Kaito's case threatening to punch him) was a bit harsh. I only mention this because Kokichi calls out the rest of the characters for trying to defend Gonta from being bullied only for him to point out that they have treated Kokichi like shit for the entire game.

You're actually right about Kirumi! Haha! Despite her stance on serving her fellow students, she places little care for them.

he is still capable of empathy and emotion... no unfeeling husk.

Even if we can't trust his actions or outbursts I think the proof of this is his motive video. Even if the video was fiction, Team Danganronpa (in-verse) would not give him a backstory that totally contradicts the personality they wrote for him. It'd also be pointless to give him a motive that relies on emotional attachment to other people if they didn't give him the ability to feel that.

This is a very good wall of text. Thank you Avocado Flair Man.

Avocado Flair Man.

Of all the nicknames I've been given in my life, this is definitely my favourite. Thank you as well.

Everybody feel a way about K but at least y'all feel something

Thanks for the write-up. I definitely find Kokichi to be one of the series' more interesting characters, and he's the *only* one I significantly changed my opinion on (I found him obnoxious and tiring initially, but he really grew on me in chapters 4 & 5).

[S]I haven't been closely following what's actually going on inside these discussions, but there seems to be a growing amount of discourse in here. Remember to mind yourself, be courteous, and think whether a conversation is worth continuing.

I really don't understand why people here makes their point by making unecessaraly 10,000+ word essays, it just makes it tiresome to read what are their thoughts on character X and i end up only reading like one or maybe 2 comments at most.

Also, when the all of the V3 cast are covered, what's going to happen with these weekly discussions?

It just sort of happens that way. I can only speak for myself of course, but I like to look at what works and what doesn't work about different characters to be able to put into words why I like or dislike them. I usually just wait a bit for people to post a bit more before discussing more with people, though I don't really do that as much now compared to the really early days of weekly discussion because the community has really shifted.

/u/korrinx
 as an idea, when we finish the character discussion, we could maybe a do a weekly case discussion and talk about the mysteries in the series as opposed to the characters.

a case/chapter discussion series could be fun, if everyone isn't totally burnt out and/or dead at the end of the v3 characters. i remember a series like that seemed to be starting a while back but then petered out at 1-3, i guess because there was no constructive way to improve upon such a notoriously well-written mystery.

Nah. These discussions are just becoming toxic. No more after the character discussions IMO.

Yeah, pretty stumped on that one. :P

I'm not married to the idea, but it is a thought if people still wanted to have discussions. I think a lot of it would be the same points coming up again and again, particularly with how evidence can be handled a lot of the time.

They can also start over again, since some of us (ie me) weren't around to express our opinions on the characters from the early games back then.

load more comments (1 reply)
load more comments (2 replies)

I try to limit mine to a single comment out of courtesy (thus limiting myself to 10,000 characters at most), but V3 in particular has a lot to unpack about most of the cast, and we just happened to get 3 of the most divisive characters in sequence, so that might be giving a sense that everyone's doing it when it's more about the characters themselves. It should be a bit calmer next week with Kirumi.

That awkward moment when the most calming character is the one who murdered a suicidal boy by drowning him

yeah, i don't actually know if i could go over 10,000 words on any one danganronpa character. some of the meatier characters, i could go for a while (i've prepared some shit for the weeks to come and i had a surprising amount to say about angie of all people), but i don't know if there's any dr character substantial enough for me to break the threshold.

Some people are just more wordy, I've seen plenty of people who could write ten pages about essentially nothing. These characters just tend to draw a lot of thoughts and feelings out of a lot of people, so even I, who normally writes fairly concisely, can end up pushing the bounds...

Also, 10,000 words is indeed ludicrous, though I assume it's an intentional exaggeration since reddit counts characters instead of words. If we were actually counting words, even the longest of these analyses probably wouldn't reach that threshold (I mean, even if every word was two characters long you'd end up having to entirely fill 3 comments to reach 10,000, even just accounting for spaces).

oh! i meant 10,000 characters, sorry. my b. i don't think i could top 10,000 characters, is what i meant to say. not being obtuse on purpose, i just come by it naturally i guess.

It would be quite a feat to reach 10,000. My Kaede discussion, which took up three parts, was only above 3,000 words.

load more comments (2 replies)

I knew this wouldn't be good when I came and yet, I'm here anyway.

Thank you

When I think of Kokichi Oma I think of one word; cunning.

He has this kind of "hate to love" air around him since he's constantly getting on the group's nerves whilst also proving to be a valuable asset to them. He's definitely one of the more useful characters for the class trials even if his method of helping out is far from useful.

His habit for constantly spouting lies can easily rub people the wrong way, in-game and out of it. Many characters just started writing off everything he says as a lie and disregarding it immediately, but I've always interpreted this as a test. Kokichi is intelligent and arrogant. If he's going to work with anybody (as equals as opposed to pawns) he doesn't want to hinder himself so they can keep pace. He needs them to be as willing and able to cut through the BS as he is. He isn't willing to work with those that aren't willing to sift through his lies. Those that want the simple explanations, the easy answers and interpretations simply aren't worth troubling himself with. In short, lying is usually Kokichi's way of conveying important information to the people he wants to work with, directly the noses of all the simpletons he wants nothing to do with.

There's no debate about how he was tailor made with V3's themes in mind (we can debate about whether or not the themes were great enough to warrant a character design like this, but there's no denying that that's what they were going for.) And honestly, for the most part, I think they did a good job. Perhaps...too good. I understand entirely where people are coming from when they say his gimmick gets repetitive. When the general plot of your game already conveys how "the truth hurts" acceptably throughout the narrative, it can come across as a bit redundant to have Kokichi breakdown a trial just to give a lecture to the same effect (especially since no one in game seems to really engage with him on this point, so it's pretty one-sided.)

But overall when the game does stop to provide motivation for his lies (pretending to be the chapter 3 killer and the Killing Game Busters,) you can see where the merit is even if the morality is still highly contentious.

I guess whilst we're talking about morality, now is a good time to talk about chapter 5. I have mixed feelings about this one. The explanation behind the remote control addresses my concerns about Kokichi's role in the previous chapter (if it's really crucial for Kokichi to pose as the mastermind with the Exisals, then I guess Miu really did have to die to make that happen.) And I can understand how his final plan could damage Monokuma's credibility enough to stop future killing games (with the knowledge he had, anyway.) But it's hard to be satisfied with the rest of his actions.

I'm still lost as to what the point of posing as the mastermind or kidnapping Kaito really were; they just don't entirely compliment the different motivations the game hints at. He seemed to make no preparations to counter the Mastermind's retaliation of his actions and kidnapping Kaito just served to give the group an extra motivation to fight against him. And the final semi-improvised plan can stop future killing games, but does nothing to save those trapped in the current one. Although maybe that's why this plan involves somebody sacrificing themselves; if it doesn't save the current group, it doesn't matter that someone has to die first, does it?

I've long made the comparisons between him and Lelouch Lamperouge from Code Geass because Ultimate Chess Master really is a more fitting talent for him. The intelligence, the manipulation, lulling opponents into a false sense of security, the gamer logic, a cold detachment to the suffering of others, a willingness to sacrifice anyone to meet his goals. Even his scarf has a chess/checker board design!

And that's honestly that's my best interpretation of what his ultimate goal really was; to win, at any means necessary. If he can stop Monokuma, the Mastermind and the killing game system as a whole, he wins, even if he and everyone else in V3 has to die to do it.

And that's more than good enough for a rival character. They're not antagonists, they should want the same thing as our protagonist but with much more divisive methods of doing it, neither entirely acceptable or deplorable. The group's reaction to Kaito's explanation post Chapter 5 trial is kind of what salvages it for me. The group aren't confident enough to surely say he lied to Kaito, but they can't ignore everything else he's done in order to say it's the truth either. It's ambiguous and it should be, taking a hard stance on whether he was noble or wicked would be a disservice to the character.

Speaking of disservices to the character, I really can't agree with the argument that we should feel more sympathy for Kokichi throughout the game. If you want to, go for it, but for me, the situations were most people give him sympathy come across as calculated risks set up by Kokichi himself.

The end of chapter 2 is the prime example; he ousts Maki is the Ultimate Assassin and she strangles him. The key thing to remember here, is that he did it in plain sight of a row of witnesses. Maki can't kill him now, not without becoming the prime suspect. He's effectively taken the most dangerous person amongst them and given himself immunity from them. This coupled with the constant lying is why I describe him as cunning; he puts himself at a disadvantage short-term to reap the long-term benefits. It's disgustingly brilliant.

Also Derek Stephen Prince is the MVP of the English localisation of the game. He nailed every aspect of Kokichi's character flawlessly; the sinister villain, the snarky wise-ass, the snivelling coward, the gleeful child. I can't stop gushing over how great this performance was at almost single-handedly stealing every scene Kokichi was in.

And I guess I should address the Nagito comparisons since I know we're going to be seeing them a lot in this thread. The two have a great many similarities, to the point where chapter 5 really does kind of suffer from the immediate comparison although I'd argue that it still manages to hold up under scrutiny as its own case. There is one key aspect that separates these two; how they view themselves. Kokichi is arrogant, Nagito is self-loathing. Kokichi wants to be in charge, Nagito wants to be a springboard for someone else's hope. I'd argue that whilst they both have conviction in their ideals, it compliments arrogance better.

Overall, Kokichi's charisma made him entertaining whilst his principles made him infuriating. I absolutely think they knocked it out of the park with this one.

There is one key aspect that separates these two; how they view themselves. Kokichi is arrogant, Nagito is self-loathing. Kokichi wants to be in charge, Nagito wants to be a springboard for someone else's hope. I'd argue that whilst they both have conviction in their ideals, it compliments arrogance better.

i've always taken nagito as both self-loathing and arrogant, in the way narcissists both hate and love themselves. i guess the distinction that i'd draw is in his rhetoric versus his actions. his rhetoric is pure self-loathing, but he also carries out these very manipulative plans to impose his own morality on the group at the cost of their lives, which strikes me as incredibly arrogant. it's a mixture of the two things.

i think the nagito and kokichi comparisons are born out by their being the same general type of villain with very similarly paced arcs, especially toward the ends of their lives. like they're both quite different from, say, a byakuya or an angie, but very close to one another. i think if they didn't vibe so close, i would have more patience for kokichi in general. as it is, not only am i frustrated by a lot of aspects of the character, but he just strikes me as nagito with the hems taken in a bit.

the voice work is great, though, i grant you.

I've never really heard of a narcissist that hates himself, but I'll take your word for it. I think Nagito has strong conviction in his idea of Hope and Despair and attempts to force that on others, but not out of arrogance. I view it more akin to Angie's relationship as Atua; she sees herself as nothing more than an agent for the deity as Nagito sees himself as an agent for the principles. But that's just me.

To chime in here, I see Nagito as arrogant mainly because of how he treats those without talents as beneath him. Maybe it's more accurate to call him elitist? In the later parts of case 4, he distances himself from everyone out of anger but he seems to double down on the sneers and insults towards Hajime because he has no talent (the other survivors when this is brought up don't even bat an eyelid at this reveal and tell Hajime not to worry about it).

My memory is foggy because I try to forget that mess existed, but I feel like there's a DR3 moment where Nagito shows disdain for the talentless too? Either way it's a hypocritical and ugly trait he hides behind his friendly mask, and one that seems to get overlooked a lot too.

Komaeda's definitely an elitist, though he doesn't see people with talent as below him. He sees himself on the same level as them, which definitely isn't a compliment by any means, but it's something he says to Hinata at the beginning of their conversation at the Monokuma Rock, and in the TDP events where he's like "i don't dislike you i just thought we were similar". It's more like...he doesn't like when people without talent "overstep their boundaries" or some BS like that. Remove that, and he's pretty snarky about it, but not as malicious as in Chapter 4, where Hinata was also SHSL Despair.

Oh right this isn't a Komaeda character discussion. Uhhhhhhh blah blah ouma blah blah.

In UDG, his likes and dislikes add to this as well, to say nothing of his big speech at the start of DR 2 ch. 2 where he says that talentless people are all worthless trash and should just become tools for people worth more than them.

i think the nagito and kokichi comparisons are born out by their being the same general type of villain with very similarly paced arcs, especially toward the ends of their lives. like they're both quite different from, say, a byakuya or an angie, but very close to one another. i think if they didn't vibe so close, i would have more patience for kokichi in general. as it is, not only am i frustrated by a lot of aspects of the character, but he just strikes me as nagito with the hems taken in a bit.

While the two characters are similar in the fact that they both assume the role of the rival and create a complicated plan in Chapter 5, there are plenty of key difference between how the characters are written.

I think this post does a great job at explaining that: https://www.google.com/amp/oumakokichi.tumblr.com/post/162380950700/whats-your-opinion-on-the-ouma-is-komaeda-20/amp

EDIT: This post goes even further in depth on their personalities, relationships with the cast, mentality, and their arc over the game: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fDm_eoZwY3ziz6WGm4JzvRG-_lngjFr8GF0uHaEE7KY/mobilebasic

i don't know if i buy into the first link (or the second, which is quite well-written but fairly long so i admit i skimmed it), simply because it's premised upon the idea that kokichi is a well-meaning actor with unconventional methods, and that he despises killing. and like i say downthread, i don't really buy it. buddy has a pretty serious body count. i've never seen an 'oma hates killing' analysis that i feel adequately accounts for the fuckton of unnecessary blood he has on his hands, which seems like a pretty serious flaw in that take.

Well, I guess it will be hard to change your mind then on this matter. I do admit that Kokichi isn't sympathetic and placed his life way above others and I can understand why that would put people off. The reason as to why I found it compelling was seeing someone who, at the beginning of the game, was a nice(if somewhat childish and immature) boy slowly become more and more sociopathic and malicious as a result of his own paranoia.

update: i finished reading the second link just because the voice of the writing grabbed me; i'm meh on the analysis of oma but i think they nailed komaeda so hey. thanks for the read.

You're....welcome?

In all seriousness, props on managing to finish that mountain of text!

i'm getting softer on nagito in my old age. it's fucked. used to be all i did was spit venom about him, now i'm like... a little nostalgic for his crazy ass? i chalk it up to despair disease.

Well who knows? You might just warm up to Kokichi in the future!

I wasn't planning on actually writing this post, but I got to thinking about how V3 exists as an in-universe verses out of universe story and then I had some thoughts. I can't get down all my thoughts on a character in a post, but I do want to focus on that one aspect.

Kokichi's often treated as a pretty inscrutable character, partially because of the ambiguity that's given to almost all of the V3 characters, but I'm not sure he's actually that complicated. He could be--lot of characters in Danganronpa can be interpreted in several ways, but I think there are a few easy explanations of his character.

Kokichi's mostly difficult to get a hold of due to his shift of personality and values throughout V3 (from kinda mild jerk who messed with you a little but was genuinely helpful to outright villain to oh-I-was-planning-that-all-along), but I think it's easiest to interpret as something that isn't entirely an act, like he said it was, nor a slow reveal of his real personality, but a genuine breakdown because the killing game legitimately got to him and he mentally backed himself into a corner, forced himself to take actions that were against his own moral code in order to ensure his own survival, and then came up with a plan that would both eliminate himself and save everyone else. He sure would like to seem like he's a bit more complicated than he is--the guy is very insistent on controlling and directing his own narrative, and portraying himself as a certain type of character (and probably started doing so the moment he realized he was in a reality show), but I think he mostly is what he looked like at the beginning, a scared little control freak who decides that playing the villain is the best way to get through the game and who's lack of trust and fear of everyone around him got him killed. The most interesting thing about Kokichi, I think, is that he tries to resist the narrative he was put in. He tries to resist the narrative, to swing the story in a different direction than it was supposed to be written, and he fails. He's smart, and he's capable, and he fails, so badly, and dies completely alone, in a way none of the antagonists in the series had before.

V3 is, in universe, a story (whether someone believes Tsumugi at the end or not, it's difficult to say that V3 isn't at least framed as a narrative that was written out) and, in universe, Kokichi's a minor villain, meant to disrupt the proceedings and the class trial, to be mean and petty to those he dislikes (like Miu, and Kiibo, and Maki--Kokichi punches down), but also meant to act as a sort of ally, sort of antagonist to the protagonist, who's slightly ahead of him in the trials. A more villainous form of Kyoko, or a less plot-significant form of Nagito. He's terrified at the beginning, though insistent that he enjoys the game that's around him, and resistant to all forms of control, especially Kaede's particular brand of optimism. This resistance, this desire to control his own life, his own particular brand of chaotic rebellion and individualism is probably why he reacted just so badly to finding out he was a character in a story. It's a bit unclear when exactly he figured it out--sometime before the end of chapter 2, where he makes a pretty direct reference to that fact, but probably not during chapter one, where he seemed actually pretty consistently upset and worried about the situation he was in. Kokichi spends the entirety of chapters 2 and 3 trying to make certain no one dies, and most especially, he doesn't die until chapter 4, when he realizes that someone else is trying to kill him. Kokichi's number one priority in the first several chapters is his own sense of self-preservation (he resembles Celeste in a lot more ways than making up stories about their past, a fixation on fiction and games, and lying), which is strange for a character who ultimately ended up killing himself. But Kokichi's rebellion against the killing game didn't make him swing more heroic. It made him more villainous. The writers wrote him with a code against killing? He gets Miu killed. The writers wrote him with a heavy desire to live? He makes a plan to get himself killed. Trust no one? He puts his plans in the hands of his rival. He obstructs and hides and trusts no one because of a fervent desire to win, to succeed, to screw over the people who put him in this situation where there was no chance to win, where his actions and his memories and his personality where controlled by an outside force.

His own desire to screw over the narrative does nothing but screw him over in the end. He loses. He fails. And I think that's kind of great.

of all the interpretations that give kokichi and his self-concept some kind of credibility (which my own take doesn't), i like this one the best, because it allows him the latitude to be a huge fucking hypocrite. i feel like the most common take that interprets kokichi as other-than-he-seems is one that valorizes his stated stance against the killing game as if he's behaved in a way consistent with that moral code. i like that your version allows for the possibility that he holds those morals but completely fucked up in implementing them, given that he basically ended up committing suicide on a huge pile of dead bodies of his own creation.

I'd say it's less a pile of dead bodies and more...two. Which is still far too many. Seriously though, the plot of V3 is such a lose-lose for everyone involved, even more than the first two games, that I'm not sure what anyone could have done to fix the situation. Of course, a more ideal situation for everyone would be if Kokichi told everyone else what he learned and tried to get them all to work together, but I think that would have been even more outside his abilities than what he ended up doing. All victims in these games got there for a reason.

I'm so glad you bring up hypocrisy though! Everyone in V3 is such a massive hypocrite and I kinda love that. I think it makes sense given that the main theme of the game is lying and fiction. I think my particular interpretation makes Kokichi even more hypocritical than the game does though, because with all the anger about being controlled and the rage against the people watching and being forced into a horrible game outside his control his last act is...writing a script for someone to follow and getting himself killed.

i chuck kaito on the pile. three is nothing to sniff at, considering most people who define themselves by their opposition to murder hold tight at a healthy 'zero.'

and yeah, i like your last point here. very astute.

To some people, and most historians, history is the story of humankind and its advances over thousands of years. To me, it is the story of the events leading up to the creation Kokichi Ouma, the greatest fictional character ever written.

Now, you might think that me saying that is an exaggeration, because there's no way I could've read every story to know that. Well, you have no way of knowing I'm not an immortal time traveler so shut up. Just like the existence of my superpowers, Kokichi is a character who is heavily up to interpretation. But that's just why he's so great! Every facet of his character is up for debate; for example, I can say Kokichi is an alien from Mars, and of course you'll say that's ridiculous, but you can't actually prove me wrong, can you?

No, because Kokichi is all about introspection. Finding a deeper meaning in life. Transcending from our mortal plane to realise that having a consistent backstory and characterization is irrelevant, because it's all a lie at the end of the day. You might think this is where I say: "This was all a shitpost, not meant to be taken seriously, I mean that should be obvious but still. My actual opinion on Kokichi is that he's an interesting character concept but with a butchered execution." But no, this is my true opinion on Kokichi Ouma, the greatest character ever, and you can't prove u/Skygd
 paid me to write this, because it was all cash.

Oh boy! I finally get to talk about my favorite character in the series. Never has a character in this franchise been so entertaining and intricate as Kokichi Oma.

There is a lot to talk about Kokichi, and I could go on and on about his mindset and his actions throughout the game and what his intentions are behind them. However, I am going to keep things short and simply explain why I found Kokichi so special. I guess what makes his character so enjoyable in my eyes is that I feel that the writers specifically made this character for me to enjoy him. What I mean by that is that he has all the qualities I love in a Danganronpa character.

For starters, he easily has the best personality in the entire series and is definitely the best comic relief as well. The reason why I found him better than more comedic characters like Gundham and Miu in terms of humor is that I share the same sense of humor as he does. I am a generally jokeful person in real life and Kokichi's jokes throughout the game were right up my alley in terms of being witty yet childish. Because of this, I laughed at almost every snarky or immature thing he said. It also helps that he has a stellar dynamic with the rest of the cast. While the rest of the characters, besides Gonta, react to Kokichi in the same way, the way he teases the others is unique and has their own sense of flair and charm to it which is a great aspect to have for any character.

The next aspect I love about him, and is something that I have a huge bias for, is his role as the rival. Togami and Nagito were my favorite characters from their respective games and a huge reason for that was their presence in the game and how they stirred up shit for the rest of the students. While Togami was fairly weak when it came to this aspect as he never did much in the way of intimidation outside of Chapter 2, I feel that the writers had continually improved on making the rival character more of a threat and enemy from game to game. I always looked forward to when Kokichi was on screen because he would almost always start up conflict or confusion with the others which made the story feel way more interesting. V3 would have been a whole lot worse had they removed Kokichi from the game because his presence made the game feel far more engaging and invigorating to me after Kaede died.

Finally what made him stand out from the rest was the mystery surrounding his character and the joy I got from replaying the game and analyzing his words and actions. V3 is the first Danganronpa game where I actually sat down and paid close attention to the story. With the others, I was still focused on what was happening, but by the end of the game and seeing others people's comments on character or events, I felt that I missed a lot of important details. So when I started V3, I decided that I was going to play though the game seriously so that I can get the best understanding and grasp of the characters. And when I finished the game, I replayed it again later to closely inspect any details I may have missed. And I had a fun time doing that! Little details like Tenko's compassion to boys or Gonta's arc of his mentality dwindling due to the other character's treatment of him were really enlightening and helped me know their character a lot better. I'm getting a bit off topic, but I will say that there was no character more exciting to to explore again throughout the game than Kokichi. His character is shrouded in mystery and I'm sure that there are still little things about his character or mindset that I still don't know about in the game. And that feeling of trying to uncover the mystery behind him is one of the best experiences I ever had with the series. Having a character wrapped up in lies makes me suspicious of what his true intentions are or what he's trying to accomplish in some of the stunts he pulls. The whole idea of having the antagonist being the representation of a lie was something I found to be interesting. Kokichi was someone who lied to everyone around him including himself, which led to his own demise was a really intriguing concept and I liked how the writers tied that aspect of him to the themes of the game.

Kokichi is a fantastic comic relief, rival, and character. I remember in an interview with Kodaka where he commented on Kokichi where he said that he was the perfect character for Danganronpa and I feel like that couldn't be any more true.

EDIT: I also want to add that Derek Stephen Prince had easily the best performance in the English version of the game. Any big scene involving Kokichi whether it is sinister, playful, or cowardly, he knocked it out of the park and stole the show. I was impressed with how well Prince managed to capture spirit and energy of Kokichi's character.

kinda surprised to see people who claim he's one of the objectively best characters in the series getting downvoted. back in like the first few months after the english release, this sub was all over the little fucker. like, absolute "ouma is the best character kodaka ever created" tier stuff from so many people every day. nowadays, people are being more contrarian.

anyway, i like the dude. not nearly as much as i liked komaeda, but i still like him. while this is more subjective, i find his personality entertaining, lots of his dynamics with the other characters are pretty great and interesting, his rivalry with momota was the good kush, and i overall thought the whole "guy who seems like literal devil spawn turns out to not be that bad" thing was done well. he's extremely cynical, not to mention arrogant, and won't let anyone get especially close to him during the game, and by doing this he sort of clouds himself in layers upon layers of this false persona. it's kind of like a method of self-protection in a bad situation. now, i think this would have been stronger if we had more of a backstory for him than "kid who goes around playing pranks on people with a bunch of juggalos," but i digress. i'm not talking "he had an abusive twin who raped him and fed him bugs" level shit, but something that would justify the lengths he was willing to go to cover himself. so, this doesn't work out for him, and he basically digs himself into a hole where all odds are against him. and so, in his final scene with momota, he finally comes out with it. i think that's really strong way to show who he really is. i mean, it's not like it came out of nowhere. there were tons of moments where the game drops little hints in his dialogue that he's not what he makes himself out to be, to the point where i'm surprised that people still don't get it. i don't think he's a particularly hard to understand character at all. sure, there's a level of mystery around him, and i think the game sort of overblows it at points given ouma's disposition kind of exacerbates it, but overall, i think he's one of the most solidly written characters in the game.

only thing is i wish his dynamic with saihara was done better. like not to be like "they wanted to make a nod to komahina" but they wanted to make a nod to komahina. yeah yeah i know they're not the same thiiiiiing ouma and komaeda are DIFFERENT bitch i get it we ALL get it stop complaining, but ouma's attachment to saihara is pretty sudden, and doesn't come off that meaningful. if they had cut the shit about him wanting to "get the attention of someone he likes" it would be better, because momota and ouma have an established dynamic at that point, so it's not like talking to saihara- momota's buddy- would come entirely out of the left field, and i'll be real, it's not like his one-sided crush on saihara is that big of a deal anyway since it's barely relevant, but idk man, their dynamic is just really paper thin, and while i think momota/ouma makes a great rivalry, might as well give more of a rival to the actual protagonist than the self-proclaimed one amiright.

kid who goes around playing pranks on people with a bunch of juggalos

has anyone ever photoshopped his panta into paygo because there's something to this

First I thought he was just a little annoying.

Then after Chapter 4 I hated him. Though I never really believed him when he said he was the mastermind. Still, I was secretly hoping he was the victim under the press.

And then the game goes and tries to make him at least somewhat noble in his last moments, and posthumously. That doesn't excuse anything, Gonta still died violently for him.

At the very least, though, he was an interesting person. And with his aversion to boredom, maybe that's what he would've wanted all along.

I kind of like how he starts off as something of a class clown, but as the game goes on, he gets more and more serious with his villain persona.

So now I just kind of love-to-hate him. He kind of exists in that zone where fans can portray him in any way and I'd still buy it as in-character.

Also one of my gripes with the V3-6 reveal is that it meant his clown organization didn't exist. It was a cool concept, darn it.

I think Kokichi is super annoying. Didn't really find him entertaining at all, I was wishing for someone to tape his mouth shut by chapter 3. He talks way too much.

Five words: I do not like him.

​My view on Ouma is surprisingly "straightforward" (ok not that much). I'm not that crazy around him unlike the majority of the fanbase (which includes his, of course), but I did enjoy the guy a lot over the course of the game even with his shortcomings.

Something I don't see often but could actually answer most problems that are with the character (in general) is how he was presented in the first place, as in, the advertising around him worked as such :

He is the liar character, which was put in his profile and it was clearly insisted as it was a really central thing on him mostly,

He's stuck in a game, whatever it is volontary or not, that just follows the same patterns as the ones from the former games, so the fact that his lies aren't doing anything effective because of that unfortunately makes them useless.

Basically, I didn't except with the promo materials right away what role he would fit, but right after the game released in Japan, he went from "possibly important character" (also from attention he got in... varied ways) to the role I was sure he was going to get. Now, I know how it feels frustrating to say that he's the new "Komaeda" when they are fundamently different characters on almost every term... with the exception of the rival position, their weird attraction to the main character (except here it doesn't even make any sense, it's just appealing to fujos or something wished that was called out in-game), and how Chapter 5 just made the exact same plan as the one in SDR2 because foooooormulaaaaaa ofc. That said, he gets some takes from other former characters, like I could say, Togami (how he sees it as a game even if toges actually meant that), Celes (plays of different personas), Junko, and also Kirigiri for the whole "I'll investigate on my own the truth behind the school". Special mention on that unlike the actual detective of the cast, Ouma wasn't one but actually bothered to check on things and investigate.

Now, I don't mind him being a little shit and I can be quite fond of those characters, especially since he's called out on it, although I can understand how people don't like that dynamic. I, myself, think that it would've been better if other people filled a better dynamic with Ouma than what ended up. With Iruma, it felt good, with Momota it had a good rivalry, the whole "Be my mom Tojo-san" was hilarious. With others ? Ki-Bo is basically the same thing over and over, Gonta is just tragedy narrative tool in the chapter he's scripted to die in, Saihara is just LOL THEMATIC REPRESENTATION !! TRUTH VS LIES VS FIKUSHION VS REALITY ARE DEEP (not) and the rest is a snorefest. Basically others characters who could've made for a good dynamic either dies too early or there it's the Void (thinking to Akamatsu, Amami, Shinguuji, or others). I wouldn't mind his thing about lying that much since even while saying "USO DA YO" probably... a little too much, I compliment at least that there were (from what I recall) some varieties in the stories he used to fuck with everyone. (unlike a certain other rival who was fond of stepping stones... that made him obnoxious to deal with.)

But again, unlike his predecessor, they don't manage in V3 to compliment Ouma's use that much since everything is the same, so using LIES to try and remain complex about things is useless when everything stays the same as previous games, so any attempt to surprise or take the player is automatically rendered null (not speaking for everyone of course, some might have not made every connection with the patterns and don't mind that much). However, much like Tenko and other characters in this game, I could still appreciate some moments despite knowing where he goes at the end of the story. I feel it's also particulary due to his voice acting that reaaaaaally helped. However, unlike I feel most people on this thread, I'd congratulate more Hiro Shimono's awesome performance that was top notch and fantastic to hear everytime (like when he treated everyone "BAKAAAAAAAAAA" at the end of V3-4, or the so famous line we all know), while I personally found the VA irritating at worst, for how.. hm.. let's say "heavy" and kinda too much hammering it felt, and not in a good way. If I kept the english voices, I don't think I would've appreciated the characters that much.

A good thing is that while in the first half he is mostly here, they make a better pacing out of the second half of the game and that's where his 'arc' of sorts takes off to lead to his oh-so-devilish master plan in the fifth chapter. Of course, meanwhile they have to follow the necessary steps in every chapter, like the obligatory asshole character making a speech about trust in chp 2, or being a focus with knowing information and having a sort of face-off in chap 4, while being a major focus in chp 5 and like the last game, he just has to be the victim.

Another thing I like is the kind of "lie detector" that they make of him in Chp 1 when Akamatsu lies, which can make for good things later in the game, so I thought, but when we move on from protagonists, it becomes quickly apparent who's written with writor's bias, even Ouma is weak against the lies told by the protagonist and while he notices them he just... let it slide because of course we couldn't just have the main character undergo a special treatment like everyone else. Of course.

A point that will surely get me shot in the face, but I have to say it, the guy is smart, that's for sure, but I do think they oversell him waaay too much that in the end on his intelligence, it either becomes contrived, or some people aren't even satisfied of those contrived things that they just take almost everything at face value and makes some weird-ass theories that feel like IT'S SOMETHING DEEP TO UNCOVER BEHIND THE GENIUS THAT IS KODAKA LIKE HE'S LIKE ONE OF THOSE GRAND MYSTERY WRITERS or something, when it's barely even worth the time to think about (things like Ouma didn't get splattered all over the place, or anything that just gets pulled out of thin air because of a line that could just be a lie or not but that's just an excuse of endless pointless debate). Regardless, we have a moment in Chapter 2 where he knows of the alibi of the main suspect, but doesn't bother to read the cause of death in the Monokuma File and you have to make him know that. Chapter 4 has him actually just knowing everything that happened and is just sending Gonta to his death when you could make something better if he wasn't just completely onto the plan and make it a better clash against Momota (the case still sucked but at least that was an Ouma who was fun to hear, even with the situation pointless). I already made a rant on why I think Chapter 5 is underwhelming and just full of contrivances when you can just make a voice changer coming out of nowhere, a 300-pages script that is written in few hours while dying of poison (again, Harukawa showing up wasn't planned - something I prefer, since it shows that despite all his planning, dude has a blindspot in reading people, and the "Fuckup that still tries to do the right thing" is something I do like a lot - and I don't buy that he might've lied to Momota about that : you have the sole reason to not die in vain in front of you, and it's a guy you hate, he also hates you and he hates that you lie to him. You must then be a bit stupid to do the thing that might just not win his cooperation, but that's my personal take on it). Chp 6 has him contribute from the grave with all kinds of hints, but the video is something I do like because of how it allows for good interpretation and asks the player to revisit the game so that you can see from all he says what could be right and what couldn't. Not really executed well when you have him localized to be a dick most of the time (a certain fic at least did that better IMO), but nonetheless a nice touch.

All that said his trolling attitude made him entertaining for my terrible sense of humor, his japanese VA is near perfect, and he was one of the people who, despite how predictable he was, at least thanks to him I ​didn't cry my eyes out of boredom. He prolly had potential to be the best rival, but the way he was handled left much to be desired. Kinda like the rest of the game, hilariously.

weird ass-theories

Bleep-bloop, I'm a bot. This comment was inspired by xkcd#37

good bot

I like Kokichi, he's a good character. Love DSP's performance, has a lot of hilarious lines, and is the teeth of every troll joke you can think off. His lying gimmick is a colossal step up from Celeste, since he's actually a good freaking liar who makes for someone genuinely suspicious, but not predictable. The moment when he pressures Kaede one day just to blame it on others the next day in order to get them to fess up for her sake is a great example of how thoughtfully woven his lies are.

I enjoy his guilty hero arc where he has to do awful things just to get across his positive goals, like trying to screen the motive videos to get the class to understand each other and having to make the painful decision of killing his two best friends, Miu and Gonta, just to start his takeover plan in halting the killing game.

At the end, he's aware that he did awful things and ultimately faced the consequences for it, in which case his sacrifice isn't viewed in a positive light by everyone, as some do interpret him as just being selfish and a total attention seeker who just wants anarchy. Even still, people like Shuichi and Kaito respected his deal to the end and understood the tragedy of what had to go through to ge that far, even if they don't ultimately like him as a person.

Thinking about how it'd feel in Kokichi's shoes, it does feel pretty sad that he had to throw away being a good person to make it happen, but is willing to go through with it anyway, which feels genuinely selfless in it's own way and doesn't come across as pretentious as he never actually draw attention to his philosophy all that much. A huge breath of fresh air compared to something like Nagito's hope-preaching spree. I also love his backstory. It's such a contrasting slap-in-the-face towards the Ultimate Despair motive, it's hilarious.

And there's my opinion on Kokichi. I know it's not much of a giant tower of text, but I'd like to keep it this way. I prefer that I bring my own practical insight on Kokichi's character instead of having to rely on fan theories and philosophies since I find the overall writing of his character to be extremely delicate and best handled with care. I could talk about my thoughts on his general fanbase, but for once I kinda don't wanna be angsty and livid about something so controversial, so let's just leave it at that.

I like Kokichi, he's a good character. Love DSP's performance

It was in that moment that I realized "Derek Stephen Prince" has the same initials as "DarkSyde Phil".

But yeah, great voicework from him, as usual. In fact, I agree with you on just about every point.

I'm not completely positive about his character of course. Emphasis on "like" instead of "love" for his overall character. I just don't feel safe talking negative about him so I just wait for others to do it instead.

I think Kokichi could be better overall, but for the concept Kodaka wanted to work with, I'll give credit where credit's due.

Oh yeah I'm not in love with the guy either, I just think he was interesting.

In the end, though, a memorable character is better than a bland one.

Honestly I would've preferred him to just be an outright villain rather than trying to go "oh he maybe had good intentions all along!!" Even if he did have good intentions, his plan to end the killing game was so ridiculously cruel and arguably worse than the killing game itself that it comes across as laughable to suggest he was maybe a good guy. It just ruins the idea of him being unabashedly evil without actually establishing him as potentially being good.

Also his plan in chapter 5, doing all that with just the goal of "if the mastermind is wrong about who the killer is, the game will end or something i guess" is super dumb. I don't know why nobody addresses that there is no possible way that the game would end from something like that.

I liked Kokichi because he was funny and I liked the antagonistic presence he had, in the way that someone roots for the killer in a slasher fic, but chapter 5 just kinda soured my opinion of him.

Ah yes, everyone's favorite demonic scarf possessing a small boy's body. Where I said the story would have been better without Kaito, I think Kokichi ended up making the whole of the killing game worse for everyone in-universe (well, except maybe the audience) through his chicanery.

But before we get into how that works, I need to explain what I think the "intended narrative" was. Given how the previous games went, I think it's safe to say the final survivor count was meant to be somewhere between 4 and 6. you might be wondering how that works when the rules given in-game say they would go until they hit 2 survivors, but remember that those are just the rules they told the students, and by that count the other games were meant to go until everyone was dead or someone "graduated". Not to mention that one person was meant to get out alive in the first round, so 3 survivors was probably Team Danganronpa's worst case scenario, and they just didn't count on chapter 1 going like it did (since after that even if there was a graduate they would then have the mastermind, the graduate, and the Ch 1 escapist alive). Piano girl being the one to kill when they had a serial killer, an assassin, two punchy dudes, a convicted murderer, a super destructive robot, and a dude who seems intent on making everyone hate him, then said girl refusing to take the first blood perk are some pretty extenuating circumstances.

Based loosely on the previous games, I'd guess that the way it was meant to go is: Chapter 1, someone commits murder and kicks things off, then takes the first blood perk to get out alive. Chapter 2, someone commits murder and gets caught after trying to avoid the motive, showing the futility of trying to dodge it. Chapter 3, they bring one of the 3 dead people back, perhaps a double murder happens but the killer gets caught. Chapter 4, the students learn about humanity's "fall", leading to despair murder because danganronpa, with another successful trial. Around chapter 5 (maybe leaving the possibility for a longer game), the motive this time makes murder less likely. Then Kaito dies of his disease, but since Shuichi's poison cupboard has just been revealed and Kaito's been hiding his illness, everyone assumes it was poison. They either discover the truth or execute an innocent person before the truth is revealed. Either way, the Mastermind is now clearly the blackened (having infected Kaito and being the one to dish out executions), and chapter 6 begins. Chapter 6, they investigate the back rooms and discover the mastermind, mastermind gets executed, and everyone goes home horribly traumatized and wishing this had never happened happily ever after.

But, things got derailed. First, Kaede didn't play her part in chapter 1, meaning the "freebie" didn't happen. In chapter 2, Kokichi subverts the students' popular vote, so that whole "you can't dodge the motive" lesson didn't sink in. Korekiyo (why do all these names start with K? It's a conspiracy I tell ya!) cut off the resurrection in chapter 3, so that's another potential survivor gone. At which point Team DR presumably said "fuck it, these kids clearly want to die".

Then in chapter 4, Kokichi stopped everyone from finding out about the outside until the end, and manipulated things to kill off the only person ready and able to kill him, Miu, sacrificing Gonta to save his own life. In chapter 5, he really kicks things into high gear, hijacking the game using Miu's inventions (which he apparently got her to make before she decided to kill him) and gets everyone to discover the big reveal that the world outside sucks anyway, but also captures Kaito so he can enact his master plan. He stages a murder that even the mastermind shouldn't be able to solve, and it gets solved anyway thanks to Shuichi, so the killing game technically continues despite Team Danganronpa's hand essentially being played and the student population dwindling, bringing things dangerously close to a lame ending. But fate turns in everyone's favor, K1B0's antenna get knocked off and things get into a sort of end game. Things get a bit tense, and Tsumugi almost ruins everything in a bid to save herself, but in the end they manage to work it out so we still end up with hypothetical worst case 3 survivors despite all the bullshit that went wrong.

So... was it worth it? I suppose you might say jerking around the mastermind is its own reward, but could Kokichi have ended the killing game? Well, I'd say probably not. While it is extremely complicated and nuanced, his plan's success seems to hinge on one major assumption, that if Monokuma declared the wrong person to be the killer then he would be forced to permanently end the killing game... Which we know isn't true, because we find that's what happened in chapter 1 and the game doesn't instantly end.

Kokichi had no way of knowing that, so it's not necessarily his fault, but his plan was really doomed from the outset. If they had revealed that Kaito was the killer right after Kokichi had been declared the blackened, more likely either Monokuma would simply declare that everyone had in fact voted wrong and execute the class, letting Kaito graduate and then die of space plague (which would be a terrible ending, but is technically what the rules say), make some sort of exception due to extenuating circumstances, executing the true blackened who had been hiding their identity (bending the rules but not beyond what I would think is the audience's tolerance), or executing nobody and declaring Kokichi's death a suicide (which wouldn't offer a crowd-pleasing execution, but with the only evidence against it being interpretation of whose fault his death was it wouldn't break the rules either).

In any case, it seems unlikely that Kokichi's plan would've stopped the killing game. It is possible that Kokichi was banking on backing Monokuma into a corner where he wouldn't be able to weasel out of executing the class and making a shitty ending for the killing game, but I don't think he's quite that callous nor do I think Monokuma would have actually chosen to kill the class.

Now that that's out of the way, what about Kokichi himself? I don't think he deserves to be called Ultimate Liar despite what some might claim, since someone who is in fact the best at lying would seem like they are always telling the truth, no matter how ludicrous. As they say, if you mix a believable lie with an unbelievable truth, your lie will go untouched as your opponent ruins themselves trying to disprove the truth. However, the game doesn't call him that at any point, so I'm mostly making that remark toward the fans that try to make up talents for people.

He's clearly smart, or at least very good at managing complex chains of information and logic (as you would have to be to keep track of all the things you've said if you lie a lot), but I'm not sure I would call him clever. As I said before, his plan was probably doomed from the outset, and as I haven't said before his patterns of behavior don't seem very smart in the long term. Showing off how easily you can change your outward emotions, mocking the dead, being a general asshole, none of that really offers any benefit and it all makes people dislike you more.

You might argue that it was building up to his big gambit, but I'd argue he picked that sort of gambit because he realized nobody liked or trusted him at that point rather than him planning it from the beginning. It's probably why he made himself the victim instead of Kaito as well, despite Kaito's limited lifespan and general incompetence, Kokichi knew everyone would think HE was the killer after chapter 4. If anything, it feels more like he's a habitual liar, and that he literally can't help but lie about some things. Over months or years, his former allies in DICE may have considered it to be endearing, but it obviously doesn't win him any friends in the game, even though he seems to think it should.

Obviously his nightmare faces and unpleasant acts make him a pseudo-villainous character, while his seemingly noble intent make him seem almost heroic. However, declaring him either heroic or villainous would be ignoring the fact that his morality is clearly intended to be just as checkered as his scarf. He means well and gives helpful accounts, but he still betrays his best friend and kills off his most helpful assistant instead of just trying to convince her not to kill him. He thinks he's being entertaining, but he's still jerking around his classmates when they are going through a very tough time. He gives hints that ultimately help end the killing game, but there's no guarantee that it will stick and he also obscured hints that were necessary to access important areas in the endgame.

I'll also note something more about Shuichi and the class than Kokichi is that they are WAY more forgiving of his lying than anyone I know. If you introduced yourself as a liar and made it deliberately hard to tell what you are being honest about, I doubt your accounts would be worth anything in a court setting, but they are accepted as readily as those of any other student. It might be a Japanese thing, I know the Ace attorney games tend to have people lying on the witness stand all the time, but to a westerner who is used to people being under oath to "Tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth" when they provide an account, it's a bit strange to have people openly being dishonest in court.

It would've been interesting to have that come up in chapter 4, where he's arguing against Kaito and everyone (and I mean everyone) ends up taking Kaito's side because nobody trusts Kokichi, so they nearly end up voting for the wrong person until he manages to present solid evidence, but instead it's presented as "Kaito's too emotional" because of course Kaito's the main character so it's got to be about him...

Jk, it's a lie! (that last statement, not the whole thing)

i always love when people metatheorize about how this game played out from the in-universe perspective of team danganronpa, because pretty much every interpretation underscores what a parade of disasters season 53 was from the word go. at least junko and ai junko almost got it right.

i also agree that if your end game is manipulation on a large scale, there's no reason to be such an overt asshole. it's much easier to manipulate people with basic kindness and validation (see: angie yonaga, who brought half the student body under her thrall by pretending to give a fuck about their spiritual wellbeing). it made sense to me that people like byakuya (who was privileged and arrogant) and nagito (who was deranged) would alienate others however unhelpful it was to their strategies, but someone like kokichi, who fancied himself a tactician, should have known better. he should have used his lies to be something akin to chapter one nagito: a wolf in sheep's clothing.

I have a sub-theory that part of the reason things went so badly is that the "personality overwrite" tech was on the fritz and so it wasn't actually a complete overwrite, meaning the students still had traces of their previous personality and weren't acting like the in-universe writers had planned. The only example I could think of with any real grounding was Miu and how she acts confident and brash but instantly folds when confronted, but it does seem like something worth considering especially in the weeks to come.

On Kokichi's dickishness, what's even more baffling is how he's not totally consistent with it, he'll weep buckets over the others dying and about them picking on him but then just stops on a dime and goes right back to joking and prodding. If it was intentional and he wanted to get people to act predictably so he could plan around them, it seems like getting them to have a solid impression of who he is, even if it's a bad one, would be more advantageous than turning himself into a wild card that leans toward being untrustworthy. It almost gives the impression that he wants to be seen as trustworthy, sympathetic, and likable but doesn't actually know how to pull it off properly so his personality seemingly flips around like crazy until he finally gives up on acting kind and just plays the villain.

load more comments (2 replies)

I won't talk too much about Kokichi's role in the story, because it's already covered by a lot of others. So I'm gonna just get it out of the way

After the success of Nagito, Kodaka did the same thing again. Now obviously Nagito and Kokichi are different characters but their role in the story is the same. The antagonistic rival who constantly talks about nothing but the theme of the game. Ends up being the Case 5 victim, trying to make an unsolvable crime by getting himself killed. He even has a crush on the protagonist

People can nitpick me all you want, but those do not sound like superficial similarities to me. Kokichi's biggest problem in the story is that he's forced in a role you can see coming from the beginning. People talk about how complex and nuanced and ambiguous he is just because he lies all the time. That does not make an impressive character to me. I actually love this post because it just summarizes exactly how I feel when people wax poetic about his extremely flat (pun intended) role in the story

I actually really wonder why so many DR fans think having a character who's role is to just expatiate the theme of the game is anything more than the laziest way possible to present your theme :/

But hey, I don't hate everything about him. I actually like his role in moments like Ch3, where he calls out Himiko for lying to herself. It kind of gave me hints of what a Kokichi I liked would be like. He's like that friend who's a dick but not afraid to call you out on your flaws

If he weren't so derivative and played a role like Ch3 killer or something, I actually think he could be a really well done character. But I knew from the beginning when he constantly spouted about lies that he'd be the Ch5 victim

Instead he takes up way too much screentime than worthwhile. He steals the spotlight for so many character moments and it often just feels like Kodaka jacking it to his favorite character. I don't have a problem with some characters being more important than others but when it's to the point where it negatively harms the other ones in the game, I do

So that's about what I think of his role in the story. So why do I hate Kokichi so much?

He's a fucking annoying little shit. His personality is straight up awful and unamusing. His English VA is extremely annoying (I actually like his Japanese one, despite preferring the dub usually) and makes him unpleasant to listen to. He gets so much screentime saying the same unfunny shit and spouting his lies mantra

And I know people like this kind of character. I often see people categorize him as funny and a good addition to the cast dynamic. I'm not one to judge for things like this (see flair) and I understand it comes down to a preference. So Kokichi fans, I'm glad you enjoy him

But I don't. He was extremely grating. To me he's not annoying in the good kind of way, he's annoying in the Scrappy-Doo kind of way. The characters can be annoyed by him, and the fans can laugh at how funny he is for being annoying, but I just found him extremely annoying. Almost every line spouted out by him made me want to smash my head against the wall

I've said it before, but I categorize characters into two categories: personality and depth. I find personality more important but both are needed. I find his depth pretty questionable/lacking in the main game but his personality is just so awful that he unfortunately holds a strong spot in my bottom 3 for least favorite V3 characters. He could've ended up being as complex as The Invisible Man but it wouldn't matter when I find a character to be this unpleasant at nearly every moment of the game

He gets an amusing line here and there, and there are parts in Chapters 1-3 where I actually found myself almost liking where he was going, but he's about as enjoyable as Hiyoko for me

Edit: But I am going to add that I don't think he cared about Gonta. I understand what people talk mean when they say this, and that he had his "serious" sprite. Maybe he was broken up about it. But if Gonta was his friend he wouldn't come up with a retarded and contrived plan to kill him that had lots of other options. There was no greater good here, the whole idea was moronic

The #1 instance of kokichi just randomly grabbing the spotlight is his weird conversations with miu. Not only does it add random trial filler, but it's basically just kokichi shaming and putting down miu for kicks.

You know who should be calling out miu? Gonta. Instead of having Miu act like a masochist, have her be embarrassed and snap back at gonta. It makes sense to have a dynamic between a very sexual character like miu and a character who is trying to turn away from animalistic desires. Not to mention that it's implied that gonta is watching porn while rantaro is being murdered, and he has a run-in with miu while she's being all exhibitionist, it's already clear that gonta has trouble committing to the gentleman act. Instead of expanding on that, it's yet another occurrence of kokichi shitting all over someone just because.

Hm, I really like that idea. A character like Gonta would make a perfect contrast against Miu since you'd think he'd naturally want to stand up for her if she's under fire.

I do like that Miu actually folds when someone snaps back at her, but I think it worked better without the sexual subtext. With Kaede, it made sense that Miu/Kaede constantly would butt heads but could at least carry a (still frustrating) decent conversation. With Kokichi, it just feels like annoying one sided bullying, and same goes for how he talks to Keebo. It was a lot like how Hiyoko would just stop during the trial to call Mikan a skanky bitch or a stupid slut for no real reason and it just really crossed a personal line for me, and even with Hiyoko it was more in line with her type of character than it was Kokichi.

i think miu's dynamic with kokichi is both characters' least rewarding. it takes a character like miu who actually has some pretty interesting contradictions and texture (yes, she's an irritating, socially inept horndog, but she's also confident and competent and explicitly the most talented person in the entire class) and reduces her to a pretty boring/fanservicey 'domme in the streets/sub in the sheets' trope. it also doesn't particularly add anything to a character like kokichi, who's not running out of punching bags in the cast and doesn't need to spend as much time as he does gleefully roasting someone as basically harmless as miu (well, harmless until she tries to murder him, i guess).

Imo I'd rather have her stand up for herself because I like that she's very confident and open. But I think people get annoyed because there's nobody to play off of that, she's either being vulgar on her own or kokichi talks down to her and she doubles down as a masochist.

I would like the idea of her folding if there was less sexual overtones and more about outright embarrassment. It's already implied that she hasn't actually had any sexual experience. It would be better if she says something and somebody else just goes "That's not how it works" or drops an even more vulgar statement as a response. It would go with the idea of Miu being taken down a notch, but go in line with the idea that she has little real knowledge instead of making it even more sexual.

I'm all for having Miu not be a super horndog, though that's something I'll save for her discussion week. I'm not exactly one who thought Gonta really needed to be around for four chapters anyway, so I'd have approached her character a lot differently to begin with and just killed off Gonta much earlier in the plot.

I did make my own comment here already about my more mixed feelings for Itchy Cock Grandma, but I definitely veer more towards the "hate" part... particularly, everything you said right now just nailed it.

Even though I could find myself to enjoy his character (and ONLY his general character, NOT his role in the story), his biggest flaw to me is that he's inconsistently written, and pretty much intentionally so because Kodaka knew what he created was a "thing that lies about everything, literally everything..." and he would only naturally abuse it even more than the seventy-nine joints he must have had up his nostrils when he wrote DR2's Chapters 3 and 6.

And let's not even get started on the "Lies" theme this game (and Kodaka, basically) forces on us harder than a tip up my arse at full speed... I mean, here I was thinking that Maki was sloppily written, but Grandma almost tops that..

But I am going to add that I don't think he cared about Gonta. I understand what people talk mean when they say this, and that he had his "serious" sprite. Maybe he was broken up about it. But if Gonta was his friend he wouldn't come up with a retarded and contrived plan to kill him that had lots of other options. There was no greater good here, the whole idea was moronic

You're right about this fact. I think he cared more for Gonta than most other characters, but he placed the value of their lives far below his. While I don't believe that there were a whole lot of other options to handle Miu's situation because of Kokichi's paranoia of trusting others, I don't think Kokichi was making his option out to be something good. He clearly thought that what he did was inexcusable.

It's not so much Kokichi himself, but so many people acting like it was Paranoia or that he seriously regretted it. I've seen a number of let's players overlook this or act like it was fine since Kokichi felt bad about it when there were ways that don't involve tossing Gonta under the bus to resolve the situation.

Even though I love Kokichi, I do hate when people try to defend his actions and say that what he did in Chapter 4 was excusable because of his goals. Paranoia and his inability to trust anyone played a huge hand with his decision, but that doesn't make it sympathetic. Crying about Gonta's death doesn't make him sympathetic either.

He's a fucking annoying little shit. His personality is straight up awful and unamusing. His English VA is extremely annoying (I actually like his Japanese one, despite preferring the dub usually) and makes him unpleasant to listen to. He gets so much screentime saying the same unfunny shit and spouting his lies mantra

I kinda felt this way too. It felt like they just injected as many one liners or tried to have him steal the show way too many times and I just found it annoying as all hell. I think a good thing to point out is that a lot of Kokichi's lines sound pretty damn reasonable if you had Hiyoko say the same things, particularly him being a complete dick to Miu, Keebo (much like Mikan and Kazuichi were bullied by Hiyoko) and it just got extremely annoying. I felt the whole "oh, he's just lying/not serious" thing in this context just makes the fact that he's still a complete bully like Hiyoko feel worse since they're incredibly passive aggressive about it. Even Hiyoko had the problem of at most maybe one or two characters ever commenting on the fact that she's bullying the others or calling them out on it, but I just never found it even the slightest bit funny.

As for his VA, I think it's definitely a script issue. Dude did a great job as Fuyuhiko, and thinking to other roles like Takaya from Persona 3, he can get really hammy without breaking the mood, but even if he had fun with this role, it felt more obnoxious having to sit through the game.

Oh I certainly loved DSP as Fuyuhiko, and even think he gets the best delivery in the game. This one just didn't work for me. I find myself skipping Kokichi's dialogue when I go through Case 4 again because everything he's saying is just uninteresting and lacks the punch the game wants it to ("This is what you wanted right? The thing you wanted so badly-a truth without any lies!")

That's the other thing I felt was pretty bad about Kokichi was how forced his "evil" sprites were. He's still not the worst character in terms of spritework because Maki exists, but most of those evil sprites they have toward the end of the game just look awful.

One other thing I forgot, but I actually feel that Ryoma's character handles the whole "person who can call out lies" thing better than Kokichi. At least with Ryoma, the game establishes that he's very quiet and observant, so he can tell that people are hiding things based on their change in body language. He's the one to point out Shuichi's change in demeanor during his chapter 2 angst, and he calls out Kaede's lie about being fine during his FTEs with her. He still has to make a guess as to what they're being quiet about and the characters at least have some kind of tell that gives him an idea that someone is lying. He also makes enough reasonable mistakes where it's clear he's not just making perfect guesses to a contrived degree.

Mikan had a sort of similar ability in her FTEs in DR 2, but they never really played with it much. Even Ryoma being the chapter 5 victim if he didn't value his life but thought he'd put it to use as a sort of a Heroic version of Nagito trying to thwart the killing game for everyone's benefit would have been cool.

Headcanon where Ryoma's cuff is actually a bracelet and he can perceive tells like Apollo Justice

Unfortunately I kind of get the feeling that Kodaka just decided they were going to have a midget with a deep voice in the game, and he'd be the Ch2 victim. Then they decided to write him well because he wouldn't stick around long. Which is pretty backwards, but I really don't think Ryoma had a snowball's chance to live any longer than he did since the decision was probably made before he was even fully conceptualized

my bottom 3 for least favorite V3 characters.

This is extremely irrelevant and nit-picky but you should either say top 3 for least favourite V3 characters or bottom 3 for favourite V3 characters.

Bottom 3 for least favourite DRV3 characters would suggest hes in your top 3

Yeah, my mistake

I did Kokichi's FTE's first since I wanted to figure out what he was about, and honestly, it was disappointing. Maybe I don't think enough, but all I got out of it was "yeah, he's a liar", but I mean I knew that already. His interactions with other characters are basically him lying and the others getting jebaited. That's what I liked about Komaeda: he had a gimmick, but his gimmick went places and changed his interactions with the characters. I feel like there could have been so much more to Kokichi's character, but his role as supreme leader and liar boxed him in to the point that he had nowhere to go.

About him caring about Gonta: I didn't like that whole debate to begin with. It seemed like a setpiece to give Kokichi some emotional depth, though I like what it did for Gonta. Like you said, there were so many other options. I just felt bad for Gonta. I didn't really care about Kokichi at all. Honestly, my complaints about Kokichi hold true for a lot of the V3 characters: they were too boxed in by their gimmicks.

Oh yeah his FTEs are just a big pile of bleh. Don't care for them at all

I actually never really liked Nagito and it was after playing V3 and seeing how bad Kokichi was that I began to appreciate him way more lol

load more comments (1 reply)

I think Kokichi is the best antagonist in the trials, compared to Nagito and Byakuya, mostly because he's more realistic. You don't typically encounter a rich asshole or a hope-obsessed loon on a daily basis, but I'm sure a lot of people deal with a compulsive liar.

You don't typically encounter a rich asshole or a hope-obsessed loon on a daily basis

Eh, you run into a lot of arrogant jerks, even if they're not rich.

But aside for hope bullshit, Nagito is extremely helpful in the trials

go to any party with cocaine on the table. every third dude is a byakuya.

kokichi, to me, exists in the nagito realm: he takes up so much space in the narrative, and is explicitly designed to be unreliable, with contradictory and opaque motives. the game encourages you to analyze him, but the way they present the character means that any analysis requires a lot of interpretation and projection on the part of the reader. which i honestly think is kind of a cheat on the part of the writers, because the way kokichi is written is so vague and contradictory that you could find evidence to support literally any interpretation of the material (your time to shine, u/Skygd
). i'm not saying that characters who are written to be enigmatic or unreliable are necessarily poorly written, but i do think there are a lot of instances with kokichi where the narrative tries to have its cake and eat it, too.

the most obvious, for me, is the emotional climax to his story where he indicates that he actually detests the killing game and all of his bullshit schemes have been in service of peaceably ending it, which, as i've said before, feels ludicrously unearned to me (where does murdering gonta for no fucking reason figure into your pacifism, kokichi?). it's a very danganronpa thing to paint your villains in shades of grey to give the illusory depth of good writing, and i get that kokichi is this game's character whose entire existence is devoted to embodying The Theme (in this case, truth/lies) so there needs to be some muddiness about his identity and motives. but i'd appreciate him more as a straightforward villain because this franchise's constant need to talk out of both sides of its mouth about its bad guys in order to make them the biggest bundle of contradictions imaginable is exhausting and often leads to pretty tedious characterization. by never really committing to who kokichi is or why he acts the way he does, the writing allows you to interpret him any way you choose, and mistakes it for complexity. if you want me to be concise and petty: kokichi is fake deep.

so having gotten my central thesis out of the way, 'kokichi is a product of loosey goosey writing that reaches for complexity and lands in convolution instead,' let me tell you my personal feelings about the guy. i'm not interested in litigating the purity of his motives, because again you could make any case here and find evidence to back it up (although there's a reckless arrogance and carelessness with human life underpinning it all that makes it hard for me to believe he's any kind of good person). and i'm not interested, as i imagine many will be, in dissecting his big fake mastermind plot in chapter five, because i think it's a dumb, shitty plan that falls apart under any kind of scrutiny and leaves a million important and obvious variables unaccounted for (e.g., the professional assassin who's in love with the dude he just kidnapped). i'll opt instead for a more simplistic reading that, in my opinion, neatly accounts for every single action kokichi takes during the killing game: the dude's a narcissist. he's a desperate attention seeker with delusions of grandeur who pathologically needs to be the centre of every single situation that plays out.

this accounts for the constant lying. this accounts for his title of 'ultimate supreme leader' when really he's just a little shithead who plays pranks. it accounts for the extreme, manipulative, cruel depths he plumbs in chapter four when his problem is more simply solved by not entering the virtual world. and it accounts for his plan in chapter five, far more than any notion of altruism or internal motivation around ending the killing game ever could. because at that point, it doesn't matter if it ends the game, if it's a good or even logical plan, as long as all eyes are on kokichi. HE gets to be the big supervillain. HE gets to be the great hero. HE gets to be the one to defeat monokuma and stop the killing game, in the best case scenario. and in the worst case scenario, he's at least subjected himself to this jaw-dropping, outrageous, gruesome self-mutilating death. it's all about kokichi. whatever he's convinced himself his motives are, if you conceive of it all as predominantly a massive, insecure grab for attention and significance, well, the whole thing squares away pretty tidily.

so that's my take. it's simple and clean and absolves me of having to parse through the endless bullshit of kokichi's lies and half-baked schemes and the messiah complex that seems to spring up out of nowhere at the eleventh hour to retroactively justify all of his terrible behaviour. i've said before that it's a uniquely kokichi problem that there's always some kind of in-universe justification for whatever asshole thing he's done, but that the narrative/the fans act like it's justified as the ONLY thing he could have done when there's a million other open doors right in front of him. if you start looking at these incidents not in terms of whether they're the most logical things he could have done, or whether they come close to accomplishing his stated goals, but instead whether they get people noticing him and questioning him and talking about him and having feelings about him and paying attention to him, they start to make a lot more sense.

There's something you pointed out that I have been sharing the same opinion for the longest time. After finishing v3, my view of ouma as a character is that he wasn't complex in any way: his motive (of ending the killing game) is clear and his specific behaviors are open for interpretations, rather than actually being complex, which is something that gives you a fake feeling of complexity and I have seen this in another stories as well. The way they do it is so forced though that aside of making some things so vague at times, he is even lacking in backstory just so they can prevent the player to understand the character.

I feel like they were trying to create a lot of suspense with him, but couldn't think of any clear payoff to the suspense and just left him as seeming like he's complex despite being pretty straightforward and more inconsistent than anything.

How is his problem in chapter 4 erased by him not entering the virtual world? Does that make Miu suddenly lose the desire to kill?

it solves the temporary problem of miu's virtual world murder attempt without bloodshed (or at least solves the issue of her attempting to kill him; she might have tried for plan b and gone after someone else, but at least kokichi would be out of the line of fire).

as for whether miu would attempt to kill kokichi outside of the virtual world, maybe, although i think it's telling that she never tried to kill anyone in a world where she didn't have total control over all the variables. miu may have had the motivation, but she was a bit of a coward.

It might solve that temporary problem but it creates an even bigger problem of having someone as OP as Miu can be desiring to kill someone. Kokichi was lucky that he got wind of her plan in the virtual world and he had to act with that because god knows what Miu could come up with next in her paranoid state.

it's simple and clean and absolves me of having to parse through the endless bullshit of kokichi's lies and half-baked schemes and the messiah complex that seems to spring up out of nowhere at the eleventh hour to retroactively justify all of his terrible behaviour.

Believe it or not, but I'll be showing in my counterargument why that way of thinking is exactly how one is fooled by Kokichi in the first place. In fact, the assumption that he's honest about what he's lying about (That is to say, when he says something is a lie you think he's telling the truth) is what has me laughing in hysterics because that is what a trickster does!

Plenty of people who play Danganronpa know about Ace Attorney. I like the game Dual Destinies a lot more than the average fan, but I think its worst case without question is the third one, Turnabout Academy. It has a character who mostly spouts off what sounds more like an annoying catchphrase rather than an insightful viewpoint. This character mostly to be a mouthpiece for the game's poorly conveyed theme surrounding the Dark age of the Law, and it's done in the most unsubtle way imaginable, and Aristotle Means is by far one of the worst parts of DD.

Not only do I dislike Kokichi as a character, I think he's in many ways comparable to Aristotle, because when I started to write this up, I noticed how similar what I wanted to say about Kokichi was to what I've said about Aristotle Memes in the past. I don't feel like V3 really complimented Kokichi's character and doesn't create good scenarios for him to play around in, and even worse is the tone the game takes with Kokichi toward the end. Both Means and Kokichi are given a major role for their respective cases, but the format of the cases make it painfully obvious where they're going with the story despite them trying to fake you out. Both of them have actions that hinge on a huge and dumb assumption that exist to make the mystery work, but don't make much sense in terms of the mystery. Being obvious isn't a bad thing, but neither really has as much fun with it as I felt they could. I will explain my feelings toward Kokichi because I say what I mean and mean what I say by all means. (It's a lie XD)

In the first half of the game, Kokichi isn't anything too bad. I personally find his character a pain because, again, having a character just constantly spouting off lies for your game about truth/lies really gets old fast, but they did at least know to have fun with him. Doing things like his troll fakeout death in case 3 led to some fairly good moments. I feel like they ram it in too hard because his dialogue is in one of three categories: him saying it' a lie or he's able to spot lies, him being a dick to someone or insulting them, or him trying too hard to meme to get a reaction out the player. In terms of character traits, I just found him incredibly annoying, and just because he's a prankster and that's the point doesn't mean it's well handled, because when I say I find him annoying, I mean more in the sense that I find the entire character shallow and don't care enough to play along with the game suggesting he has some ulterior motive or grand plan. The tries to vaguely say a million different things about an already broad concept in truth/lies that I don't feel they really say much of anything. Kokichi suffers a lot as a result and, much like Kaito and Shuichi in some ways, I don't feel like he gets to be a character or an actual person but instead just a chess piece to act as a mouthpiece for the theme of the game.

The fact that the game recycles so much from older games hurts a lot too, mostly because V3 has some really good experimental ideas, but they don't compliment the rules and conventions of Danganronpa, so while there's a lot you can do with Kokichi, it just doesn't come together for me. Because there aren't really organic situations made to warrant a lie out of characters aside from maybe two cases, it just feels really forced when the characters feel the need to inject them into the conversation constantly. I don't care about Kokichi's true thoughts as opposed to his behavior when I knew exactly where his character was going to go since about chapter 2, down to the exact game by game comparisons. It's not a case 2 unless you have an antagonistic character give a speech about how trusting people is dumb, just like Fuyuhiko and Byakuya did. They also have to have the antagonistic character happen to see the killer right around the time of the murder, just as Byakuya spotted Mondo with Chihiro's body and Fuyuhiko with Peko, Kokichi is right around with Kirumi since it forms their whereabouts.

Case 4 kicks off with Kaito hitting Kokichi because he said Sakura should die of their deep conflict with each other. The second half is where Kokichi really starts to nosedive for me.

Back in Kaito's discussion week, I said he was mostly a fine character but his actions in chapter 2 felt really unnatural with him deciding to trust Maki, which had the effect of making case 4 feel less like a clash of ideals and more of a really unnatural situation contrasting with another unnatural situation. I feel like the game constantly wants to create tension with Kokichi by making his motivations unclear initially and hitting everyone with a big reveal at the end, since this is when Kokichi stops being just a troll and throws Gonta under the bus and gets Miu killed as well. Now yes, Gonta made the choice to do this and Miu was planning on killing him, and I'm not suggesting this is just Kokichi, but his hands aren't clean here. Teruteru made the choice to kill in DR 2, but that doesn't mean that Nagito had no responsibility.

If the game simply wanted to go with a more villainous portrayal, then I'd honestly be fine. Kokichi doesn't give a shit about the others, throws whoever he has to under the bus, strongarms Kaito into working for him by threatening Maki's life with the poison setup, and risks everyone's life with his unknown murder trick. That works. I just feel that when you try different interpretations of his motivations, they all start to fall apart no matter what angle we take. If you go for the paranoia angle, then he had a billion different ways he could deal with Miu that didn't result in another killing, class trial, or the game acting like Kaito is an emotional dipshit for thinking Kokichi did it when he was directly involved with the case, knowingly worked with Monokuma, and despite the game using the avatar paralysis feature as a way to rule Kokichi out as a culprit, there funnily enough is still a way he could have killed Miu by way of strangulation.

If we're gonna go with the "he hates killing" angle then we can just point out the obvious in that a third of the chapters of killings happen solely because Kokichi set them all into motion. Setting up an entire murder plot that hinges on Monokuma cooperating with you and hoping he'll just allow himself to be screwed with the exisal to create an unknown victim doesn't really feel satisfying to me and it just feels really foolish to make such a large assumption and assume he'll follow the rules when the game has established that he adds new ones as the situations dictate. Then to make matters worse, case 6 suggests he added to the messages he had absolutely no way of knowing were in any way relevant to their escape (and if Monokuma had open enough access to the arena to build everything being set up there, he could have easily put the messages there himself) as his own way of helping everyone.

If you want to go villainous, sure, but acting like Kokichi was in any way acting in a beneficial way to thwart the killing game when he almost gets everyone killed and gets four people killed is pretty shitty. Any moments like saying he genuinely did care about Gonta (if you interpret his villain persona as the lie and his sadness toward Gonta as genuine) goes out the window when he's the direct cause of them. Imagine how disingenuous Case 1-2 would seem if Mondo instead planned out a way to kill Chihiro and the game still acted like he seriously regretted it. The setup can only work if it wasn't premeditated, and I feel like the game is trying too hard to make Kokichi more mysterious by having his true intentions hidden and all over the place by having these moments, but it just falls apart horribly. Anything like him being a dick to HImiko as a way of trying to actually help her deep down goes out the window when he goes off the deep end pulling off some of the most sociopathic actions in the game, and I think they went too far in trying to make another moral wild card.

A character like Justine Courtney from Ace Attorney Investigations 2 is a good example of creating mystery with a character's motivation. (and even then she has a few issues at points in going too far) She's morally a pretty straightforward character, but they create mystery by making it unclear if her kinder moments are genuine. If she helped you take down Mr. McDickhead, did she do it because she wants to do away with corruption, or was it a power grab for herself and she's just as corrupt herself? Not only that, but the conventions of the series compliment the situation because you can reasonably think the rival can turn out to also be the final killer of the game, which they've done in the past.

With Kokichi, I feel like they try to make this new character but stick way too closely to the formula to really pull any surprises off, and case 5 didn't really catch me off guard. I feel like case 4 was basically an inversion of the dilemma between Byakuya and Asahina in DR 1, and I feel it'd be better if you either retool the circumstances of later cases or just commit to making Kokichi a full-on villain. As he stands now, he feels less like a character and more as a mouthpiece for the game's themes. His murder plot is really stupid and hinges on some really large assumptions when you look back on it, his "lying" bit feels more like an annoying catchphrase than a way of life for him, and the game's format makes his role in the plot painfully obvious despite how the game is acting like it's some complicated mystery to unravel. The "main" characters like Shuichi and Kokichi feel less like characters and more chess pieces for whatever theme the game is trying to get across, but I don't feel those themes are worth preserving when they're just pseudo philosophy at best trying to say a billion different things at once.

I absolutely see Kokichi as Danganronpa Aristotle Means, and I say what I mean and mean what I say by all means.

Wherever I look I always see people say that Ouma could have easily debunk Miu's plan without hurting her but I don't really see it. What makes you think that ?

He could've shown her the flashback light in the virtual world

I think when that's said it's that there are several ways he could have gone about the situation. The first would be to get proof of the nature of the neo world program. If he pointed out that there was a weapon left in the program and he just got Miu to claim that she removed them all, it makes it much more suspect if she's suddenly trying to get everyone to go in and she lied about there being no weapons.

Even if you wanted to say she could just try again, it'd definitely cast a lot of doubt on her, or at the very least, he could simply ask Gonta to protect everyone after knowing that, since even if Gonta didn't necessarily trust Kokichi after that, he'd have the sense to look after Miu more closely after knowing she did that.

At the very least, even if he absolutely did have to ultimately throw Miu under the bus, there's no reason to seek a partnership with Monokuma, lie your way through the trial (which would have killed him anyway) or tease everyone over the fact that Gonta did it while insisting he didn't do it even though he was still directly involved in the case.

Even if they just had Kokichi decide to throw him under the bus, I think it's a bit of a huge stretch to ask us to care about Kokichi after doing such a selfish thing, so even if he genuinely felt bad for what he did to Gonta, I don't exactly care if he still made the choice to do it. In my above example, it'd be like Mondo being upset about having killed Chihiro not working as a compelling moment if the murder was premeditated instead.

Even in the case of Leon, the cast has a bit of a lukewarm response to Leon killing Sayaka even if it was justified self-defense since he still came back, so It's not necessarily the event itself and more what the game asks you to feel toward Kokichi if we're to accept that he was lying about being a selfish dick that didn't care about Gonta's life.

He could have warned everyone about the virtual world which, even if they don't necessarily trust Kokichi more, would result in them scrutinizing Miu a lot more. If you have him take the time not to be a complete shit to everyone, he'd at least have a better chance at being safe since at worst he was a dick and a bit of a troll in the first half of the game.

I feel like he mostly just used the situation to his advantage since his fake mastermind plan would have fallen apart immediately if Miu said anything, though (and this is something I'll bring up in Miu's week) just the fact that she'd even consider making anything he requested I think is pretty ridiculous.

Your points are like, super valid but I think Ouma could fear Miu "betraying" him, she knew way too much for safety of his plan and Miu could easily ruin him. That was too much of a risk (even for Kokichi's standards) so he decided to eliminate her as a safer option. Aside from that he totally had a strong grudge against her, he simply didn't want to find a way that helps her, his attitude towards people who commit murders changes drastically, see how he liked to be around Tojo and after trial 2 he (along Kaito) was the only person to call her out ruthlessly. In different words she was rotten beyond repair to him.

True that, but in terms of actually preventing a killing, I can understand if he thinks that, but it makes it much harder to sell the whole "he totally regretted it" angle if you want to interpret Kokichi's arc as one of sheer paranoia.

If I were to compare it to someone like Celeste, she actively wants the killings to stop even if she constantly has a facade about her overwhelming fear up, and it comes to play in the form of the nighttime rule she suggests. More and more she sees people breaking the rule and it wears on her. The main difference is that when she murders and tries to lie by saying it was just the money and not partially motivated by paranoia (if you choose to interpret it that way) the game is still at least smart by not trying to portray it as sympathetic in any way.

I can't be asked to see Kokichi as altruistic in any way when he makes the kind of choices he does in cases 4 and 5. I think it's an issue of Danganronpa trying too hard to make all the perpetrators too sympathetic and altruistic. If they changed around the killing game rules and got rid of the mass execution rule, I think you could play with some cool ideas, like maybe someone else dies, and Kokichi, realizing that Miu wants him dead, tampers with the crime he had no involvement in to pin the crime on her and lie his way through to save his own skin.

There are a lot of mystery scenarios you can't really do because the mass execution rule constantly is in the air muddling things.

Yea, "Kokichi actually cared for other students" thing makes no sense if you think about it, I feel like he felt "something" during Gontas execution but it wasn't anything that could make up for his actions, especially considering that in chapter 5 he is back on his bullshit. Geez Kodaka what a mess.

right? 'i am truly devastated that gonta is being executed entirely upon my personal whim.' sad story bro.

I remember reading an interview with a director for a Marvel movie saying that you want your villains to have background story and motivation as opposed to just pure evil incarnated, but it doesn't mean you're supposed to sympathize with their actions and that's where most inexperienced writers screw up. Especially when you consider the context of the story, you really shouldn't feel sorry for a guy that's either trying to murder you or destroy the Earth.

Like you said, it'd make a lot more sense if there isn't a mass execution rule. It is fine to sympathize with the murderer as long as you're not the one getting killed. I'd think it'd even play well into the theme of how people are all selfish and murderous if it turns out that people are totally fine with murdering someone that everyone hates.

Can't say I disagree.

Well, his plan wasn't only to stop Miu, he wanted to manipulate things to make him look like the mastermind, I guess he felt that he needed to sacrifice someone for that even though that would torn his old rule up.

a lot of this went over my head bc i didn't play ace attorney but i get you.

I feel like the game is trying too hard to make Kokichi more mysterious by having his true intentions hidden and all over the place by having these moments, but it just falls apart horribly.

this is basically what my problem is and you summarize it well. ouma is simply there to muddle the layers between the themes of the game, to keep you guessing but there's nothing of value in there. all it does is create a false sense of mystery goading you into thinking he's doing something smart when he's just hinting at contradictory things so theorists can fall into the trap of thinking needlessly about a story with nearly no consequence.

Imo kokichi is a great depiction at how the larger theme of truth and lies fell flat on his face. My friend is a huge kokichi fan (he also introduced me to the series so I guess I can put up with him). He's firmly in the "kokichi did nothing wrong" camp. Everything good is kokichi being genuine and everything bad was kokichi lying.

Like in case 4. If I ask why kokichi planned miu's murder and got gonta executed, the counter is he was telling the truth when he cried over gonta. But if I point out that he planned everything, that was a lie because he felt guilty about choosing miu's death over his own. But then when it comes to the secret of the world and how he cooperated with monokuma, it's a lie that he planned to have gonta kill miu but it's true that he did to end the killing game by proclaiming himself mastermind.

Basically, I don't get kokichi because he doesn't really have concrete motivations. Part of dgr2's themes was showing that HPA was a false idol. Likewise, nagito is fine with students living or dying, or murdering everyone involved with despair. Even if his actions seem blatantly contradictory, the game manages to explain why he would do those things, even if his logic is twisted (also he's fucking crazy).

With kokichi, he doesn't make me take away a strong message about the themes. Instead, it's just assigning truth and lies to each statement to follow whatever narrative you like. That's not really kokichi's fault, the themes are so broad and generic that they don't really mean anything. The issue is that basing a character on a theme that doesn't mean much is a great way to have a character with no real logic behind their actions.

If he wants to end the killing game, why plan the deaths of Miu and gonta? If he wants to beat the mastermind, why conceal the horse a clue instead of just telling everyone? If we are supposed to interpret him as someone with good intentions, why do we need to emphasize that he's a tool and nobody likes or understands him every single time he appears? If we're supposed to think he's the mastermind, why did they show a scene of him talking to (not controlling) monokuma, thereby revealing the twist as false before it even happened?

I feel like he's a character that we're supposed to feel sympathetic for, but he's done nothing to earn that sympathy. It's certainly possible to find his good moments, but only if you're willing to paint specific moments as truth or lie. His schtick of "it's a lie" actively hampers our ability to figure out when we're supposed to like him, if at all.

I found him very similar to nagito, he's the villain who has some good intentions and goes about them in the wrong way. The difference is that you can justify all of nagito's actions by simply saying "hope>anyone and everyone on this island". And when he dies, he doesn't get a flashback about his apparently good intentions, he poisons himself and you're like "this guy's crazy as fuck". When kokichi died the main two things I was thinking was "This case feels like a weaker retread of 2-5" and "kaito died neato". The only death that I was more "k then" about was Yamada.

it feels like such a shame to me that danganronpa goes so didactic with its theme work, because i feel like these games could be so enriched if they didn't feel the need to flat out state what the reader should be thinking about (or, yes, premise their villain entirely upon these themes).

one exception: i think dr has always done a neat little job with 'talent' as a theme. it seems pretty obvious to me that the in-universe concept of 'ultimate talent' was initially introduced to help us tell the students apart ('holy fuck there's 15 of them... uh... well... that one's a swimmer... that one plays baseball...') but dr2 expands upon the function of talent in the narrative in a way that makes it a really effective stand-in for a lot of real world things. for nagito, it effectively becomes a stand-in for any elite group to which the average person does not have access by birthright, so you're looking at questions of class, privilege, hierarchy, etc. for hajime, it ends up taking on a really weird body-horror eugenics component, and so on. it's not the most subtle work, but i've always been impressed by how much creativity and mileage they got out of that theme, especially in the second game.

Basically, I don't get kokichi because he doesn't really have concrete motivations.

Ending the killing game?

If he wants to end the killing game, why plan the deaths of Miu and gonta?

His plan was, at the same time, a defense against Miu's plan and also a way to paint himself as the super evil guy so that everyone would believe his mastermind lie. Gonta needed to be sacrificed for that.

If he wants to beat the mastermind, why conceal the horse a clue instead of just telling everyone?

1) He didn't trust the others

2) He had no idea of what that clue was.

If we are supposed to interpret him as someone with good intentions, why do we need to emphasize that he's a tool and nobody likes or understands him every single time he appears?

Why does one thing have to do with the other?

If we're supposed to think he's the mastermind, why did they show a scene of him talking to (not controlling) monokuma, thereby revealing the twist as false before it even happened?

The mastermind wasn't controlling Monokuma in this game, this was estabilished in chapter 1.

I feel like he's a character that we're supposed to feel sympathetic for, but he's done nothing to earn that sympathy

That depends on your interpretation of him Kokichi is the embodiment of a lie and a lie has multiple possobilities. Did he care for the others or did he just wanted to win? Both arguments can be valid.

Ending the killing game?

He apparently hates killing, but then instigates an entire murder for his own benefit, while also continually antagonizing everyone who is trying to figure things out. There are a lot of smarter ways to end the killing game than declaring yourself the mastermind and getting turned into a human tortilla.

His plan was, at the same time, a defense against Miu's plan and also a way to paint himself as the super evil guy so that everyone would believe his mastermind lie. Gonta needed to be sacrificed for that.

He could easily defend himself by revealing Miu's plan to everyone. Gonta died so he could look evil, but everyone already thinks he's a dick prior to that. It's his apparent knowledge of how the world ended and the Gofer project that convinces everyone he's the mastermind. Not to mention this doesn't make sense on a gameplay level because by that point we already know he isn't the mastermind.

1) He didn't trust the others

2) He had no idea of what that clue was.

He makes a big deal about partnering with Shuichi in the ch. 4 investigation and trusts Kaito to follow through with his scheme in ch. 5. He's clearly not so paranoid that he can't discuss what a clue could mean.

Defacing it for his own intentions kinda makes sense to imply that he planted it there as the mastermind, but again, we already know by that point that he's not. So now it's either him getting rid of a clue for no productive reason, or it was always him being a bonehead.

Why does one thing have to do with the other?

?? Because they directly contrast and the player character participates in the shit-talk towards him?

The mastermind wasn't controlling Monokuma in this game, this was estabilished in chapter 1.

I thought it wasn't established until ch. 6 when it's shown to be the same as Motherkuma's AI. Either way, he's talking as about adding to the game and asking permission, while previously the masterminds outright controlled everything, that's what tipped me off. At the very least you can guess that he's working with someone else and he doesn't want them to interfere (the Exisals surrounding Monokuma also hints at this), which already shows that he isn't the sole mastermind, and doesn't have the freedom to do things like executions, motives, planting larger clues, etc. And even then it doesn't makes sense because he opens the conversation by saying he wasn't aware he could meet with monokuma alone, if he was actually working with the mastermind then it's a guarantee that he would have to see him 1 on 1.

Did he care for the others or did he just wanted to win? Both arguments can be valid.

That's part of my point, imo ambiguity=/=quality. Just because we can freely decide what to believe, doesn't make him a good character because it's hard to boil down his creed or message as a character. I can easily justify all of Nagito's actions as the pursuit of hope, but I find it difficult to discern what drives Kokichi because there's way too many assumptions to make about his feelings and decisions.

He apparently hates killing, but then instigates an entire murder for his own benefit, while also continually antagonizing everyone who is trying to figure things out. There are a lot of smarter ways to end the killing game than declaring yourself the mastermind and getting turned into a human tortilla.

He wanted to end the game but he also didn't trust anyone else.

About him hating killing, it 's not like moral compromises don't exist. It probably fucked him up inside to sacrifice Gonta like that but I feel like at that time his plan was maximum priority after seeing the state of the outside world.

He could easily defend himself by revealing Miu's plan to everyone.

Not only did he not trust anyone but that also wouldn't effectively deal with Miu's paranoia.

Gonta died so he could look evil, but everyone already thinks he's a dick prior to that. It's his apparent knowledge of how the world ended and the Gofer project that convinces everyone he's the mastermind.

He had to do a lot of things to convince people that everything just wasn't his lie, after all even if his reveals made it seem about the events of the past, those could easily be a deduction based around what he learned in the FB lights, which is why he needed the message in the rock, to show off his malice, etc.

Not to mention this doesn't make sense on a gameplay level because by that point we already know he isn't the mastermind.

Him not being the MM is pretty obvious from a meta level but for the cast, it wasn't.

He makes a big deal about partnering with Shuichi in the ch. 4 investigation and trusts Kaito to follow through with his scheme in ch. 5. He's clearly not so paranoid that he can't discuss what a clue could mean.

Yeah, him trusting Kaito with his plan is actually a big deal for him. Him "trusting" Shuichi in case 4 was not really trusting, it was convenience.

Defacinghis own intentions kinda makes sense to imply that he planted it there as the mastermind, but again, we already know by that point that he's not. So now it's either him getting rid of a clue for no productive reason, or it was always him being a bonehead.

We know but the cast doesn't.

?? Because they directly contrast and the player character participates in the shit-talk towards him?

You're saying that the player can only sympathize with characters the MC sympathizes with? The MC and the other characters have their own set of bias, y'know?

I thought it wasn't established until ch. 6 when it's shown to be the same as Motherkuma's AI

No, Shuichi talks about that in ch1.

At the very least you can guess that he's working with someone else and he doesn't want them to interfere (the Exisals surrounding Monokuma also hints at this), which already shows that he isn't the sole mastermind, and doesn't have the freedom to do things like executions, motives, planting larger clues, etc

His plan was to just fill the group with so much despair that they wouldn't kill one another anymore. He clearly didn't expect anyone to invade the hangar the way they were.

. And even then it doesn't makes sense because he opens the conversation by saying he wasn't aware he could meet with monokuma alone, if he was actually working with the mastermind then it's a guarantee that he would have to see him 1 on 1.

The fake mastermind thing was much more relevant to the cast than the player.

but I find it difficult to discern what drives Kokichi because there's way too many assumptions to make about his feelings and decisions.

It'a not like he is a complete mystery, we know about his goal and also a bunch of other things about him. However the ambiguity that he carries makes him an interesting character to be discussed.

Not only did he not trust anyone but that also wouldn't effectively deal with Miu's paranoia.

They had this same issue with Nagito in DGR2 and they tied him up and threw him in the other room. At the absolute least the cast would refuse to enter the NWP, thus denying her entire plot. Planning her murder is far from the pacifist approach. Also, even if he doesn't truly trust anyone, it's clear he's willing to cooperate if it's for his own benefit, and not dying pretty easily falls into that category.

You're saying that the player can only sympathize with characters the MC sympathizes with? The MC and the other characters have their own set of bias, y'know?

It plays into the larger point I was making. He acts like a dick, we're constantly told he's a dick, the MC participates in conversations about he's a dick, but then at the end we're supposed to "discover" that he hates killing and wanted to end the game. Now that we have some apparently real evidence that he could be a nice guy, and all the firsthand experience that he's a douche, you can claim one and say all evidence of the other is just a lie.

It'a not like he is a complete mystery, we know about his goal and also a bunch of other things about him.

We "know" that he wants to end the killing game, but I could say that his conversation with Kaito was a lie. His tears over Gonta were a lie. His whole idea of wanting to instill despair so nobody would kill each other was a lie. He was a complete jackass from start to finish. Or I could say the opposite.

If people like characters, great, if they don't like them, great. I actually enjoyed a lot of Kokichi in trials. But Kokichi specifically bothers me because you can use "it's a lie" to paint him as a huge jackass, an angel, or something in between, and because his whole schtick is that you never know the truth so it's hard to deny or agree. I think it goes as far as to undercut some of the key moments in the game. His breakdown over Gonta was one of my favorite moments of the game and arguably one of the best of the series. Then it's quickly dismissed as "iT's A LiE" because we're not allowed to have any cue of what's real and what's fake.

It's not like drawing many interpretations of the same event, it's saying "this is true and the contradictory example is a lie" or vice versa. I don't think it's a very interesting set-up, especially not for a villain that gets loads of screentime. I'm saying this because I've had discussions about characters and this exact thing has happened.

I feel like I always say that a character has a cool concept but not always the best execution. Kokichi's concept is basically "this guy represents one of the central themes", but it falls into the same issue of trying to say so much and look at things from so many angles that it fails to say much at all. I suppose that the fact that he's even worth discussing and people like him suggest that he's good execution of a poorly thought-out concept.

Also, as a side thing:

The fake mastermind thing was much more relevant to the cast than the player.

This just seems like poor gameplay, what's the point of entertaining a plot twist, and having most of the dialogue and events of the chapter based off said plot twist, when we know it's wrong. It's like telling us the killer midway through the chapter and then sitting through the whole investigation and trial knowing exactly where this is heading.

They had this same issue with Nagito in DGR2 and they tied him up and threw him in the other room.

i always think this when asked the question of an alternative plan to thwart miu's murder plot. just tie her up and shove her in a closet. you wouldn't have to deal with her and she'd love it. two birds, one stone.

load more comments (5 replies)

Both of them have actions that hinge on a huge and dumb assumption that exist to make the mystery work, but don't make much sense in terms of the mystery.

Which one is Means'?

Dual Destinies Case 3

Ah yeah that's right. 5-3

Anyway I pretty much agree with you. If you just make Kokichi a straight up villain who enjoyed the killing game but wanted to battle with Monokuma at the cost of others, he works so much better. Trying to have their cake and eat it too by making him "sympathetic" and have altruistic motives just makes him completely fall apart

okay so i basically totally agree with your take on kokichi both in his frustrating opacity as a villain and in the clumsiness with which he acts as a mouthpiece for the game's (heavy-handed) themes. and i also love dual destinies and remain vexed by its lukewarm critical reception.

you broached something i always forget about oma, namely:

case 6 suggests he added to the messages he had absolutely no way of knowing were in any way relevant to their escape (and if Monokuma had open enough access to the arena to build everything being set up there, he could have easily put the messages there himself) as his own way of helping everyone.

this is where a kokichi fan might come in handy: was there ever any explicit in-universe justification for how and why kokichi left these messages and knew them to be relevant to uncovering the game's larger mystery? or was it never really addressed? i legit don't recall.

this is where a kokichi fan might come in handy: was there ever any explicit in-universe justification for how and why kokichi left these messages and knew them to be relevant to uncovering the game's larger mystery? or was it never really addressed? i legit don't recall.

Monokuma left those messages as a puzzle for Rantaro. Kokichi only found them and thought they'd be relevant somehow.

Kokichi only found the 'Horse A' and 'Twins B' messages, and wrote them down in case it would be important. He messed with the Horse A one to troll everyone, which was a bit silly since it threw everyone off track for no good reason, but does show he wasn't completely sure that they would be important.

I guess simply taking a picture of what you saw, writing it down, taking turns having to guard it, or you know, anything that isn't posing as a mastermind and messing with the message without telling anyone is too difficult for Kokichi. :P

I kind of have the same issue with Kokichi as a sort of lie detector. It makes sense in situations like case 1 when Kaede is stammering and barely able to keep her composure as she's lying to everyone, but there are moments where it just makes no sense that he suddenly catches on to someone lying.

That's where his FTEs come in handy, because he actually tries to let you know how he's inexplicably knowing what he shouldn't (In one of Shuichi's FTEs he demonstrates the ability to know what he's saying word for word, in Kaede's first FTE he basically implies he knows what she's sighing about even though only the player would know what she was thinking) and bluffs about knowing as he's an excellent liar.

Basically, this is a character who is actually really obvious when you know how to read him but ridiculously tough when you don't, much like how Umineko end spoilers

Oh, and by the way- I forgot to address this but in the early days I actually took a crack at figuring out who was writing these things and in the end there's a number of clues which shows that Kokichi is the one writing it but the truth is the kid you were interacting with isn't Kokichi- That is to say, no one but Monokuma could have been doing so.

The gist of it is that I went ahead and studied the handwriting used in the JP version and these aren't all done by the same person: https://imgur.com/a/iUQ3bGi. You can also see this being replicated in the ENG version as the handwriting in Kokichi's 'will' is tidier and more grammatically sound.

Thanks for the response. I understand that he's able to know why people are lying and understanding that, but there are moments in the game where he not only calls them out on the lie, but knows what the actual truth is despite having no way to reasonable figure it out or deduce it, and it's that part of him that I think feels a bit contrived.

As for the handwriting, even if it looks different, that doesn't immediately mean you can conclude that they're by multiple writers. Even if it did, you have to ask why he'd think to tamper with it in the first place. The first mystery confirmed there were disposable cameras, so could he not simply take a picture of the original in case something happened to it? Why would he just connect that a random message on the ground is somehow this crucial thing that needs to be hidden? What would happen if he died at any point in the game? Why would you not immediately suspect that something written in an arena Monokuma has complete control over might be there just to troll you or something?

In DR 2, there's at least always a justification for why Nagito is a step ahead of everyone and they don't jump past that. In cases 1 and 5, he's directly involved in the killings, so of course he'd know how everything was going on. In case 3, he was with Mikan and saw her change in condition which gave him a huge clue that she was the suspect and he came in on the crime scene after the body was lowered, meaning he didn't have the image of suicide burned in his mind. In case 4, he clears the final dead room and sees how the building is arranged to understand the mystery, not to mention he's given a file that explains the big twists of the end of the game. In that scenario, it makes sense why Nagito is just magically ahead of everyone, and apart from his BDA clue in Case 2, that also happens to be the case he contributes the least to since he didn't get lucky with some kind of hint.

With Kokichi, apart from the outside world information in case 4, nothing he did really made sense to me when you put it all together, and his actions just felt really inconsistent. If you see a message on the ground and think it's important, I feel like there are a billion better ways to preserve it, and the only reason he did it the way he did was because the game wanted to create suspense but couldn't think of a good way to put it together, and him being this chessmaster supposedly being a step ahead of everyone just felt really underwhelming more than anything.

I didn't feel like Kokichi was a step ahead of everyone except in case 4 and 5. He almost messed up things in case 2 and 3 by suspecting the wrong people.

Not necessarily in the trials of course, but to suggest things like him just randomly calling out people and then his words implying he knows exactly what they're lying about (like Maki in case 1) stretch it a bit far to me.

Honestly, Kokichi is such a little lying shit (in a good way for me) that you can't really trust anything that comes out of his mouth without second guessing yourself. I feel like the only time in which he was completely honest was before Gonta's death and also when he was passing his plan to Kaito, I guess.

If I'm to believe he just lied, then that means he just happened to exactly guess about Maki's true nature despite having nothing in the game to suggest her actual talent and his words that hint at her being a killer of some kind were complete coincidence. I understand lying to hide a character's true motivations, but Kokichi has absolutely no way of knowing some of the things he hints at, even if he catches on that someone is lying. The way he words some of them feel way too on the nose to just be a coincidence. I dunno if it's handled differently in the Japanese version and just really poor localization for Kokichi (and I've seen a number of people make that point before, so maybe so) but just him lying doesn't really address the issue for me.

iirc at the beginning of chapter 3 Kokichi said he knew about Maki whole time, and he says that was a lie right after, but when you go back and look at chapter 1 that actually looks plausible.

continue this thread
load more comments (13 replies)
load more comments (1 reply)
load more comments (1 reply)

I like Kokichi a lot, inasmuch as he's highly entertaining and embodies certain game themes, but he is also, indisputably, a bad person — he brutally manipulates Gonta into becoming a weapon to kill Miu, he is openly antagonistic to many characters, he frequently disrupts both trials and investigations, etc. I don't care if he was nice to Gonta a couple times or supposedly hated killing and wanted to stop the game or whatever. Considering all the blood on his hands, I don't think he's morally gray in the slightest (at least not as he was "written" for this killing game).

I also don't really think there's much use in considering Kokichi as a puzzle we can solve. He's a provoker, a piranha in the goldfish tank. Perhaps he was meant to be argued over. What's that one line? A riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma...

A love him or hate him character it seems, you can put me firmly in the hate side because he is by far my least favourite of the V3 cast. Better than many of the DR3 anime characters, but that's not saying much...

I originally thought from the first three chapters he was going to be building up to something else closer to the character he shares an English VA with in the Baby Gangsta (Who is one of my SDR2 favourites). I'll even go as far to say Chapter 3 was the only chapter where I can say I even liked him because he was acting like a human being for most of it. I know I was a bit pissed off with him for most of Chapter 2 because of the line at the start were he's like "AWWW ARE YOU SAD CAUSE KAEDE DIED OR SOMETHING?!", though this may be a translation only problem as it might not come across as so cruel in the Japanese voice line/sentence? And besides in this instance, he got his comical comeuppance later in the chapter in the form of the insect meet and greet. I wouldn't mind him being so much of a dick to everybody if he got a little bit more light-hearted jabs back at him like that.

But no. He's just an asshole. He's a spoilt brat. He's a bully (especially to poor K1-B0). He comes across as an attention seeker. And of course he's a liar. He's all the negative traits rolled into one and I just can't find a single positive one. I know I know, there's an argument to be made for him having some selflessness with the whole "sacrificing himself to stop the game" thing, but as that plan involved sending Gonta to the gallows for a horrific execution, twisting Kaito's arm to force him to play along, and being cruel to everyone else to force them to play the game "his way". It comes across as more someone who is a control freak who was selfishly seeing everyone else as nothing more than playing pieces in his board game with the mastermind.

Of course, I don't think the boy behind Kokichi is actually like this to be fair. His brief voice snippet from the prologue showed that while he was terrified, he was still the only one who volunteered to go outside to check to see if the robot monsters were gone, which seemed brave for this kid. Otherwise, he kind of just timidly stood in the background. He's just another innocent high-schooler who seems to have been turned into a maniac by TDR. Though in his case, it was one that they quickly lost control of.

I think things would have been more interesting (for me at least) if a plot twist was Chapter 3 DID have a third death, and just like the shock Protag and ??? Talent deaths, the shock Rival death would have completely flipped the game on its head. Kokichi kind of has some elements to him that makes him come across too much as "Nagito 2.0" at times, even down to his "Chapter 5 stages his own death to make an apparently unsolvable case until the actual killer steps forward" deal. So it would have been more interesting for me to see someone completely different as a rival. "Gets away with murder because someone killed Angie first" Kiyo would be the best candidate for a truly detestable rival I feel, while if Angie has survived Chapter 3, she would have also made for a good and refreshing take on a rival candidate too. For a really off the wall suggestion, a revived "Kaede" or Rantaro would be interesting too.

Ultimately, his actions in Chapter 4 are simply too inexcusable to me to ever like him (Just tell Shuichi "No lie, I think Miu is trying to kill me" FFS). I still voted for him in Chapter 4 hoping for a split vote (But only Kaito was with me on that one I guess...). And I was relieved he was gone by the end of Chapter 5.

Ultimately, his actions in Chapter 4 are simply too inexcusable to me to ever like him (Just tell Shuichi "No lie, I think Miu is trying to kill me" FFS).

While at first glance, this option seems like the obvious answer, it's important to remember that Kokichi was extremely paranoid and suspicious of everyone else(going as far as to make his own chart regarding his thoughts on the other students in his room). Kokichi made his suspicious behavior clear all the way back in Chapter 2 where he pitted Kaito and Maki against each other in order to prove who was innocent and who was guilty. "If you know that you're not the culprit, that means the other person has to be, by process of elimination." This motto is something that Kokichi lives by throughout the game, except instead of the culprit we are focusing on the mastermind. Kokichi know that he is not the ringleader, which means that it has to be one of his classmates. Because he doesn't know which one it is, he doesn't want to risk the chance of trusting someone. And even the most optimistic and cheerful characters are driven to murder as we see with Kaede. She was playing into the mastermind's trap. This fact cripples Kokichi's chances with befriending any of the other students because he doesn't want to risk the possibility of being fooled by the mastermind which disconnects him from the rest of the group.

Fast forward now to when Kokichi finds out that Miu is planning a murder, specifically on him. Kokichi picked up on this during the flashback scene in Chapter 5 when he explained the possibility of the group collaborating to end the game only for Miu to respond by breaking down and saying that someone will eventually betray them. This, combined with her reaction to the flashback light, helped Kokichi put two and two together and deduce that Miu was planning on using the virtual world for her murder plan.

His biggest fear though wasn't that she was trying to kill him, but that Miu was planning on committing a murder in the first place. Even if Kokichi simply didn't enter the virtual world, Miu could just have easily killed someone else as a substitute. And even if he exposed Miu's murder plan to the rest of the group, there's no evidence that she was going to not to mention the fact that Kokichi is a self proclaimed liar so why would they believe him anyways? And on the slim off chance that they believe Kokichi, Miu would still murder someone else in a later time once the suspicion of her has dropped. Miu was desperate to get out of the school and her stubbornness prevents her from realizing her problem. When Miu crosses the line, in Kokichi's opinion, there was no going back and she would forever be a threat to the safety of the group. And because of Kokichi's massive paranoia with suspecting the mastermind of the group, he didn't want to make himself vulnerable to Miu by asking her not to try and murder anyone because that would be different to how he has presented himself up until now. If the mastermind was Miu(a really rare possibility at that point), she could have begun to suspect Kokichi's true intentions and potentially kill him.

This ultimately led Kokichi to the conclusion that she had to be sacrificed and had to manipulate someone into killing her. That pawn was Gonta. Kokichi was trying to make the whole event out to be something noble, but he knew that he did was simply inexcusable.

His actions are completely unjustifiable, but the circumstances behind his choice wasn't as simple as choosing from 100 options.

It's a fair enough assessment, and obviously a key part of this is that this is Kokichi's final conclusion and it's not going to be the same as someone on the outside looking in. I think there are two points to throw into consideration here though:

1) Kokichi's lack of simple options. He himself limits his own options considerably, and if anything railroads himself down a path where either he and Miu die or Miu and Gonta die. A thing to remember in Chapter 4 is that nobody actually wanted to enter Miu's virtual world. It's Kokichi himself that pushes hard for it and it is Kokichi that goes to Monokuma and asks for the specific motivation to both lure everyone inside and to persuade Gonta to help him. The simple counter to Miu's initial plan is to simply not play into it. Everybody just walks away and leaves her be, sending her spiralling back to Square One. The way Kokichi handles it can come across as two additional ways: Reactionary of the bitter kind (pushing the motivation is presented initially to the player as being a kneejerk childish reaction from being punched, and being Miu's target would also make him vengeful) or a calculated play (by this point, all of his items he needed for the takeover plan were built under the guise of being for escape as far as Miu knew. To put on the ol' tinfoil hat for a second, is it not convenient for him that he can chose an option of getting rid of the only person who can expose him by saying "Hey I made that remote" or build more EMPs to stop him?)

2) Calling out Miu actually COULD stop her doing it again, in theory at least. The nature of the game means that when you're a prime suspect it is near impossible to get away with things. Killing someone is one thing, but getting away with it is the hard part. You get one chance to kill before people are too suspicious to let you ever try again. Getting caught red handed once was enough to stop Mr Stepping Stone in DR2 from doing anything for three chapters and when he did go through with it again, it was to kill himself. You get one shot in the Killing Game so you have to make it count. If Miu had been figured out and then say three days later killed Himiko, it would effectively be suicide. Now the counter argument here is that Miu is far more impulsive than most other Danganronpa characters, so to try and maybe give her some character defence here, while she did calculate a murder, in her final moments she showed some unease in going through with it. She had no reason to be scared of Kokichi in that scenario, so her stuttering could be hesitation. Getting caught may have actually been all she needed to give up on attempting a murder as she wouldn't have a window to pull it off and get away with it again. Very speculative I know in that regards, but I think it's fair to reason that if people have a reason to suspect you, you will always be the first one to be scrutinised on every step of your alibi making pulling off escape via murder near impossible. So I think that exposing Miu to the group would be a viable plan if you have evidence to back it up.

You made a couple of really good points on the alternative to handling this situation(I don't recall most of the characters being hesitant on going to the Virtual World besides Himiko, but I could be wrong). That being said, I feel that some of these alternatives would hurt Kokichi's plan.

Besides the fact that Kokichi was trying to get a target off of him and was trying to limit the number of deaths from 8 to 2, another goal with orchestrating Miu's and Gonta's deaths was to further convey to the rest of the group that he was the ringleader himself in order to throw off the actual mastermind. He says so himself in the post trial. It was something along the lines of "Everyone...hates me....so the role of villain is perfect for me..." Him being adamant on going to the Virtual World was in order to further sell the fact that he is the one behind it all.

You are right that the others would be really suspicious and cautious of Miu's steps for a while, but that could create a huge problem. As we see with characters like Nagito and Shinguji, once they admit to doing something evil and soaking their hands with murder or the attempt of murder, the others were constantly suspicious of them and pointed fingers at them being the culprit. As we have seen already with the series, some of the culprits try to fabricate evidence or create a crime that would specifically plant suspicion on other characters. In other words, a red herring. We saw it where Kirumi hid the Ryoma's body in the piranha tank during Himiko's show and we saw it when Shinguji manipulated Himiko into selecting which room to perform the seance in(poor Himiko!). This all traces back to a new problem that Kokichi will face if he exposes Miu's murder plan: that someone will commit murder and set up Miu for the fall. Because Miu would already be under hot water, it wouldn't be a stretch for the others to suspect her considering how desperate she was to escape the place.

Oh yeah, for sure. Having an obvious suspect gives you someone that's easier to pin it on. But as you've said, that's been done in the series and every time they've all failed mainly because they tried to pin it on somebody rather than just trying to focus on clearing their own path. 1-3 is a perfect example of betting all your chips on a single target, only to have that person be cleared by your own plan and now it's you who is left with no alibi. Even the two you mention there, 3-2 would have been a perfect crime had they NOT tried to pin it on Himiko and 3-3 would have been a perfect crime had they NOT tried to do a second murder and pin it once again on Himiko (What would his accusation had been if she was the one who went under the cage instead of Tenko actually?)

While half of the group might be quick to assume the one who attempted to kill already would do it again, I have to believe the likes of Shuichi, Kokichi and K1-B0 will at least not be so quick to jump to conclusions knowing this would be something a would-be killer would try. Again, all it takes is a single piece of evidence to prove her innocent to get her out of hot water. Though I suppose Miu could use that to her own advantage to try and pull it off, but that's going in to "I know that you knew that I knew that you know" territory.

And yeah, while there are alternatives, I guess the path he took was really the only way his plan would work out. I agree with the concept of the plan (Grind the game to a halt with an "impossible" puzzle), I'm just apposed to the road to get to it as it was immoral, unwise and selfish (By sacrificing Gonta, Miu and in a way Kaito, he alone is deciding who lives and dies for his plan). While I will argue there was a better way, the better way exists in a broader scope and not in the bubble that Kokichi placed himself into.

I see Kokichi's biggest flaw is that instead of seeing the situation as himself + 14 others against the Mastermind like Kaede, Kaito and Shuichi did, he seemed to start to put himself against 15 potential Masterminds. If he was so good as seeing through lies as he said, maybe he would have been the best person to figure out who the Mastermind was... if only he bothered to get to know everybody you know?.

load more comments (1 reply)
load more comments (4 replies)

The one thing that will always bug me is that he never mentions grape panta. maybe he dyes his hair with it.

Ah yes... the naughty boy I jokingly like to refer to as "Itchy Cock Grandma" from time to time... sometimes even out of raw spite, but who knows? EHT MUYHT BEA UH LUYE!!!111!!!

In an almost too convenient event, Kokochestnut is the one character where my opinion easily changes the most and at the highest rate. It's a problem I tend to have regardless, that I just couldn't have a consistent opinion or view on something without my view altering on it just a few days at minimum right afterwards... it's not too common, but it is rather bothersome in some cases.

I guess the only consistent thing I can say about Koka Kola is that he is truly the "Mixed Bag" for me in terms of Danganronpa characters. One thing that can be made clear is that he isn't even close to being my least favorite character (that would be Junko... just in case you didn't know), yet he isn't even closely my favorite one either (that would be my boy Korekiyo)...

In an attempt to make a more comprehensible description of my feelings about Kokaine, I shall begin with what I feel are his positives (imagine that...):

First and foremost, his appearance is unsurprisingly among my favorites. His white, messy clothing, that checkered scarf of his and especially his hair, which just from first glance comes across as intimidating, yet cool. That is quite an enviable color to put in your hairstyle, and it strangely fits for a nasty boy like Koksoup. Simple as that, a creative appearance.

His sprites are quite lively as well. He's got a shitload of them, and each one is outrageous in its own way. One moment you have him being one mean poser, then the other moment he does... whatever the hell this is. And how about him ejaculating out of his eyes crying like... well, a kid. It's... quite a piece of work, I gotta say.

Then there would be his general personality, which I've come to enjoy quite a lot... when it was actually appropriate (but we'll get to that one soon, ladies). Most of the time he just messes around with everyone like a goddamn infant which heavily contrasts with his evil looks so much that it's almost hilarious. When he's being... an actual character, he gets to do quite a lot of stuff, like his entire presence in Chapter 3, particularly him faking his death like that... that was quite golden. Just from his personality outside the story I can probably see why he's a frequent favorite for DR fans...

But... that's where my positives already end, and I will now talk about his negatives, which honestly stick out far too much for his positives to make up for it...

Most importantly, the main reason I'm... really not that fond of him is his inconsistent characterization within V3. It's hard to put into words, but... he's a mess of a character in terms of writing, and Kodaka went out of his way to intend exactly that, which honestly doesn't make Kongotamagotchi look any better. Basically, if I were to describe Korkscrew's role in the story in one sentence, it would end up looking like this:

"That boy who starts off nasty, but he's actually only funny no wait he's kinda evil but wait he's just lying oh no wait he's just pissing you off no no hold on a minute he's only helping you out stop mistreating him you fags oh no nevermind he's actually super duper deluxe evil with no redeeming qualities eve- oh no wait he just wants to end the killing game and kill the mastermind and fuck this shit I'm out what is this shit"

I know this sounds like a stretch (and a mess), but this is honestly what I felt like when I watched Kookingrecipebook from beginning to end. He's all over the place, and just because Kodaka made it a point to have him be that way, that doesn't mean anything. Sloppy writing is sloppy, intentionally or not.

I genuinely can't see where all these comparisons to Nagito (Naggeytoe) come from... Nagito had an actual consistent character arc, his slide into complete insanity is gradual and wonderfully presented, it was really only a matter of time when he would break for good.

Kokichihcikok just starts off as merely irritating, does one thing to make himself look evil, only to suddenly be completely helpful another time, only to become irredeemably super-duper-deluxe-maxi-size evil, and at the very end "reveals" himself to... want to end the killing game (?). It's about as subtle as a shotgun up someone's rectum, and if I have not even the tiniest idea of what to even think of him, then I just don't give a shit.

Another negative point towards him would have to be how the other characters act towards him. I know this might seem like an illegitimate point to make about a character, but here it's just another aspect of how idiotically written Kookieklicker's entire arc (or lack thereof) really is. It's a similiar problem I often have with Hiyoko's character in SDR2's story, in that no one says anything when she shits on Mikan all the damn time, which just becomes irritating.

The problem here with Krokodilechi specifically is that the other characters take him far too seriously. I mean... I don't even need to mention how often the others constantly get annoyed when he... HOLY SHIT, lies (!!11!!!!!1111!!!!!!!111!!!!) as if it's a shocking surprise. He falsely confesses to being Angies's murderer... and after Shuichi goes out of his way to disprove that Konceptually Incorrect did it, everyone's like "YOU PIECE OF SHIT, YOU LIED AGAIN??!!?!?!?!????!".

TA BI CONTINGLEGLUED

PART DEUX

It's quite bad, but this is nothing compared to everyone just taking his word that he's the mastermind... even Maki, who you'd think would know better than to trust someone like Koffeewithoutsugarplease... but then again, she does keep saying Do You Want To Die?™ all the fucking time for no reason, so all bets are off... Regardless, this is idiotic writing I would only see in some twelve year old's edgy story whose edgy main character is taken far too seriously for their own good.

If the goddamn players can detect Kongdonkeykong's constant lying without any effort, then you know that Shuichi isn't as smart as he probably thinks he is... he probably doesn't think that anyways, he is the main character after all, so naturally he needs confidence issues and... ok, I will stop.

This next one can't be marked as a flaw in itself, but I just want to say how much I despised his entire role in Chapter 4. Back in the discussion threads for Gonta and Kaito, I noted that these two were, in my eyes, the best things about this chapter. Kaito had his entire philosophy of easily having faith in someone taken to the logical conclusion, and Gonta was... Gonta.

But Koalharbor just ruined this entire chapter for me. His plan to kill Miu was incredibly dumb and so blatantly premeditated, there's no way Kodaka can tell me that "he's actually good inside and just wants to end the game" and that "it was self-defense because Miu wanted to kill HIM first!!!". It makes no sense, and all it does is present to me yet another example of how inconsistently written he is. Naturally he would choose Gonta as his pawn, and it's only obvious that only Gonta would take the fall... I mean, this is Chapter 4 after all. What better way to piss off everyone around him than to... well, piss off everyone around him.

He would do annoying bullshit like "piss off" Shuichi because he dared to lie directly to Kobe Bryant about him actually "not" being in the salon... or something. That one tiny lie somehow managed to piss him off already so he just outright reveals that he worked with Monokuma (somehow) and that "the culrpit is Gonta"... although I will admit, the way he revealed Gonta's guilt like that was quite awesome... it was so sudden and unexpected, along with that sprite of his. Top notch, for once.

It all comes down to him asking the others "Why do you hate lies so much?"... yeah, why is that, Koatedinchocolatesyrup? Could it be because they just waste everyone's time and unnecessarily make things even more irritating? Who would've guessed that?

He was... just shit, and watered down the entire experience. It's not too different from SDR2's Chapter 3 being ruined because the BullshitDespair Disease had to be a thing, and without it, Mikan breaking down like she did would've actually been fucking awesome.

You know what? I would have liked this chapter much, MUCH more if it turned out that what Konchshell showed to everyone in the "Death Road of Despair" was the thing that made Gonta ready to murder someone instead of what was apparently shown inside the virtual world, something that Kooperationisamyth wouldn't have seen coming... if the chapter would have simply been rearranged around that scenario, it would have been much more shocking to reveal Gonta as the culrpit... but then again not, because this is Chapter 4, and Kodaka is an uncreative bum. But seriously... that would have been a better shocking experience than what we got here with Kokinmyass just annoying the hell out of everyone.

Also, apparently he just dodges Kaito's punch at the end and then... punches him back, because god forbid Kolossalbutt ever getting some karma... even a little bit. Oh, but wait! Shuichi actually does give him a... lesson in friendship(?!). Yeah... Kodaka did everything to make Kaktusupyourarse completely untouchable no matter what you do... always a sign of a good character, especially a villainous one at that.

And Chapter 5 has him orchestrating a perfect murder plan with Kaito's cooperation, so he basically still gets the last laugh even if he's dead... but don't worry, Kodaka is trying to tell us that Kodakichi is actually a good guy all along!!! He can now be automatically forgiven for all the dead cow diarrhea (bascially Junko) he put everyone through.

At least he died in a hilarious way, so there's some joy in that after all...

Yeah... I got nothing anymore. In the end, I either don't hate or can't stand Kookfuckthisshit. It's one way or another... I can enjoy him when the story doesn't feel like putting him in a major spotlight, but once it does, it's... not so good, if you can't tell. I will say though that the very fact that I'm at all conflicted about what the hell I'm even supposed to think of him by the end of this story is actually the critical flaw itself... if I can't even have a solid opinion on a character like this for even a second, then they're automatically shit to me.

This is my favorite post solely because of all variations of Kokichi's name you made

load more comments (1 reply)

You know what? I could write out an extremely long essay to try and give my interpretation of this character, but I think Shuichi's words on Kokichi in-game can say it better than I ever could.

"A lie... or the truth? Even now at the very end, I really don't understand Kokichi... But maybe that's what lying is all about. The truth is in the eye of the beholder, huh? Kokichi... was the very embodiment of a lie."

Since more than likely other people in this thread will say my thoughts on the character much better than I could, I'll just leave one thing that I believe hasn't been said yet. I think Kokichi is a novel character idea that explores that fine line between truth and lies quite well. At the end of the day, there are so many interpretations of this character you can have, that there is no specific one I believe the majority would agree with. To create a character that people are so insanely divided about, I think is pretty unique, and regardless of whether you like him or not, I think the developers came up with a very original idea for a character and that I can appreciate.

Oh yeah also 10/10 voice acting for both sub and dub. Derek's performance really brought the character to life. You can feel how animated and eccentric the character is, just by listening to a couple minutes of his va. Sub is also extremely good and brings out Kokichi's more childish and mischievous attitude well.

tl:dr I think Kokichi is a very novel character, and the fact there are so many interpretations of him I think fits really well with the game's themes and makes for a unique character.

At the risk of sounding like a normie, I'll admit that Kokichi is my V3 fave and I probably wouldn't have enjoyed the game as much without the guy.

Before going into V3, I was prepared to dislike him after finding out that he was both the bully and the perpetual liar, filling in two character archetypes that I not only actively dislike irl (Especially the bully stereotype which I hate even in fiction. It sticks a little too close to home for me. I don't mind the trickster types as much because they're less realistic...if that makes sense) but also have soured my previous experiences with other media (looking at you, BHnA). V3 doesn't handle these stereotypes particularly well either (he can get pretty annoying and this may be an understatement) but I feel Kokichi is entertaining in spite of these traits and I always appreciate a character who I grow to like despite embodying stereotypes I'm not too fond of.

It helps that the story doesn't paint him in a heroic light but mostly as a villain and this may probably be my favourite part about him: that from the beginning, Kokichi acts unabashedly like a villain which makes him such a fun character for me. And not just any villain but the evil supreme leader he consistently claims to be, his own childish idea of what it means to be a 'villain' not unlike those you see in Saturday morning cartoons (is this still a thing?) complete with a henchman (Gonta), 'secret lairs' (Gonta's Lab, his room and his own Lab), and convoluted plans doomed to fail. To me, his whole arc somewhat resembles a compressed villain arc: starting off seemingly harmless and more of an annoyance but slowly growing into a dangerous threat, revealing hints that he knows more than he lets on with each of his plans escalating in scale. Finally, all this culminates into his MASTER PLAN, leading to his downfall and eventual sacrifice with the reveal that his goals may have not been so different from the protagonists after all. During the first half, I loved him for being this childish idea of 'evil'. I was rooting for him then but I didn't mind if he failed because that was his role and he was entertaining regardless. The whole Insect Meet and Greet was a riot from start to finish and knowing Kokichi got his just desserts was a great pay-off. And having that Kaito indirectly acknowledged that Kokichi may have had the right idea was the icing of the cake. Not only did it foreshadow their eventual Chapter 5 matchup but it showed that Kokichi's actions somewhat made sense. That event was probably the moment I really started paying attention to Kokichi. It was at that moment I felt my biggest pre-release worry was lifted, the worry that V3 would need a Komaeda. Sure, V3 still stuck with the rival character cliche and Kokichi's more Komaeda than Byakuya but the puny supreme overload had his own way of doing things: he made most of his scenes entertaining in a comical way (at least to me), no matter what his overarching goals turn out to be. I would have probably hated everything about the 5th trial if it wasn't for him putting on such a show and making it tone of the funniest trial. I guess Kokichi sees comedy even in his death. I'm willing to put aside the ridiculous factor of the script just because the trial was so damn entertaining. While Chapter 4 was an exception with the implications being downright depressing, I personally think that Kokichi did make the trial a whole lot more interesting than it could have been...unfortunately, this was the turn in his character that I was hoping wouldn't happen. I didn't realise it at first because the similarities wasn't as obvious in V3-4 but this was when Kokichi started to become Komaeda.

I was so hopeful that it wouldn't happen but unfortunately it did. By Chapter 5, I couldn't help but groaned every time more of his plan was uncovered. To me, V3-5 was the 'Can I copy your homework?' meme, following the formula of DR2-5 so closely up to the point it needed the rival character to be shoved into the Komaeda role. And once Kokichi embraced this role, the chapter became so predictable for me that I had to resist the temptation to give him and Kaito the Death Flags I bought from the casino. First, he disappeared at the beginning of the chapter, only revealing himself to start off his plot and present weapons that included bombs (but this time, miniature ones and they disable electromagnetic forces or something I'm not bothered to remember...what is with DR and bombs). Then, came his murder plan which he ofc masterminded himself ... I'll give it props for involving a cooperation between the blackened and victim but Kokichi already masterminded a murder. I didn't really need to be shown this again.

For all the things I liked about V3-5, I just can't help but dislike the chapter for shoving Kokichi into the Komaeda role and as a result, playing very similarly to SDR2-5. As I've probably mentioned, I was desperately begging for Maki... hell, even Kokichi to be the culprit, just hoping for there to be at least a slight twist in the formula. This 'Komaeda' problem also continues a bit after Chapter 6 where Kokichi remains relevant even after his death, scattering clues of the underlying mystery and even leaving a password for the others to use in a way Komaeda did (both also involve a video on a laptop if I'm remembering correctly: Komaeda's password was revealed in the video while Kokichi's one reveals the video. Wow, the callbacks in V3 are even less subtle than...SDR2). (Note: I'm actually really iffy about Kokichi leaving the code because like how is he supposed to know? Me and my sis kinda theorised that it was Rantarou who left it and Kokichi just hid it by adding more letters. 'The world is mine. Kokichi Oma' reveal was awesome though).

Nevertheless, all of Kokichi's Komaeda-isms doesn't make him any less my favourite and I easily rank him among my Top 3 DR faves. I appreciate the effort put in creating his character even if it can seem that the writers try a bit too hard to make him embody the 'lies' theme. He's damn entertaining despite his flaws and he'll always a special place in my heart for being the first V3 meme I made...I still remember the days I ship him with Panta and claim that he's the Ultimate Code Geass fondly sniffs. In Kokichi's own words, he 'lies to entertain people' and I feel that's probably one of the most truthful words that came out of his lying mouth.

And for the record, Kokichi did everything wrong.

It helps that the story doesn't paint him in a heroic light but mostly as a villain and this may probably be my favourite part about him: that from the beginning, Kokichi acts unabashedly like a villain which makes him such a fun character for me.

see, i wish he were more overtly villainous than he is. i feel like the game took too many steps toward redeeming him at the end (as it did with all of its murderers but korekiyo and tsumugi, to be fair) and i thought he was too deep into the weeds for redemption. i have my issues with nagito, for sure, but i never felt like the game actively expected me to sympathize with him at any point.

I kinda agree. Even though I'm more lenient towards it as I interpret it as part of the villain redemption arc and he's also my favourite, it still felt that what the writers did with Kokichi's arc was them having their cake and eating it. It's like they didn't want Kokichi to seem too evil so just quickly came up with a forced reason to justify his actions near the end when throughout the game there isn't much that redeems Kokichi. I actually don't remember Komaeda and Togami getting much 'redemption' in their origin games and as you said, the game doesn't actively try to sympathise them (one remains an asshole til the end, the other crazy) but even they had more justifications for their actions and unlike with Kokichi, I understand the reasons for their actions (not that I agree with them) by the end of everything.

Kokichi is my favorite character in the series, but it's worth noting that he's sort of touchstone or prism character who only really shines in the context of the other characters.

In particular, there's an Id, Ego, Supergo relationship (at least IMO) between Kokichi, Shuichi and Kaito respectively. Kaito and Kokichi are opposed because, at first glance, it seems Kokichi is the character of deceit, suspicion, and lies where as Kaito is the character of trust, belief and truth. Shuichi's role is to find the truth as the ultimate detective and thus is opposed the Kokichi and sided with Kaito.

However, thematically throughout the trials, it becomes clear that Kokichi isn't necessarily a characterization of lies, but rather a characterization of cynicism. As a trickster, Kockichi doesn't trust anyone and advocates throughout the class trials for more scrunity. Kaito instead encourages everyone to trust each other.

Pessimism versus optimism Selfishness versus altruism Cunning versus navitee

However you want to frame it, the two are constantly fighting for "control" of Shuichi and Trial 4 is that showdown, with Kokichi manufacturing something so diabolical it's beyond everyone else but Shuichi and Keebo's belief.

The other great thing about Kokichi is how he is open to being read. That's what i love about this. Kokichi can kind of be whatever you want him to be, because he's the living lie. He even monologues during a trial about the beauty of lies being that there are endless possibilities for them, but only one truth. Kokichi himself is the embodiment of that as you can affix hero, villain, or anything in between to him.

We never find out Kokichi's truth and that means that we can read whatever we want about him. That makes him not much of a character on his own. However when he interacts with other characters we learn a lot about those characters.

The player themselves included.

Starting out, Kokichi comes off as nonchalant, to say the least. He's energetic, kind of happy, but lies with a smile on his face on a whim, and exhibits a sinister, manipulative nature when no one expects it. I'll be honest, even considering the potential he holds, I don't think I can like him at all taken as a whole.

The first issue I notice with him is part of a trend that's come about in DR games, one that the writers aren't doing ironically this time. In the first DR, we had Kyoko, being very on the ball about the investigation, usually calm, collected, and with a clear idea of the direction a trial will take. This could sometimes be annoying, but it wasn't very overbearing and made sense. Byakuya acted like this at times, but he could get caught off guard as much as Makoto. For DR2, Komaeda pretty much did anything he wanted without repercussions, and was clearly smarter than anyone else. He was always ahead of Hajime, usually leading him on when he was around, and was somehow able to game his luck perfectly to pull of one of the most elaborate murders in the series. Chiaki was also extremely smart, calm, collected, and felt like she knew where things were going. Then we have Kokichi who is usually on the on the ball, very intelligent, and practically a mastermind in his own right based on how the game wants us to interpret him.

I've noticed that there tends to be a set male and female that the lead partners up with to help him in verying ways, a girl being positive, and the boy being negative. Kaeda feels like the positive aspect, and while V3 shakes things up with her death, Kokichi definitely feels like a troublemaker, ever when he can provide help. It's not a terrible trope, but I feel like Kokichi fits in with Komaeda and Chiaki who could be obnoxious with how well they could handle the killing game as a whole. as for how that happens...

Throughout the game, there are many things that Kokichi does that annoys me, but the two biggest ones were the lies, and just how he acted around people.For the former, most of the time, the lies held no purpose, and just felt like he was trying to throw people off kilter. This also reflects V3's hatred of giving straight answers, since Kokichi constantly gives himself an out from what he says, rather than really commit to anything. Other than that, Kokichi could just be such an insufferable brat sometimes. He acts more like a five year old who ate too much sugar, rather than some brilliant leader of any sort of organization.

Another issue is how the game presents his intelligence. Outside of trials, Kokichi's plans mostly don't feel very smart. What he decides to steal the motive videos in chapter 2, he blatantly tells everyone about this, after leaving Gonta alone to torment them for two hours, making it a plan that only worked because Gonta was just that stupid. After that, his next big plan in chapter 4 once again relies on both Gonta being stupid and listening to his orders blindly again, and Miu being just as dumb with how limited he virtual world actually was. His last plan in chapter 5 was kind of clever, but is insanely risky on its own has certain logic holes if you think too much about it. Why did he let the remote for the Exisals get crushed with his body? When did he have time to give Kaito some big script?

For the most part, Kokcihi's events don't rely on intelligence, since anyone can outsmart the dumbest people in the room-you just have to be more cutthroat than most to do something as bas as what he does.

As for Kokichi's overall morality, and narrative value... this if where things get the most muddy, and it honestly feels like many people's views, good or bad, come more from personal interpretation of the character. This is the ultimate problem with Kokichi, and by extension V3 as a whole, the lack of any real clarity. Neither wants to give a speck of truth about their intentions, constantly misleading and lying to people, to the point that there's nothing you can believe. How can I get a clear picture of who Kokichi is in my head, when not only the character, but the game itself seems intent on hiding it from me?

To the games credit, I do think that Kokichi's horrible actions from chapter 4 onward are from him losing his mind, similar to Gonta, but that's just an idea I got from Kaito's lines about him, and it doesn't excuse the fact that Miu and Gonta died because of him, or the fact that he used the Exisals to terrify the students, rather than use them to tear apart the school and find a way out.

Originally, I was going to be way harsher on Kokichi, but now, I'm sadly indifferent to him. He feels more like a character concept than an actual character (hammered in connection to the 'Lies' part of the theme, rough attempts to show off his intelligence, general vagueness), which bugs me the most when I read how other people view him. I want to see the deep, compelling and controversial character that's at the top of many people's favorites list, but to me, there's not even enough to him to dislike these days.

part 1

Hmm... what a messy character, I still don't think that mixing "agent of chaos" and "well intentioned extremist" tropes is a good idea, but it worked. To explain why do I think those two tropes blended well, I guess I have to explain how do I see this character, huh ?

I want to clarify that Cockichi is not a particulary nice guy, he can show care for others but it's always a little verbal warning or something else that doesn't cost him anything. Even those things occur if you confront him first. He warns Kaede of her ways, sure, but not in the course of the main story but only when she just happened to talk to him. He doesn't care for his fellow classmates much, he simply doesn't want them to die, to watch them die. That's a pretty bare minimum. Also his way of being, god is he not a complete asshole. He hurts others feelings pretty carelessly (see his comment about Schuichi taking of his hat, also it's quite hypocritical since he doesn't enjoy others insulting him), and on his way to find the truth he really is out for blood. There is a difference between clarifying whats important and suspecting others where it's necessary. Kirumi for example suspects Gonta in ch1 and lays out a lot of facts that suggest he could be a murderer, but after Gonta was proved innocent she apologized almost immediately, hell Korekiyo makes a remark about not wanting to accuse Gonta but having to do so. Ouma not only accuses the others but also wants to do that, he totally finds pleasure in proving others guilty. It probably has to do with a fact how much he dislikes murderers and killings.

I also dislike when people say that Ouma is "paranoid" or has "intense trust issues" and put that as a main explanation to his actions. (Overall I greatly dislike putting mental issues as a explanation to problematic characters, plus we already have Komaeda.) What does a "paranoid" person look like to you ? Maybe like Toko ? Or maybe like a guy who willingfully works with a certain inventor commissioning her to do a lot of dangerous stuff that relate to his final plan in a way that allows Miu to know a chunk of it and cooperates with the Gentle Giant™ since like, chapter 2. Him not trusting the rest of the cast all that much (in all honesty he never shows to be extremely distrusting of others, for example he throws hints and advices at Schuichi almost constantly, if anything he shows a lot of disdain for Maki after the "reveal" and for Kaito as he doesn't like his way of thinking) is a rational, logical thing rather than some mental issues. Reminds me of that scene when he says that if you know you are not the culprit someone else must be. Also I like his big speech about how a trial class should be like, (here I feel a need to mention just how good Derek Prince is, hell, he didn't do a thing for me as Fuyuhiko but totally shined here) it shows his thought pattern rather well and establishes one crucial thing - he is not a perfect thinker, his philosophy has flaws that can be easily found. Ouma is fairly arrogant, considers himself to be the smartest and is blinded enough to not notice imperfections in his ways.

His logic towards other students is the same in regards to the mastermind, i.e. he knows he is not the mm so someone else is, (overall his assurance of mm's existence is a huge factor in his character and it's quite infuriating that we don't know what made him so sure of their existence lol) cooperating with everyone means cooperating with the mastermind so he avoids that. He just picked 2 (arguably 3) people that he saw potential allies in and entrusted them enough to work with them only. Obviously none of them knew what Cockichi was up to but still, Ouma needed some basic level of trust to act like that. Interestingly enough quite an amount of stuff in his plans revolves around others, their typical behavior and actions especially. Overall I think some people downplay his jerkiness a lot. He is, he really is a complete jerk and he knows it.

I loved how in the earlier chapters he just doesn't buy killers bullshit. Especially his attitude towards Korekiyo was awesome: "So you decided to slaughter a bunch ?!" This and him pointing out Kirumi's manipulations show that he genuinely hates murder.

Him not trusting the rest of the cast all that much (in all honesty he never shows to be extremely distrusting of others, for example he throws hints and advices at Schuichi almost constantl.,

I think his trust issues within the V3 group are highlighted by the fact that he never once opened himself to someone, not even in his FTEs.

The white board in his room points only Shuichi as someone who could he trustworthy and even so, it had a "?" to show that he wasn't entirely sure about that. That's why I think his lies are mostly a defense mechanism for him.

load more comments (1 reply)

All I'm gonna say now is that I think Kokichi is a good character and while he did terrible things he had good intentions by the end. I find him to be interesting due to the fact that he is an alternate way to get to an answer besides the classic way of getting to a conclusion. I like his interactions with Shuichi due to their dynamic and it's my favorite ship in DR. I honestly felt sad at the fact that Kokichi died and I wish he lived. Not from a writing perspective but from a human perspective. Kokichi is a character that I genuinely love and wish him all the happiness.

I know I said I wouldn't participate in this but whatever:

I don't have too much to say about Kokichi that hasn't already been said. He's got a great design, great voice acting, he's hilarious and very interesting, easily the best character in the game. Just wished he survived the game I mean c'mon it would've been great if the guy who is about lies finds out his whole existence is basically a lie in trial 6.

I'm confused about why people think that Kokichi telling Shuichi that Miu was planning to kill him is guaranteed to work when Shuichi barely trusts Kokichi.

Mayhe Kokichi could've got Shuichi to do something like follow him in the virtual world (assuming Shuichi believes him) and catch Miu in the act but that's far too risky to do considering Kokichi doesn't know exactly how the virtual world works, for all he knows Miu had to say "Kokichi Oma dies" and he'd be dead.

And refusing to go into the virtual world doesn't immediately remove Miu's desire to kill (so she could still attempt murder later) and if everyone else goes in then they could be killed by Miu instead because again, Kokichi doesn't know exactly how the virtual word works.

it's not a perfect solution because kokichi is so full of shit that any explosive statement he makes is bound to be treated with suspicion, but:

1) even if kokichi is largely regarded as unreliable, the cast tends to give his proclamations a lot of gravity anyway. his entire plan in chapter five relies on them taking him at face value even though they know better, which they do.

2) miu is probably the next most ostracized member of the cast after kokichi. they might not give his claim credence if he said it about, say, kaito, but i feel like they'd be inclined to consider an accusation against miu since they don't like her much anyway.

3) like i said upthread, miu's a bit of a coward in that she only seems inclined to kill in a situation where she has total control of all the variables. i'm not actually sure whether she'd attempt a murder in the real world. as for whether she'd kill someone else in the virtual world, toss-up -- she specifically put a whammy on kokichi's avatar due to the abovementioned cowardice and i don't know if she'd have the balls to make an attempt on anyone else with an even playing field -- though i accept your point that kokichi couldn't realistically have known that in advance.

in any case, if kokichi outed miu, he wouldn't need unanimous support, just to sow enough doubt to keep people out of the neo world program. although i never saw why they went in to begin with, since it was so obviously a trap from about eight different angles, so they're probably stupid enough to go in anyway.

I'm confused about why people think that Kokichi telling Shuichi that Miu was planning to kill him is guaranteed to work when Shuichi barely trusts Kokichi.

I believe this works because I think of all the characters, Shuichi is the one who actually would at least look into it and take it seriously. Perhaps K1-B0 too, but Shuichi is the only near certainty. Of course a Himiko or Kaito would just roll their eyes and go "Stop lying". But Shuichi's entire thing after Kaede's push is to "be rational and find the truth, even if the truth hurts me again". If Kokichi comes up to him and seriously claims "I think Miu might be trying to kill me", Shuichi would be inclined to investigate as ignoring it and finding Kokichi dead the next day would only bring him despair for "being an awful detective who doesn't help people who need him" or something to that effect. And when Miu is outed as a potential killer, the spotlight she places on herself means pulling off a murder AND getting away with it becomes near impossible, serving as a deterrent from her trying again.

The only reason Kokichi would have to not believe Shuichi could help is if he believes Shuichi to be the mastermind. Which... probably would be the case. It's a fair enough reason for Kokichi as he doesn't seem to trust anyone (Aside from maybe Gonta to a degree), but gosh it's frustrating to see it play out that way.

Adding to this, i can't be asked to believe that he couldn't go to Monotaro or someone and get the profile on the NWP to discover there's still a weapon in it.

The Monokubs can't help the participants. Monotaro only did so because his "mother" died.

Not in the mood for an essay so I'll keep this concise: I love Kokichi, I feel like he embodies V3's theme in a way that isn't hamfisted, found him entertaining throughout the whole game, and find him interesting for how ambiguous most of his dialogue is. He's not evil or good, nor black or white like his colour scheme suggests - he's a gray somewhere in the middle. His interactions with everyone are fun, especially his rivalry with Kaito. And unlike Tsumugi, I don't think his character suffers too much from things not being clarified.

Plus he's cute <3

Another cute boy! Maybe even the second cutest boy!

Kokichi is one of the objective best characters in the series. Derek Stephen Prince gives one of his best performances ever in the role, and his nuance and ambiguity as a character perfectly embody Danganronpa, he's just brilliant and fits right in.

And all of that...is why I'm a little depressed I don't like him more.

This is PURELY a personal viewpoint, but small factors kept Kokichi from being one of my big time favorites. First off...Chapter 4. That was kind of a point of no return. Gonta and Miu were my two favorite characters at that point, and Kokichi's trickery and just total control of the situation cut both of their arcs short and gave both endings I really wasn't overly happy with to be honest. After all the hoops the writers went through to make the likes of Kirumi sympathetic and motivated to murder, Miu's attempt to kill and subsequent death just felt meaningless. Gonta's far less so, but still just a little cheap that something so out of his control did him in. This isn't to say Kokichi's survival and success was unearned, it was just a very sensitive trial for me.

Then Chapter 5 came, and to be honest...I couldn't help but think "This is just a not as good version of DR2 Chapter 5." I just felt Kokichi's attempt at an unsolvable murder didn't hold a candle to the dread and panic caused by Nagito's. Again, this isn't to say it was BAD by any means, I just felt it relied on some...contrivances. Of COURSE the exisal has a VOICE CHANGER. OF COURSE the footage wasn't doctored but a there's a seamless pause button.

Once more, I can't understate that Kokichi is a brilliantly written character who challenges the ideals of the franchise and embodies one of the series' core concepts, lying, in a way that's both endearing and a bit heartbreaking. He just wound up with some unfortunate associations for me personally.

He is one of the best written characters in V3 and perhaps one of the best characters of the series as a whole IMO.

Kokichi, as the game itself puts, really was the embodiment of a lie and as such, there are multiple possibilties of interpretation for his character. Was he a selfish antagonist who just wanted to win the game? Was he a anti-hero who legitimately wanted to end the game and save the others? Was he really saddened by Gonta's death? People can argue about that as much as they want but that is still shrouded in mystery

The ambiguity that keeps following his character and his actions is something that keeps the player guessing and it's quite unique for a rival character since the rival character of prior games always had a pretty clear cut objective and methods. Of course by the ending of the game we learn more about him (which still not enough to make him less of a mystery) and the things we actually learn about him are enough to reinforce one specific interpretation of his character: that all of his issues with lying are actually a defense mechanism to make him avoid dealing with the harsh truth, he could dish them out but he couldn't take them and that problem that he had with the truth (together with his lack of belief in others) is what caused him to create the convoluted plan we saw in chapter 5.

What am I doing with my life

Since going into everything at once would be way too much and I have a game to play, my plan is to do this: I'll expand on one thing, and depending on how that's received it'll tell me whether it's worth going more into detail.

With that said, part 1 is none other than this: Kokichi Ouma is two people!

To start with, let me tell you that I've always suspected something was off about him because for one, look at how odd he is. The official art (Used in the report card too) has him looking sinister and he's lacking a scarf there, while his artbook design shows him with a calm and gentle smile along with the scarf and symbol.

https://imgur.com/a/EyZvVwr <- Also, look here: Everyone's outfits looks exactly the same as the ones in their pictures in the funeral scene but can you see that Kokichi's scarf peeks out when he's wearing the cape and hat? If you're still doubting me look at this: https://imgur.com/a/zm1tupD
Why would Kokichi end up like that if he's that powerful?

There's more I could go into like how the one you talk to likes tea and never drinks carbonated drinks, the deal with 'King', 'Horse' and 'Twins' and the twin horses in the Love Hotel but come on now, that's already saying too much, figure it out yourselves!

Edit: Also, you know who you are- I would tear your arguments to pieces if you were worth arguing with.

Wait, how can you be sure the official art is different?

Because it's different. For good measure even the super secret Discord channel I'm in took the trouble to measure Kokichi's scarf and that scarf is pretty much always at the same height so the only reason the official art Kokichi would be missing a scarf would be if he's not wearing any at all.

Really? Because I was thinking is the cape and he's wearing both...Well, I don't know because I never wore a scarf and a cape together buuuuuuuuuut, it's not the art?

Nope. That's also why Kodaka asked us to replay the prologue I think and why chapter 6's trial makes a big deal about things looking the same when they're different because once you know who Kokichi actually is (That is, NOT the guy you're talking to but the true mastermind behind Monokuma) that busts the truth wide open.

Not only he tweeted before the players beat the game but he want us to say 'No, that's wrong!' in that chapter since most Tsumugi's words are lies. Sorry for ask but there's more evidence if the 'Ouma' we're saw in the game is the imposter and the mastermind is Ouma besides of the horse twin and the love hotel?

The meta- There's always a reveal in chapter 5 that someone was pretending to be someone else, and if you look at his FTEs you can see Kokichi acting strangely- For example, coughing lightly when he calls himself the Supreme Leader before saying he's a pacifist, or thanking Shuichi politely before acting like himself again when Shuichi bandages his finger.

Besides this, Kokichi is the only one who behaves inconsistently between the two prologues and there's a cheeky detail you'd miss unless you're super suspicious- He's the last ??? to speak in the first prologue, so you're easily misled into thinking that his name has to be consistent but that's not true at all as he's a combination of Mukuro and Twogami in that he has no name left and he's also related to the mastermind.

WHAT THE FUCK IS THIS.

Just Skygd's big, crazy Kokichi theory. It's not worth it to try to understand it, it's completely retarded and jumps to conclusions so hard that it would get Olympic gold.

Mukuro because she's her sister and Twogami because he's remmant of despair...So, 'Ouma' is related with the true mastermind. I see but I have to ask, why 'Ouma' in the prologue is different? He's confused like the cast except Amami since he knows what's up, he was brainwhashed or...? And hte black-out light exists when the fake memorie shows up to us?

I see but I have to ask, why 'Ouma' in the prologue is different? He's confused like the cast except Amami since he knows what's up, he was brainwhashed or...?

No, he had no idea what 'sealed talents' was about which is an actual red flag as no one addresses that but him IIRC (And if you look at his first FTE he says Kaede erased him from her memories).

And hte black-out light exists when the fake memorie shows up to us?

It doesn't exist. That only appears in their 'memories' and it's well within TDR's means to reconstruct fake scenes considering they can get actors that can fake Makoto and Hinata well enough to fool even the player.

Oh, wow. So...How did they forget the first prologue? Any hint in the game?

continue this thread

You dare not even mention the sixth finger, how dare you.

load more comments (1 reply)

Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image

https://i.imgur.com/TvZVqkP.png

Source | Why? | Creator | ignoreme | deletthis

Its a lie! :D

I really have nothing to say about Kokichi, but he's really fun to voice.

Derek must've really had fun voicing him just as much as I did.

yes i voice act for fun dont ask

A "Love to Hate" character well-done, but I'm still not fond of these types of characters. However, Kokichi's manipulations were easily of the strongest points in the plot. Still, I can't believe Hiro Shimono (a seiyuu well known for voicing unlucky but nice characters nonetheless) would end as Kokichi's VA.

DEMON, BE EXPELLED!

"Writes paragraphs of praise on the design of Kokichi's character" "Concludes by saying Kokichi is the best character in all of danganronpa"

Well flair seems to check out.

Also has some great sprites, I love the shifts in mood, he is much more expressive then other characters. He looks genuinely hurt when crying, poor Kokichi.

My summary of Kokichi will depend on what I interpret to be his actions during the course of the game. I realise my interpretation may be contentious.

I think Kokich starts off quite normally. He thinks that people are going to pick up the tricks that V3 is running on.

He specifically points out a lot of hard truths, about people's motivations and actions. But his foolish nature and laughing allows him to play it off as pranks.

He seems quite helpful, and somewhat cruel to a fault in exposing deceit. But his act means that it always feels possible that he is lying about everything he says. He seemed especially upset with Angie, and the fact that people were giving up the idea of escape, and sinking into lies that felt good.

But I think he sees that his actions aren't getting through. He seems to get more annoyed at people as the game goes on, and as more people die.

This reminds me of a specific point made in Danganronpa 1, I believe. The characters early on accept the fact that doubting others leads to trust, as the truth is revealed. That it is ok to doubt others. This is an explicit point that is made.

But the group in V3 barely do this. Shuichi feels very reticent to accuse people. Kokichi ends up being the person applying the pressure. Kokichi doesn't seem to know who the culprit is, except when he is in charge of selecting the culprit in Chapter 4 and 5. He doesn't appear to know anything more than anyone else. He isn't hinting at any point. But he does push people who are suspicious. This suspicion is based on what is happening in the trial at that point. He doesn't lead the trial. Shuichi still does that. But Kokichi pipes in and accuses people when Shuichi won't. He applies the doubt that Shuichi is fearful of applying, in case it leads to a truth he doesn't want to look at. Kaede also made the same point, that he has to look for the truth, no matter where it leads.

By chapter 4, Kokichi has stopped stating uncomfortable truths. He just uses the lies everyone was believing at that point. Everybody thought the flashback lights were real, so Kokichi used that lie against everyone. Kokichi knew the flashback lights couldn't be real, if they indicated that there was no audience. The rules of the game, and the pendantry that Monokuma displayed in enforcing the rules meant that there had to be some kind of stakes applied externally to Monokuma's, and the mastermind's, behaviour. So Kokichi knew that when he said everyone was dead outside, that this couldn't be true. But other people believed it was possible. He then made new lies in chapter 5, about him being the mastermind.

I supposes there is a degree to which Kokichi was asking the others to doubt him. He would say some untrue things, and I believe, wait to see if anybody would pick up on them. But nobody particularly tried. This would make sense in relation to his previous life as a member of DICE. They are people who play pranks, but do nothing dangerous to anybody. They wear straight-jackets, to indicate their being outside the norms of society. The reason a smart person plays a fool is so they can say true things infront of people who might punish them, and get away with it by making it seem like a joke. And they say them in ways that people who put in the effort pick up the message. Kokichi is playing in front of the mastermind, and an audience. So he wants to be able to say true things, without getting targeted by the mastermind or audience. This foolish behaviour, to work effectively at passing on the truth, requires others to take him on, pick up on his lies, and realise what things are true and which are lies. The point is to hide truth in the lies. Outright lying isn't very useful, or fun. It's much more fun and useful to basically tell the truth, but still trick people. It takes more skill, that's why its more fun. Kokichi wants others to doubt him, because doubt leads to truth. I think that if somebody was more proactive in taking on Kokichi's lies, then Kokich would try to work with them. Because he would know that person was trying to survive, and they would try to properly seek the truth.

Just as fiction is more fun and useful when it has enough truth to bring that truth into greater relief, by having the lies around it serve the truth. Fiction, at its best, is lying to reveal the truth. Fiction is basically lies that tell the truth.

I think that was Kokichi was trying to instill doubt, and to point out things that nobody wanted to accept. But he decided to transition to straight lies starting in chapter 4, because nobody seemed willing to take him on and try to doubt him properly. Which meant he wasn't really able to trust anybody. It looks like he was starting to think Shuichi could be trustworthy, according to the whiteboard in his room. And this would be because Shuichi was accepting doubt, and starting to seek the truth. This was situations like where Shuichi accepted the role of accusing Gonta in the trial. It's not clear when he wrote it, but Shuichi slowly became more willing to seek the truth. But it could have been written before the chapter 4 trial, because that's where Kokichi needed a basic form of cooperation, in that Shuichi would actually try to find the truth, and accept something like that Gonta was the culprit. Kokichi needed Shuichi to expose Gonta, he needed Shuichi to to convince everyone else that Gonta was the culprit, and he needed Shuichi to find out about Kokichi's role as a manipulator of Gonta. But Shuichi did lie and make Kokichi look suspicious, so it's not clear whether Shuichi passed the test and became trustworthy?

Kokichi jumped in at the lie, to make sure the trial ended where it was supposed to. I suppose Shuichi picking up that Gonta was the culprit would mean that Kokichi would be able to at least act friendly to Gonta until the end.

If I said the actual truth back there, Gonta would've been reeeeeeal mad!

That would've interfered with the game, so I simply lied to calm him down

If I actually wanted to save everyone, like what Gonta did...

I wouldn't have betrayed Gonta. You should have realised that.

But Shuichi made that not possible, so Kokichi had to reveal the plan and make Gonta's sacrifice to 'save everyone' not work, and then also 'comfort' Gonta after being the person who revealed Gonta was the culprit, and then double back and become the evil person who actually planned all of this for fun.

So I think the main motivation of Kokichi was to instill doubt, and force people accept hard truths early on, because that would mean he would have allies. But as he was unable to do that, he resorted to extreme measures that didn't require anyone else's trust, or for anybody to seek the truth.

My favorite character from V3! First game from Danganronpa series for me, it was hard to grasp the characters and all of the things going on. However, his introduction alongside Keebo made me laugh and I decided to play this game through for Kokichi. Even though this game became more than Kokichi for me after the first case, but he was always a blessing while on screen.

Others have pretty much brought out fair points so I don't have much to add on. Only thing I gotta say is 'My favorite video game character of 2017.'

The Nagito/Byakyua of V3. If you liked those characters chances are you'll like him. I really liked them both and I liked Kokichi a lot. Especially that fake body discovery that gave me a heart attack.

He is the cutest one.

He was interesting and made the game and the game within the game interesting, to say the least.

I feel like Ouma (or his evil persona, whatever you choose to believe) is what Togami could have been. I would love to see the original game rewritten at the level of V3.

Kokichi is the bestest Boy and anyone that says otherwise will be fucking murdered by Gonta. Why? Because the bestest boy told him too.

But on a more important note... Kokichi did everything because he wanted to survive and end the killing game. I don't believe he had bad intentions, he just had an odd way of doing what he thought was right.

tfw Kokichi's discussion fails to reach 300 comments

This is way below expectations, wow

load more comments (1 reply)
load more comments (4 replies)
Character Discussion #76 - Kirumi Tojo (All Spoilers) (self.danganronpa)


kirumi made a mildly positive impression on me the first time i played, but i came to fucking love her upon replay, entirely because of her climactic class trial. up until then, she's a perfectly cromulent stoic lady/team mom character, sure, whatever, but it's when she's a murderess on the dock that she really shines.

v3 as a rule loves to redeem its murderers, various sister-fucking exceptions notwithstanding, and it makes a play at doing so with kirumi. the way it does this is through basic utilitarianism: is it ethical to sacrifice a small group of people for the good of the larger population? knotty philosophical stuff that's been debated for literal hundreds of years, and i wouldn't blame anyone who said that, yes, the ends justify the means. but there's a really dark undercurrent to it all once you start picking the situation apart.

for one thing, it's not one-to-one. it's not 'the 16 ultimates get dropped in a vat of acid' versus 'the population of japan gets obliterated in the blink of an eye.' if a political figure, even a very good one, loses their job, their countrymen don't get killed en masse (and even if monokuma implies that something malign has happened, at that point we have no idea what it is and he's not the most reliable narrator to begin with). also relevant: we have faith that kirumi is an outstanding prime minister, because we know her to be competent and capable. but when we see the kind of behaviour her ruthless pragmatism bears out in chapter two, it's easy to imagine that she could also become dictatorial, or myopic, or corrupt. and what if the same competence that makes her an effective servant simply doesn't translate into a role as the head of a country?

imagine a political leader, let's say a president, who is terrible but believes himself to be outstanding. yes, i know, it's hard to believe, but these people do exist. would it be unanimously held that this person's life holds more value than thirteen others by virtue of his position as a head of state? sure, it's possible and even likely that kirumi is a fine leader, but i would also point out the arrogance of her belief that she is the only person for the job and her return to that job justifies the sacrifice of human life. as pure as she'd have us believe her motives are here, she's constructed a hierarchy of values where she is the centre of the universe and any death to protect her well-being can be rationalized. she's just utilized a very good piece of selfless-seeming spin to disguise the brokenness of that line of thinking (as the best politicians do).

let's put a pin in that for now. moving on: do you remember the specifics of how kirumi tries to scramble out of her fate? because she is ice fucking cold. specifically, she invokes kaede. shuichi is trying to pin her down and she leans on him so hard all 'kaede's wish was for us to escape together; how dare you betray her memory?' that's savage. that's brutal! kaede is like a deity to these people and such a button for shuichi specifically, my god, and kirumi has NO hesitation about pissing on her grave to get herself off the hook. that's the most potent instance of kirumi's ruthlessness, but remember that she is literally trying to manipulate other people into taking her place on the gallows until moments before the execution, after the trial is already over. in a series where the vast majority of culprits accept their fates upon receiving their verdicts, it's genuinely jarring to see someone scheme that relentlessly to get away from her responsibility for her crime.

kirumi's final trial reveals so much about her that i find compelling. she's so ruthless, so manipulative, and might be, in the purest sense of the word, the most machiavellian person in the cast. we experience her as a uniting figure early on, because she applies her defining qualities in a prosocial way -- her ability to read people's wants and needs, her intense pragmatism, her ambition to excel. but when these same qualities are applied in a self-serving way, we get shit like her manipulating the most vulnerable member of the cast into letting her kill him, then pulling out every underhanded trick in the book to dupe the rest of the cast into killing themselves, all premised upon the megalomaniacal idea that the power she wields makes her life more essential than anyone else's.

it doesn't shock me at all that a person like that would do well in politics. in fact, team danganronpa should have hired her to run their show, whether they created her or not. no offense, moogs, but if kirumi were running things, we'd be well into season C3 by now, and the fans would be loving it because kirumi would give them exactly what they want. she's a people pleaser, after all.

The main thing I dislike about her as a killer is that, apart from her invoking Kaede again, (and this is a problem of most of the DR killers) is that she really doesn't put up much of a satisfying fight when you really listen to her arguments. A lot of it is just fluff and hype of the killer saying how they'll shut you down followed by "you have no proof that that's what happened!"

A conjecture argument is fine sparingly, but it's ridiculous that they say "here's a plausible explanation of how things could happen" and then they just say you have no proof and suddenly everyone ignores you.

It's like DR 1 how apparently everyone is convinced by Leon literally telling Makoto to shut up over and over had Makoto failed.

i do like the idea of an alternate universe where everyone is like 'yeah, leon's right, shut up makoto' and gets executed over it.

it's possible you're right about kirumi's defence being a bit rhetorically sparse (i don't actually remember) but she really worked the group over emotionally, which is more what i responded to. in any danganronpa cast, there's what, three people who respond to actual logic? the rest of them are dupes and simpletons. himiko spent the first third of this trial arguing for the existence of fucking magic. all you really need to do is guilt them and tug at their heartstrings most of the time and you've got a decent shot at escape. kirumi played those odds and i respect the move.

Yeah, I definitely like that part of her character, don't get me wrong. I guess it's more...I don't really buy her desperation to escape if her arguments are so incredibly flimsy. In the case of Fuyuhiko defending Peko in 2-2, he first attempts to lie to give her an alibi, then he hones in right on the escape method to try and save her, and this is right after spending half the case trying to make the Hiyoko frameup stick.

I think the mystery itself helps to really sell the narrative, so while I like the emotional manipulation part, I don't really feel the weight of Kirumi's desire to escape if the best she can say is Shuichi is just grasping at straws. Like if she found a way to push suspicion back onto someone else and they have a "is this the end" moment or something, then maybe it'd be more engaging.

I think in a lot of fiction there's this really bad assumption that people when under duress will somehow completely ignore all semblance of logic. For example, in DR nobody questions what assurance do they have that they'll actually get to escape for killing someone even though this is a very reasonable question to ask. There isn't even a time limit in DR, so you've a lot of time to think about what's going on. I don't expect everyone to be totally logical, but if you're going to die for screwing up I'd think you want to see some evidence if any exists.

I think the reason why people don't argue with alternative scenarios is because it's generally quite trivial to come up with them so it'd just make everything look even dumber. After all, if you have some undisputable incriminating evidence there's no need to hide it, so in general we can say in DR they don't have such evidence. If you just want plausible explanation it's easy to come up with many. Conan Doyle himself did a parody on this before, where Dr. Watson tried to deduce Sherlock Holmes's behavior, but of course Sherlock Holmes is never going to be one-upped by his assistant and easily comes up with explanation that refutes all deduction. For example Watson noticed Holmes looked pale after reading a letter and deduce it must be a tough case, but Holmes said it was a letter from his dentist reminding him to show up for appointment on time. Although it's a parody, the point is that 'plausible explanation' are actually dime a dozen and they're only strong proof when Sherlock Holmes says they're true.

For example, in DR nobody questions what assurance do they have that they'll actually get to escape for killing someone even though this is a very reasonable question to ask. There isn't even a time limit in DR, so you've a lot of time to think about what's going on. I don't expect everyone to be totally logical, but if you're going to die for screwing up I'd think you want to see some evidence if any exists.

this is completely true, and usually most relevant any time the cast thinks they can corner monokuma into ending the killing game by violating his own rules (when in reality he never, ever gives a fuck). but i think no one ever questions the 'blackened who avoids the vote escapes' rule for the meta reason that it would be very boring to watch these kids harass monokuma about the validity of a rule that will obviously never happen. like, we know it's very unlikely that any blackened will pull off their murder because eighty bucks for a game that ends with kirumi escaping victorious in chapter two is pretty steep.

i feel what you're putting down, though, because i had the same thought about the first blood perk in v3. like, if i'm kaede and i think i've successfully brained rantaro: if i step forward as the killer, what's to stop monokuma from just executing me on the spot and being like 'upupupu i lied i'm such an asshole'? the student body in general gives monokuma/the mastermind way too much credibility for someone who's stuck them in a pointless murder game.

I always figured if the obligatory murderous psychopath of the group steps up and say "I'd totally say 'upupupu I lied about the rules' after a successful murder if I was in charge" that'd immediately scare everyone else from ever attempting any murder. It wouldn't even matter if Monokuma start executing people to intimidate them (and usually he can't due to external factors), because if people figure they're all dead anyway why betray your principles?

There should be a phase in DR where Monokuma is earning the student's trust so that they believe as twisted Monokuma is, he'd never lie and indeed let them go if they pull off a successful murder. Ironically, the memory loss makes this even harder as nobody could possibly have any previous knowledge of Monokuma after the memory wipe. I got the impression that Junko is someone who always keeps her promises, but it's not like any of the DR1 kids could've possibly known that. You can't even have something like "I heard the Despair Sisters always honor their words!" since nobody knows who the Despair Sisters are!

himiko spent the first third of this trial arguing for the existence of fucking magic.

But magic is real, ya big dumb dumb!

SHUT UP! SHUT UP! SHUT UP!

Guess I won the argument boys.

Firstly, I must start by saying that I love this post. Especially because you portray Kirumi's manipulative bits as a positive to her character and compare these traits to actual politicians; and they're definitely my favourite parts about her.

To add more to Kirumi's manipulation part, there's one other instance where she does so visibly. She steers the conversation towards a dead end and in turn, Shuichi, who is yet to bloom into his role as a detective, starts to doubt himself until Maki brings them back on topic. The cast even comments on this.

There's also another part where she goes on a trajectory to talk about 'everyone' in the sense of her motive video, which Kaito catches onto. When she realises that, she flips it, in turn saying it's totally, surely for the all of them, goading them into a false sense of security and trust towards someone they've relied on so heavily.

What I love about all of this is that the trial shows her cunning side through the way she acts and uses her tears; and her intelligence through the intricacy of her plan which ended up being too thorough to be perfect (using simple murder methods as the confident supermaid? No way!) I also really like her lashing out at Shuichi here since she stings right where it hurts and is clearly very vindictive when she even votes for him out of sheer spite.

I'm pretty shallow; I love ruthlessly manipulative characters like her, especially when it juxtaposes so ironically against her talent. A job all about serving and caring for others, when she herself is so emotionally detached to the idea and serves other as a 'duty' before understanding the meaning behind it.

I feel that was a wasted potential for her character. Kodaka has said that he wanted to make her character "important" enough all to make her twist make sense in that she would be someone suitable for a political role so there's a lot of focus on that. It would be really nice if kirumi was truly a selfish person (instead of just being that way only when it's asked for) instead of the game proving that she isn't by making her reason to serve people being so she can see their potential (a noble and nothing selfish reason) and coming with the mom thing all that paints a nice image for her of the selfless person she is. It would be interesting and better for her character if her selfish decision was intregated and part of kirumi's character instead of being a decision that honestly, even was motivated by non selfish reasons, despite the way she acted, she wanted still to offer herself for others. I think about it and kodaka would need to change her character a lot to make it be something but it would be better, like you said, it creates an interesting contrast for her talent but even in her trial a interesting detail like that goes unnoticed and it's never explored like it should. He wasted completely the chance to give her character at least a 2nd layer.

Hmm, I can definitely see where you're coming from to be unsatisfied with her reasoning. I kind of don't mind it as much because I see her as latching onto the duties of what it is to be a maid after reading its dictionary definition, but never understanding any of the intricacies around it.

She doesn't get that Kaede or Shuichi would want to talk to her as a person because she views herself as a maid before a highschool student and in turn, causes them dissatisfaction because of her inability to comprehend their wishes, which are not dished out as commands. Whatever personality she even had has been eaten up by her desire to excel as a maid that the first thing in the imminent danger of a killing game which bothers her is... that she's now a stray maid, without a master; how dishonourable. I don't think she sees herself as anymore than a servant, whether to her classmates or the nation, and so, for her, her duties are where she begins and ends.

Won't say the attempts to show her actual personality are great but as u/darkcrusaderares
 points out in his passage, Kirumi being unable to cut konjac is a way of showing there is a highschool girl underneath all of the feats she can accomplish. She also latently gets emotions but is unable to comprehend them for herself, which is why she can manipulate others but not understand them, if that makes sense. And with all of this, I like the portrayal of attachment to a duty to the point of subduing your personality to fit into it, but yeah, I guess if these aspects of her were utilised better, she'd be much more impacting.

I agree with you but just to make it clear, kirumi's weakness being konjac is actually to show that she's a perfectionist that is scared to fail in her duties (just like it was showed in overall with her twist):

The perfect and flawless supermaid Kirumi Toujou's only weakness is drum rolls konjac. It's not even because she doesn't like to eat it, it's because can't cut it properly with any kind of blade. That's her Achilles' heel. It's fine to be a perfectionist, no one is going to complain if you just shred the whole thing just like any normal person does

She's showed as "human" in different parts of the game but i think the game unfortunately didn't do a good job with that in overall

Also in one of her ftes with kaede, she reveals the main reason she gives up about her emotions it's to not get in the way of her duties, in another words, selfless devotion, she isn't selfish or cold, she just doesn't make emotions get in the way of her duties.

That's an interesting view but it it's just too bad that in reality the game never touch those topics of morallity and still insists in going to a different direction than portraying her character being absolute selfish and the irony of her choosing her fate. She comes as this bad person for the player but the game never take her as that.

yeah, i get what you mean. i think that in general, one of the flaws of danganronpa is it never really digs that deep into anyone's motivation. someone does what they do because they're trying to avenge the memory of their dead friend, or they're trying to get back home to their sick mother, or whatever, and we're sort of just expected to take that at face value most of the time. of course, there's often a gap between how the game would like a character to come across and how they actually do come across, and that's where these discussion threads live a lot of the time. for reference, see the maki thread, which was 200-something comments of 'this is how they want us to feel about maki and this is how we actually do.'

It's also worth considering that in the end, she DOES manage to convince the rest of the class that she's right, at least in part. Gonta does to volunteer to get executed in her place, up until Kaito brings everyone back around. In the end, they even cheer for her when she's trying to run for it during her execution, futile though it ends up being. While she might seem like a selfish schemer from the outside, the cast at least seems to still think of her as a "good" person.

oh, for sure, but i'm a little scornful of that. i've said it before, but there is no crime in danganronpa, however extreme, that can't be pardoned if it can be construed as well-intentioned on even an incredibly basic level. remnants of despair, serial killers, tampering with class trials for petty reasons that would result in the mass execution of the entire cast if successful, all are forgiven with a minimum of fuss if the perpetrator meant well or seems contrite or is even just vaguely 'a nice person.' it's a naive take and often implemented in fairly corny ways, and i find that to be the case with kirumi -- even a cursory glance at her crime and motivation reveals how fucked up it is, and how actively she does not give a shit about her classmates, and absolutely no one is interested in calling her to the carpet for it. danganronpa characters as a rule are implausibly forgiving, so i don't think their endorsement of kirumi necessarily vindicates her motives, even if that's the intention.

also don't get me started on gonta, like damn get a spine bro.

Don't get me wrong, I agree with you, these students are a bunch of rubes, but I notice that a lot of the IRL audience tends to agree with the characters themselves. Given the comments on this thread, I may have the wrong understanding of the "common interpretation" of Kirumi, but I suspect that part of the reason she's well liked while Angie (who I'd consider much more genuinely good) is often disliked has to do with what the characters think of her.

To some extent, easy forgiveness seems to be a common thing in Japanese games (I'm looking at you, Persona 5 spoilers), so I wouldn't rule out the possibility that it's a cultural thing. That said, it does seem especially egregious in Dangan Ronpa given what the games are about. Not only that, but V3 seems especially fond of trying to make the killer out to be someone worthy of reverence (with the exception of one seesaw boy) where the previous games tended to let them merely be sympathetic, or at least understandable, without trying to make them seem heroic, and tended to make actual forgiveness a little harder to get than "the bear said you were someone important, so all is forgiven".

i think there's some validity to your first paragraph. there are instances in-thread of people positing that taking a belief outside of the one shared by the students is non-canon, which strikes me as a fairly literal way to interpret a piece of writing but i'm sure it's how a decent chunk of the audience experiences the game.

yeah, v3 loves a good sobfest execution for its tragic heroes. i wouldn't mind if it didn't extend the runtime of the post-trial epilogues so much, which is a bit of a bear given how plodding some of the trials can be.

Honestly, I love the way you bring up how manipulative Kirumi really is. It's honestly one of my favorite parts of her character. Her trying to get everyone to take pity on her was clenches fist so good.

Part 1 of 2

Kirumi......is really unimpressive as a character. I said this once before, but I feel that Kirumi has aged the worst since first playing V3 and whenever I think about her character, I find a new problem with her writing.

I will first start with what I like about Kirumi, which mainly consists of pre-release hype. When the characters and VA's were first revealed, Kirumi was easily in my top 5 for characters I was most excited for because based on a first impressions standpoint, Kirumi knocked it out of the park. I absolutely love her design and the spider web symbolism with her dress and was happy that the writers made her look dignified and not one of those sexualized French maid archetypes. I also love her talent as the SHSL Maid, as it was a talent I was really looking forward to being used ever since DR2. Finally, I adored her Japanese voice and found it really soothing to listen to. Kikuno Inoue was a great pick to voice Kirumi(not to say that Kira Buckland was bad, I simply preferred her JP voice).

Kirumi does get a couple of solid moments in the game too. I love how Kirumi apologized to Gonta for accusing him after evidence proved to the contrary and made her seem really professional and respectful. I also love Kirumi's execution and how it parallels to the Spider's Thread folktale. In the story, a god named Shakyamuni is walking around Paradise(or in other words heaven) and sees into the depths of hell, particularly on one man Kandata. Kandata was a cruel criminal, but he managed to commit one good deed during his life where he decided not to crush a spider when walking through the forest. Moved by this act, the god decides to give him a second chance and lowers a spider thread from heaven down into hell. In hell, among all the dreariness and agony, Kandata notices the spider thread lowering down to him and he grabs onto it and starts climbing it. Midway through his journey, Kandata laughs to himself and thinks that he will finally escape hell until he notices that some other people have started to climb the thread also. Worried that it might break, Kandata yells at the others to get off of it and that the thread belongs to only him. Right after saying that, the thread breaks and Kandata falls back into the depths of Hell. In the end, Kandata doomed himself by only being concerned for his own salvation and not for the others. This story is extremely similar to Kirumi's execution where the circumstances involve her being given a chance to escape because of her noble motive to save the country. However, because she was selfish enough to commit murder and potentially doom her fellow classmates, her chances of escaping vanish as the rope breaks and Kirumi plummets to her death. I loved the symbolism in this execution and found it to be one of the best in the series.

With that out of the way, I will talk about all the problems I have with Kirumi's writing which is mainly her personality and her role in Chapter 2.

Her personality is extremely by the numbers for her talent. She is calm, collected, and most of all subservient. These traits aren't particularly offensive since Kirigiri, a character who I enjoy, shares most of these traits. No, what I don't like about Kirumi's personality is how her entire character revolves around her talent, which makes her extremely one-noted. Specifically, her actions and motivations all trace back to her serving others. To be fair, a lot of the characters in the series are pretty one-noted in that their humor and personalities are all expansions of gimmicks. Chihiro is meek. Hifumi is nerdy. Ishimaru is strict. Togami is a dick. Toko is lovestruck. Yasuhiro is stupid. Teruteru is a pervert. Peko is calm. Hiyoko is rude. Ibuki is hyper. Nekomaru is loud. Gundham is hammy. And V3 is a big example of this where most characters have their own specific catchphrase which can turn them less into characters and more into walking caricatures and archetypes. However, I would go and say that Kirumi puts everyone to shame when I comes to how much of a character can tie to a single trait. This can come as a surprise because when people in this community talk about characters who are one noted from V3, they will mainly talk about Angie, Gonta, or Tenko. However, I think those characters have at least a couple of significant traits about them. Angie constantly spouts about Atua, but she is also really hyper and manipulative. Gonta constantly talks about being a gentleman, but the writers also focus on his naivety and self loathing. Tenko constantly spouts about degenerate males, but the writers also emphasize her childish nature and views on expression.

Kirumi's character is entirely defined by her need to serve others. Every action she makes throughout the story always traces back to her duty as a maid and her "selfless devotion" ideology. Her talent as a maid has to do with serving others. Her role as the Mom of the group in Chapter 2 primarily consists of her serving the needs of the other students. Her twist of betraying the other students so that she can leave the school at the expense of their lives all has to do with her need to serve her country. Even during the first trial where she was contributing theories and suggestions, the writers still felt the need to have her mention that it's her job as a maid to do the best she can in finding the culprit.

It honestly seems like Kirumi was one of the last characters that Kodaka came up with when writing V3 because there was little imagination or thought to her character. This is also probably why Kirumi died so early in the game. In Chapter 1, both characters were plot significant so Kirumi couldn't take up one of those roles so she ended up being one of the first fodder deaths in the game when she was he culprit in Chapter 2. There is a clear sign of effort when Kodaka puts his dedication into a character. Take Shinguji for example. All his anthropology lessons must have taken a while to research which makes it enjoyable to listen to. Or how about Tsumugi? Kodaka actually took the time to interview with several cosplayers to get an idea as to how to write her character pre Mastermind reveal. These two characters had a lot of thought put into them and that kind of passion is not seen when Kirumi was written.

On the topic of Kodaka putting passion into his characters, I might as well go over her free time events. To put it simply: they're disappointing and incredibly shallow. Any intriguing questions to Kirumi's character like why is she so dedicated to serving others are never answered. Not only that, but I don't feel like Kirumi was all that human when I got to know her. What I mean by that is that her events mainly consist of her accomplishing outstanding feats from cooking elaborate meals to eliminating terrorists. The writers focus less on expanding on her characterization, giving her flaws and struggles, or doing anything to make her a relatable character but instead just turn her into even more of a walking super maid archetype. It's as if the writers gave Izuru Kamukura his own free time events. It makes her character incredibly boring and uninteresting as a character and, well, a mary sue. Oh! But she does have a flaw revealed in her events! Cutting konjac! Wow! What an interesting flaw! I feel that that one event summarized my displeasure with her events. Kirumi has a lot of potential depth to explore, like her guilt over coddling her master too much to the point of making them dependent on her. That would be something really fun to look into and would help subvert the impression that she is a super maid. But no, the main flaw highlighted in her events is her not being able to cut konjac! Bleh, her free time events were a complete waste and made me like her character even less.

Agreed on her FTEs, they were very shallow and told us less about her character than her love hotel scene, which is embarrassing. I'm not a fan of FTEs where the writers try to force you to accept a character's traits without exploring them, but I guesd that's the issue with FTEs being in a vacuum.

Agreed! Instead of giving Kirumi new traits, it felt like the writers were trying to make her single trait as over the top as possible so that the player would like it.

Part 2 of 2

With her personality out of the way, the next big problem I have with Kirumi's character was how the writers handled her character in Chapter 2. My problem with Kirumi's writing in this chapter relates to a bigger problem I have with the writing of the V3 girl cast. There are a lot of great and interesting concepts, but they are executed terribly. Maki's character arc was severely weakened as a result of Kodaka showing way too much favoritism to some of his characters. Tsumugi was meant to be so forgettable that no one would suspect her as the mastermind and fly under people's radar. In actuality, her plainness made many people suspect her as the mastermind. Angie's Student Council plot line is ruined by the fact that they made it an obvious right-wrong conflict with little effect on the plot. Miu's entire character is barely even explored in the game and is used for an uninspired Sayaka situation. Characters like Kaede and Tenko, who I found to be well handled in the game, are still mainly used to springboard the development of other characters and their entire character still revolves around said character. The only girl who I thought was handled really well was Himiko who had a compelling and well paced arc and satisfying character development. As for Kirumi, the premise behind her character was for her to act motherly to the rest of the characters just to earn their trust and manipulate it in the class trial. The problem? It's rushed!

The cast's dependence on Kirumi comes completely out of nowhere in Chapter 2 and is shoved down your throat. I could buy it if Kirumi was spoiling the rest of the students in Chapter 1, but that never happened. Instead the chapter begins with the characters constantly barraging Kirumi with requests. It's not organic to say the least and was pretty baffling to sit through. What makes it even worse is that this whole situation rides on the player being emotionally attached to Kirumi caring to the other students. I was supposed to be enveloped with Kirumi's role as the mom of the group only for me shocked by her betrayal. However, Kirumi's sudden focus was jarring to me and I couldn't care less about the characters questioning as to whether or not they should suspect Kirumi because the writers presented the situation in a really forced and awkward manner which made me realize right off the bat that she was going to die in this chapter.

This is a long running problem in the series when a chapter placed focus on a specific pool of characters, chances are that some of those characters will die in that chapter. This traces all the way back to DR1 Chapter 2 where Chihiro was constantly bringing up the fact that he needed to get stronger and has only escalated from there. And that issue is really present in V3 when characters who were in the background for the most part suddenly receive focus and end up dying shortly after. Characters like Ryoma, Shinguji, and Miu start to receive a ton of attention in the chapter which they are killed in. And that same problem is apparent with Kirumi.

The problem with Kirumi though is that she needed multiple chapters as the role of the mom to make this plot line work. If the characters started to depend on Kirumi in Chapter 2 and have her commit a murder in Chapter 3 or 4, then I can understand why the other characters would be hesitant on suspecting Kirumi. It would also make her betrayal far more impactful. In general, the Chapter 2 trial has a couple of big problems that could be solved by simply placing it in a later chapter of the game. Kaito's decision to not suspect Maki and Shuichi going along with it would work way better if we actually got the time to learn about Maki and understand that she is a good person. Tenko saying that she is willing to defend Himiko at the cost of her own life would work better if she got to spend more time with Himiko and fully understand what she was going through. Chapter 2 suffers from the problem that it shouldn't only be the second chapter given all the major plot set ups in this case, and Kirumi suffers badly because of this.

I might as well get this out of the way, but her murder plan and motive reveal was incredibly stupid. There is no excuse for Kirumi not to get that glove fabric from the pool in the morning when she was allowed to enter the water. Considering how Kirumi is established as someone smart and rational, there is no reason why she would risk her life and not bother with it. Her reveal as the Prime Minster came completely out of nowhere. With Shinguji, the game took the time to foreshadow his relationship with his Sister and his views on murder and death, but here there is little to no hints at her being the Prime Minister. And I know that this is because Kirumi remembered this fact only after watching her motive video, but that's a lazy justification as to why the writers didn't bother with foreshadowing this twist.

Kirumi is unfortunately one of my least favorite characters from V3 and is probably the second worst written character in the game(behind Maki). Kirumi never really ever subverts her maid archetype and when she does get focus, it's horribly rushed. Just a forgettable character overall.

On the bright side, my favorite survivor in probably the whole series is next week!

Your point on free times hits the nail on the head. Given the pre-established coddling and them making her supermaid, I was floored by the weakness being Konjac. Hell they could've made her devotion the issue but they don't.

I've never seen a single line like the konjac revelation sum up a character's flaws so perfectly before: it makes enough sense, but it's still underwhelming. Really needed to actually make her supermaid despite her hinting to otherwise instead with that terrorist bit huh?

It also sucks since overly coddling people would've been valid for her caring for the group and her desire to protect more people in the country and make the betrayal hit that much harder while sticking to her devotion theme. Just one change could've improved so much.

Pretty much. When Kirumi revealed that she had a weakness of not being able to cut konjac, I thought it would be one of those "cute" flaws like Chiaki's sleeping habits. Needless to say, I was baffled that the game expected me to treat it seriously, going as far as to make it the focus of her Harmonious Event in Salmon Mode.

Maybe you could see her free times in a better light if you see the konjac thing as the only weakness she's willing to admit to despite how she's already told you that she has had a problem in the past with being smothering. Her pride gets in the way of her showing a more humane side of herself: she doesn't want to be seen as a maid machine but she refuses to sit and chat with you like a peer.

That'd be fair enough but I just didn't get the vibes that it was pride mostly because it's hard to imagine her with emotion that strong outside of her execution and love hotel. She feels more like a conditioned robot made to care for people outside of that and it's just easier for me to interpret like that. Maybe it's a lack of focus on that but if that was the intention then I'll just need to try and look out for that on a replay.

Well she jokes to Shuichi that he needs to pay her 1 million yen/10 thousand dollars every day just because she's a lost maid~ which is pretty conceited since the joke hinges on being believable that she's worth that much for a job she does for free.

Maybe next time you see her free times think of how on her end she is choosing to behave this way despite how she tells Kaede she doesn't want to be seen as a mommy and to Shuichi she says she's not a machine. She doesn't want to be seen that way and she says she's learned from the incident where her employer became too dependant on her, but even when someone asks her to act like a regular person she keeps fussing about adhering to duty.

I'll honestly try it, I do like Kirumi in general but the Free Times were just underwhelming so I'll at least make the effort to like those too.

First time around I thought Kirumi's free times (and especially love hotel) were super bland, but after seeing chapter 2 and revisiting them later her ftes seem funnier to me if I think of her just being full of herself the whole time. Hope it helps you too.

Gundham is hammy

I see what you did there.

I wasn't even aware of how punny that was when I typed it!

It was the will of causality guiding you.

Rebuttal time! Actually, I think the konjac root thing is supposed to symbolize a bigger weakness, which is her inability to accept failing to serve someone else in any way. Even though it's a pretty obscure food, and she can prepare any other food almost perfectly, she constantly worries about that minor weakness even when she's on dates with Shuichi. She's ultimately an insecure person deep down, as almost every single time she's complimented, she quickly denies it and talks about requests she couldn't fulfill, such as being asked to annihilate a rival nation or help people who didn't have potential succeed. I think it's this fear of failure that eventually makes her so unwilling to let the country that she sees as a master die that she's willing kill 14 high-school students even for just a chance at saving them. It's my opinion that the best character flaws are the ones that aren't immediately obvious.

Kirumi being the prime minister is foreshadowed several times. She talks about serving important political figures multiple times in her free time events. And like I said before, one of the first things she says when Kaede and Shuichi meet her is that she was once asked to annihilate a rival nation.

However, I will agree with you on one count: Her being perfect at almost everything she does is kind of a Mary Sue-ish trait, especially since her free time events never mention any training montage or other kind of explanation for her skills.

I'm part of the few people here that likes Kirumi, and i think she part of the half of decent female characters in this game. Is she a Maid steriotype? Yes, but at the same time, she would willingly do stuff for the V3 cast and her motive for murder, while i don't agree how she murdered Ryoma without the slightest remorse for him, she showed her selflesness on how she wanted to protect her country, even if it means the rest of the cast would have to bite the dust

Kirumi is a really underrated character here and deserves more attetion IMO.

Well I don't think anyone cares, but I figure it's my turn to do this.

Part 1 of 4

It must be a really messy upbringing to feel sorry for someone who manipulates the attention she gets in order to save herself. But honestly, I do. Regardless the time or place, I gotta face the fact that the community won't ever be satisfied with my third favorite V3 lady. Yeah I know, shame on me, Rantaro needs less screentime. As flawed and restricted Kirumi is, I still find a lot of things to appreciate about her. But I won't turn a blind eye as to why many people don't, so I'll try to elaborate on both aspects as I go.

Design

Pardon my language, but Kirumi's design is fucking perfection to the burst of a rocket even Gundham and Sonia would have a hard time catching up with. Her dominant color palette of black dress and sharp, round golden gray hair and eyes are a nice comforting sight on top of her tall, slim stature, cleverly integrated with a spider web motive. I've seen my fair share of scary ass attractive maids, but the lovechild of Rem and 2B might just take the cake for most malevolent. Good job, Komatsuzaki. I'm not the biggest Daily art guy, but lo and behold, I upvote so many Kirumi fanart posted here. They're just that wonderful when complimented with a character so impeccably drawn and colored.

Personality

I'm not gonna act like Kirumi is a flawless character, but hot damn I'd be hard pressed if I don't care for what a unique character she is, at least for the series' standard. For one, She appears to be a strong, stoic lady with unhealthy levels of dedication. She's much more elegant and polite than what you see in a typical stoic DR female, and this came out as a double-edge sword. We've seen Kyoko, Peko, and Maki as representatives of DR's stoic female figures. What sets Kirumi apart from them is that she doesn't have that cold and cynical backdoor to her persona, which puts her closer to a resemblance of Sakura if anything. Of course, that makes it even harder for her to be all too likable since many would pass her off as bland, which is fine, but considering the series is known for repeating the same trends over and over again, I think it's a nice breath of fresh air that Kirumi doesn't have to share that same kind of angst most of these kinds of ladies are known for.

Kirumi's selfless devotion is handled in a way that made me realize just because a character works hard without a need of favor, that doesn't make them unrealistic. Now I can't say I fully relate with Kirumi, but I have been in situations where I do a lot of heavy work without really asking for anything back just because it feels nice to do so. And it's not just me, lots of people in my family does it, particularly my younger sister. People ask for a lot out of characters nowadays, almost every character needs to have a catch to their personality in order to show some balance. But you know, it's a nice exotic trip to have a character that doesn't need a catch just to be nice, and I find that Kirumi tells that story pretty adequately. It certainly helps that she's fairly modest, follows a code of honor that makes sense out of her behavior, and doesn't rub her ego left and right, unlike a certain rambunctious housekeeper who's name I dare not mention here.

Part 2 of 4

Actions and Background

Now here's the difficult part: She is hyped by her classmates as a really powerful and capable person, but we hardly ever see her contribute to the class in much of a positive manner. Instead, we mainly see her on the antagonistic side of arguments. Accusing Gonta of Rantaro's murder and gets disproven, and drove the second trial to chasing false points in order to protect herself. That's right, she doesn't appear to be as useful as you would expect, but the point isn't how useful she is in the progression of the class trials, it's more so the kind of approach she takes. Kirumi's approaches are considerably underhanded and dirty, complementary to the determination she salvages as a maid; If she's gonna clean something, she had to handle the dirty with her own hands. This is where her devotion takes a turn for the twisted.

Kirumi's determination to uphold her duty ranges from harmless to straight up unstable, and the motive video really showed that. She's willing to put aside the lives of her classmates because ultimately the trade-off she had to deal with is much too big for her to ignore. She's so willing to do this that she took some really cheap shots in doing so. Kicking Ryoma while he was down, manipulating the love her classmates have to socially protect herself, and even refuses to vote for herself at the end of the trial. This turned off so many people, and doesn't help her reputation at the slightest.

First off, yes, her minister backstory came out of nowhere and is pretty absurd, but here's the thing; it's not the focus of her character (Further proven by the possibility that it's fake). What it shows is that Kirumi has a huge responsibility to uphold to a crowd bigger than what she can compromise with her friends. It's not the backstory itself, it's the experience of it that's the center of what made Kirumi push herself as much as she did. Second, do these actions entail that Kirumi is evil? Well, yeah, they kinda do. No matter the reason, screwing your friends over as cheaply as you did is inexcusable. But is that necessarily a bad thing? Of course not. Kirumi still cares about her friends and it tears her apart from the inside to do all the things she did, as exemplified considering how much she couldn't hold back her tears when she had to lie about her innocence.

If there's a reference I can point for the direction of Kirumi's character, it'd be Asgore from Undertale. It's not that they both are heartless killers who don't care about all those they'd kill, they're just strong-willed enough to put aside their personal love and desires in favor of doing what's best for the people they serve. It's a pretty depressing motivation that's honestly glossed over too much and not given enough reading over.

Part 3 of 4

Point of Value

Granted, I wouldn't commit to those underhanded tactics if I were her, but that's just what happens when you draw out the negative side of what she's willing to do. I don't see what makes Kirumi any less sympathetic than your average Mondo, Teruteru, Peko, and Gundham, considering they all commit to murder out of the pressure of information themselves.

What sets Kirumi apart from the lot of them however is the fact that her murder scheme actually takes into account of the circumstances of the killing game's payoff. How often do you see that someone in DR has a justifiable motive to get all their classmates killed just to save themselves or one other individual? Yeah, don't think so. The only ones who are fully, albeit subjectively, justified for it are Aoi and Mikan, who even then, centrally planned to kill everyone either way (And objectively, Gundham is pressured as it's a lose-lose situation for him).

Kirumi is the first instance where this kind of turmoil gets tackled, and it's pretty touchy, what with everyone regretting the decision to vote her out. That's when the cast had to learn to put aside the objectivity of the situation in order to really value their lives as individuals, and I think Kaito put that together pretty beautifully. Granted, it's a subjective moral, but it still holds a huge value when these characters had to cope with the fact that every single killer aims to rob all their lives if they're not the type to surrender ala Kaede and Kaito.

Execution

And hey, if you hate Kirumi that much even with all that said, at least you can get a kick out of that execution. Hot damn, I don't know if I love it or hate it, but getting mobbed and have every inch of her dignity ripped apart by buzzsaws was fucking humiliating. The most painful execution in the entire series by far, and definitely one of the best. She gets exactly what's coming for her with all the awful tactics she pulled against her classmates and you couldn't ask for anything more satisfying.

And that's the thing; Kirumi rightfully faced consequences. She doesn't kill herself to escape debt and get mourned endlessly by all her friends, she pays the fucking debt with her goddamn skin. Doesn't matter how cool she is, if she fucks over, she's very much paying the price. She's not an immortal mary sue Jesus you're supposed to love from start to finish. She's an honest to god, morally grey character. We don't have to see her dead body every fucking chapter and hear everyone suck her tits every time they mention her passing (Sorry, I really don't like that housekeeper, kek)

Part 4 of 4

Free Time Events

Her FTEs are nothing special, but considering how bad most of V3's FTEs are, I think Kirumi's is a pleasant enough stroll in comparison. It is kind of unsettling to see how robotic she can get with her dedicated service, but at the same time, she has her fair share of moments to remind you that she's much more human than she seems. Granted, her achievements are too good at places, but again, considering how little evidence we see of Kirumi's feat in strength, that's not the focus. Her dedication isn't written off as something to make her perfect, the robotic-ness of her determination IS what draws her character into conflict, so much so she fails to understand practical human emotions and couldn't catch when others think she overworks herself. It may not be the most relatable conflict in the world, but then again, that's subjective, which I'll emphasize further when I get to a certain character in the future.

Extra Thoughts

I guess Kirumi's character overall is pretty ahead of her time. The community is still in a phase where the majority of them value sympathizable character motives and growths as well as relatable personalities above anything else, so it doesn't seem like Kirumi is someone they're ready for. As much as I understand the backlash, I still love the underrated French Maid to death. I'll admit, I do wish for her to be better in places. She could have more "off" times where she didn't have to think about work all the time. If not offset by Kodaka's story choices, Kirumi can really use more screentime to flesh out said "off" times, perhaps switch Maki in as Chapter 2 killer instead and have Ryoma console Kirumi when she tries to kill him. After all, if Ryoma never saw his video, he wouldn't let Kirumi surpass him.

Hang me up dry, but I won't step down. Objective or subjective, a thoughtfully written character needs their justice, and I am proud to be Kirumi's. She may be offset by a lack of emphasis and a double-edged motive, but she's still in my opinion, a pretty good character.

I guess Kirumi's character overall is pretty ahead of her time. The community is still in a phase where the majority of them value sympathizable character motives and growths as well as relatable personalities above anything else, so it doesn't seem like Kirumi is someone they're ready for.

Honestly, if this was true, the whole fandom wouldn't appreciate characters like togami, nagito, ouma, mikan, gundham and kaito as much as they do. To be honest, the main reason her character doesn't get more fans is for the fact that she relies around one trait and is genuinely not very appealing in overall and these are very fair reasons. There isn't anything about her that is ahead of its time in her writing.

Kirumi's character motif is more vague than the characters you mentioned, so you're not wrong, but I interpret the concept of her drastic motivations and actions as something that's clouded in factors that people would generally take at face value. From what I've seen, people don't take kindly to crueler female characters in the series if they're not a full-time villain, and it doesn't help that Kirumi isn't dynamically personified (aka kinda bland), so it's a struggle to look past the simple shell that she wears as your average maid.

so it's a struggle to look past the simple shell that she wears as your average maid

I think that's the main problem - there isn't actually much to her character in overall even past her main traits unless you put your own interpretations in it, trying to expand her character and do a a lot of writing work in comparison with the other characters I metioned. You could do this with any character in DR but usually, most characters can get interesting and stand on their own without the need of you doing something like this

I wasn't talking about analyzing her character all that deep, it's all in the surface plain to see when she plays her card as a culprit. Granted, there are people who enjoy it, but not generally. She is developed rather sequentially, in which people will have to wait through her service moments before her character amounts to anything, and I agree that it's a generally bad thing for characters to do that. Hence why I said I wasn't fully satisfied with her character myself and feel she needs to have more relaxed moments. She has a lot of ambition, just lack the substance to be a generally compelling character for everyone.

I guess Kirumi's character overall is pretty ahead of her time. The community is still in a phase where the majority of them value sympathizable character motives and growths as well as relatable personalities above anything else, so it doesn't seem like Kirumi is someone they're ready for.

Uh, no...my complaint about Kirumi is exactly like my complaint about Kaede, they're such a strong example of X without a compelling basis for it. In Kirumi's case I'd have loved for there to be more about how she got to be so ruthless, where she even got the idea to be a maid from and so on but she gets basically nothing just like how unlike Sayaka and Twogami where both had talents that worked well to send them to their dooms Kaede is...a pianist.

It's not even just that, Kirumi's murder plan is one of the most criticized and I really don't buy that she's that capable to be worthy of her super-secret title when she lacked the intelligence to even question why the rest of the cast seemingly had mixed motive videos and she seemingly was the only one who got hers. That and stuff like the ripped piece of her glove makes her super unimpressive so overall Kirumi had nothing that makes her stand out.

-1 points 17 days ago 
Why did you get downvoted lol

-1 points 17 days ago 
Who even knows?

Kirumi seems a bit dry on first glance. She speaks in a very muted manner, barely emotes regardless of her mood or situation, and up until her execution barely seems to put actual effort into anything. However, she is an interesting case in her own right. Not quite in the "I like this and want to see more" sense, but in the "what am I looking at?" sense. Okay, maybe that's a little much, but let's break it down...

Shuichi does suggest that Kirumi may have a trait that I heavily dislike in characters, too much talent. Not just being talented, but having skill with literally everything. However, it's never really demonstrated in-game, apart from maybe being a handwave for how she engineered a zipline over the swimming pool. It's also demonstrated that while she might be "skilled" she's not always sensible with how she uses her talent, given that her murder and framing attempt is arguably the most complicated in the game after Kokichi's, which ends up getting her killed when she probably could have gotten away with her crime just by throwing the corpse into the pool. It sort of implies Kirumi might be overly specialized and may actually lack the common sense to properly use her talent in the real world... Except that in one of her Free Time Events, she talks about taking down a gang one by one, and from the way she describes it she approached that far more sensibly than she did her actual murder. It's not as if there was an actual rule stopping her from simply killing everyone in V3 like there was in the other games...

To put it mildly, they probably could've done better with her FTEs. The first one implied she didn't necessarily want to be the Ultimate Maid, and either felt obligated or couldn't fathom another way of interacting with others, but they never really go anywhere with it so it just ends up being a quirk instead of something to expand on. Alone that's not necessarily bad, but it's not unique, almost every one of her FTEs feels like it was meant to be the hook for a character arc or some kind of exploration but they just pile more hooks on instead of actually developing anything so it just becomes a mess. For someone who dies in the second chapter, I would at least hope they maintained consistency in her character but I don't know if I would even say that since the only consistent thing seems to be her desire to help and serve those with "potential".

Also... Well, when she mentioned Konjac as her weakness/"most fearful enemy", I initially thought she meant she had a drinking problem in high school which would've been a pretty interesting angle to come from. It could've cast a somewhat uncomfortable light on her taking a job as a domestic servant seemingly long before she even reached high school, either suggesting she took the job to feed her habit or that the stress of it weighs on her, which would fit pretty well into DR1 or 2 even if it doesn't quite mesh with the rest of V3's cast. Naturally it was disappointing to find that Konjac was in fact a vegetable instead of alcohol, and it wasn't even a real weakness like an allergy or something but an inability to prepare the stuff.

She's also strangely stoic in general. Most of her on screen time has her shifting between one to three very similar poses at a time, giving the impression that she acts fairly wooden with her classmates, especially compared to people like Miu and Angie who flip through extremely emotive poses almost every sentence. Kokichi and Gonta do start calling her "mom" in spite of her lack of any real motherly demeanor, though it could be argued that it's an ironic nickname (like if Gonta was called "Tiny").

That's not even getting into how she's portrayed as heroic when her actions are unapologetically self-serving, but heartdeco has done a better job with that than I ever could.

Overall, it just ends up feeling like the game is trying to portray Kirumi as someone she's not, and doesn't even know who she's actually supposed to be. It doesn't even offer the setup for me to call it intentional since the characters seem to have a consensus about her rather than it simply being the protagonist's misconceptions or Kirumi herself making inaccurate claims. Certainly not the worst character, but again, a bit of a mess.

Konjac

Konjac (or konjak, English: KOHN-yak) is a common name of the Asian plant Amorphophallus konjac (syn. A. rivieri), which has an edible corm (bulbo-tuber). It is also known as konjaku, konnyaku potato, devil's tongue, voodoo lily, snake palm, or elephant yam (though this name is also used for A. paeoniifolius).

It is native to warm subtropical to tropical eastern Asia, from Japan and China south to Indonesia (USDA hardiness zone 6-11).

Cognac

Cognac ( KON-yak or KOHN-yak; French pronunciation: ​[kɔ.ɲak]) is a variety of brandy named after the town of Cognac, France. It is produced in the surrounding wine-growing region in the departments of Charente and Charente-Maritime.

Cognac production falls under French Appellation d'origine contrôlée designation, with production methods and naming required to meet certain legal requirements. Among the specified grapes Ugni blanc, known locally as Saint-Emilion, is most widely used.

[ PM | Exclude me | Exclude from subreddit | FAQ / Information | Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28

Kirumi's one of my least favorite characters, partly because she's just boring to me. I'm not a fan of her archetype in the first place, and she only really became interesting right before she died (which is how I feel about most culprits in V3).

Speaking of the motive reveal, my personal interpretation is that she badly wants to escape and convinces herself that she's doing it for the greater good in an effort to assuage her guilty conscience.

Besides that, I don't like murderers that try to justify themselves. Murder is murder, though there are exceptions, like if the victim consented (2-4 and 3-5) or everyone would die otherwise (2-4 again and 3-1). In Kirumi's case, she was willing to sacrifice 13 of her citizens for a chance to save the ones outside. Has she (or anyone that's not Kokichi) never considered the possibility that Monokuma's lying?

Yes, I know Ryoma technically consented, but I don't count it because he's suicidal and depressed. It just makes Kirumi look worse to me, because she took advantage of him and didn't even have the decency to give him a quick, painless death.

In the end, I don't dislike her as a character, but as a person? She's despicable, and it unavoidably bleeds into my overall opinion of her.

I actually like that she's despicable. Better than another "sympathetic" Ch2 killer though they're still not getting much points for just barely breaking formula

I guess what I don't like is that I'm not sure whether or not the game wanted it to be portrayed as such since nobody really calls her out

i agree with pretty much all of this, although it's my reason to like her as opposed to dislike her. i think there's an interesting tension to be explored in someone who constantly parrots an ideal of 'selfless devotion' and uses that as justification to behave in an incredibly selfish way (and yes, do a lot of dastardly, craven, unforgiveable shit). i do wonder how much of that was intentional on the part of the writers but hey, i can have fun with it regardless.

i think the least interesting possible way to interpret kirumi is to take her claims of selflessness and service to country at face value.

i think the least interesting possible way to interpret kirumi is to take her claims of selflessness and service to country at face value.

That's exactly what the game does unfortunately. That's why painting grey morality to her character makes her even less interesting than she already is.

I won't say she's a good person, but she clearly gives some weight to Chapter 2's motive beyond justifying trying to save herself or she would've just committed murder during chapter 1 and gotten out with minimal fuss.

To me, Kirumi was the "Ultimate Bait" since I knew by instinct she wasn't going to survive. Either she was the killer or the victim and unsurprisingly didn't move me as much when I knew she was the killer. Most of her character was up to the teeth of what she does, which is serving others. And in most cases, that's just way too convenient to the cast's situation. So by that logic, it was just not worth the effort to feel any sort of connection to her. Feels like Kodaka wanted a Peko without a significant other and more of a personal maid/guard to anyone. Which doesn't work out well and make her character flat. Doesn't help her FTEs/Love Hotel scene is heavily related to her talent (hell, even Tsumugi was more original and she was faking it).

But like Tsumugi, I do like her design though. They did nail the Victorian outfit for her. And her English VA is the same as 2B from Nier: Automata, which is another plus. Definitely not my least favorite character but she is fairly weak to most of the cast.

I really liked Kirumi in Ch1. Generally your first impressions of characters at that point are already kind of shallow, but just having a collected, decisive, intelligent character around was fine for the beginning of the game and I really liked her section of the trial where she accuses Gonta

She really just needed more to do, I suppose. Give her another personality quirk so she can actually play off of the cast. Make her the Ch4 killer so the class is believably attached to her at that point. I'd also change her motive to almost exactly the same, except it's brought up that she's probably not really telling the truth about her intentions, and she actually just wants to escape for her own needs. That's more human and I think it'd work well for Kirumi

I think she would've been fleshed out just fine given more time in the game. As is, she's pretty forgettable and her murder plan is just moronic. I'd also get rid of the prime minister twist entirely as is. It's just too...silly. Like it would be a perfectly fine motive if we had like an Ultimate Politician character. They could be like Paul Atishon and be this generally smarmy guy, but randomly making Kirumi a prime minister still just feels so strange to me. There was a meme post about it the other day but it really does feel like if in Mondo's post-trial, he confesses to killing Chihiro because he's the prime minister. Like wtf. The idea is so bizarre to me that I don't see how it works on paper or with the execution. It could work a little better with Sonia or an Ultimate Politician character but as is I just don't get it

I do like Kirumi's manipulative side despite my other problems with the post-trial, and how she never gave up even when it was over

So overall, I like her but she's too forgettable and doesn't have enough time in the game, as well as being forced into a really awkward twist

Rock! ✊ I lose

Kirumi's case pretty much screams to me that they just chop together bits and pieces from previous DR characters to make new ones, since like you said it's pretty much Sonia's motive if you were to make her a killer. Making that as a reveal is bad enough, but the fact that they do the Truman Show twist at the end makes it even crappier since the conclusion of case 2 implies you'll learn exactly what kind of disaster led to her need in the first place later in the game, but because it never pays off, it just feels like a pointless middle finger.

I get what they were going for, but just because it was intentional doesn't mean they didn't terribly miss the mark.

Kirumi is more boring that Tsumugi don't @ me

I think Kirumi is the least fleshed-out character by far out of the students in this game. There are only two facets to her personality: Super Mom and the uber-determined Prime Minister of Japan. That being said, her design is very nice. She's not a sexy French maid with exaggerated cleavage and lace, she's dressed like what a normal maid would be. Also, her execution is my favorite one out of the third game. It is the greatest showing of despair in the whole franchise, only topped by Chiaki's in DR3. I just wish she didn't kill my favorite character in the franchise, Ryoma, just to see that.

She was pretty straight forward. I felt she was completely uninspiring in a way that unlike characters of chapters 1 and 2, her ftes weren't entertaining unless you liked the character beforehand and they didn't anything in terms of expanding she as well. She had an interesting point about morality attached to her character where she had the struggle if it was right to trade everyone's lives for a noble motive but this isn't anything ground breaking in game that you have a lot of other characters with different morals like korekiyo, ouma, saihara, ryoma and angie and since this is DR, this moral aspect is never explored as part of her character or even debated, we only discover it when she already commits her crime (and even then it's a side she shows over a specific situation rather than a trait or characteristic that is part of her character) and the trial does nothing about that because it's about kirumi trying to escape and her twist and even if it raises some interesting questions about her character like a maid that got this kind of mindset, it's all pointless and just a nice ornament when the narrative does nothing with that. Her send off was really damaging because on top of everything in the game that completely denies a more interesting possible view about her character like a lot of people here stated being her selfishness, the point that several people in the cast cheers up for her and saihara still feels remorse before and after, angie considers reviving her, clearly shows that the game expects you to feel sympath and go for a moral grey direction and even if it doesn't work (like it didn't with me) what matters here is how the game takes it, the canon material.

She climbed the vine which in turn got best boy Monosuke killed. So fuck her.

[+13]I've been waiting for this

A lot of people have seen me gush for Kirumi before so I'll spare you that. I will instead just share my thoughts on her character.

Kirumi had so much potential as a character, and it was unfortunately squandered. Her FTE's failed to humanize her, her "only flaw" is cutting konjac of all things (I actually thought it was a joke at first, but the game ran with it till the end), and her trials plot twist is well... not that impactful. I get what they were going for, but killing the prime minister just didn't move me much. For a while, Kirumi sat at the low end of characters for V3.

Then, Love Hotels happened. I don't know what I was expecting going in, but the feels from her event made me empathize with her. It still didn't change my opinion on her right away, until I thought about it for a while. The reason I believe Kirumi had so much potential really all stems from one line in her event. I can't remember it word for word, but it essentially is this:

"Despite the fact that I am the Ultimate Maid, I do not have control over my own emotions."

For me, that opened a lot of ways to interpret her actions. I can't begin to imagine the stress of suddenly being told that I'm supposed to be leading a country, and for someone who's not emotionally stable that must be crushing. Her emotional issues also resolve a plot hole: if she wanted to escape, why didn't she just tell everyone that she was the Prime Minister? I believe it was regret. She realized killing Hoshi was a mistake, even if she didn't admit it to herself.

Had they focused more on her real problems, not konjac, I'm convinced she would be much more liked. Unfortunately, not being able to cut konjac will go down as her only defining character trait. And I'm salty about that.

Edit: In my opinion, if there was a DRV3 IF, Kirumi would be my second in line to be the protagonist (behind Kaede, of course). Maybe it would have worked the same wonders it did with Mukuro.

Guess I'll keep it relatively short.

I like her design, personality, intelligence, and her VA. However, she is not really meant a dynamic character. But, she made the biggest impression (no pun intended) during the end of chapter 2. I don't think I have ever seen a character in the game more determined to survive and that made the execution that much more brutal.

I don't think she killed Ryoma just because she wanted to get out. I don't think things would play out the same way if she didn't get her own motive video. Besides, Team DR kind of written her to have that kind of motive to drive her and it is implied that she does have the intelligence and skill to accomplish her requests.

IMO, Kirumi's main issue is that she suffers from The Curse of Chapter 2. All characters that die in Chapter 2 (with arguable exception of Chihiro who sorta gets to live on as Alter Ego) can be summed up with "cool character, shame I didn't really get know them."

Characters that die in Chapter 1 are either given a lot of attention so their death will come off as shocking or were never really meant to last in the first place. And by Chapter 3, you tend to have a good idea about what the surviving cast are like. As a result Chapter 2 is a transitioning point where you know enough about the characters to be interested, but not enough to be deeply invested. And Kirumi is no exception, which is a shame because I feel that she could have been a fan-favorite if she had lived longer.

The main reason I realized Kirumi's character writing was bad was by the simple fact that it's impossible not take her character as something interesting without the need to expand her character and your interpretation about her a lot in comparison with the game, where she is straight forward and one note as she can get and I think this discussion itself is a proof about this.

I can see where you are coming from and yeah, her character doesn't really have any double takes from what the game presents you just like most characters in v3. Sometimes the fandom won't recognize Kodaka's flaws as writer and be scared of seeing it as bad and make up theories that aren't canon with a mindset that the game clearly doesn't follow to fill the holes in the story or from the characters. In the end her character is very one dimensional as possible and flawed, there isn't anything really deep or subtle from it and it only shows how she got a bad treatment in terms of writing when half of the important and sometimes really simple questions about her character goes unanswered (really, if kodaka couldn't even be able to achieve the most basic with her, pretty obvious that him gave a poor attention to her in overall) and I wish Kodaka could have thought in a better writing for her.

[removed]

-1 points 17 days ago 
I am not talking about personal tastes but something that there's no subjectivity: a character in a story have a personality, role and etc. By the moment said character relies too much in fans to fill the holes that isn't good writing(something that doesn't happens with ouma, he's a character that the game makes on purpose open for interpretations in certain points). Something like that even take fans to interpret those characters based in their theories and have views that completely differs or weren't impplied from the main source material.Not everything in a story is for you to take as the way you want to: your interpretation isn't the canon. I am not judging others for their tastes but saying that this definitely isn't a good sign in writing.

[removed]

-1 points 17 days ago* 
Exactly, a character left for the audience to fill up with their ideas isn't a bad thing when the story have ways to make it clear, being by saihara's (the player) confused views and ambiguity in ouma's behaviors so with him it works because that's the way he was written in mind. There's no problem with the own player's interpretation of a work: the problem lies in taking it as the canon material when the canon doesn't imply that. Some characters unfortunately only have that as way of fill the flaws their writing got, it's not perfect after all, but that simply will never be canon and that is bad writing from kodaka because he didn't flesh out or made his characters that hadn't a specific writting as ouma clear like they should be.

See the whole "ouma is a nazist or have nazist influences" as an example.

[removed]

-1 points 17 days ago 
my point was that kirumi is also left up to fill one's ideas, as are most characters since not every single thing about them is known. one can interpret kirumi as incredibly selfish, incredibly selfless, showing seflessness to hide selfishness - all of this is left up to interpretation and so, is it bad writing?

No - Kodaka has stated himself that there's no selfishness in mind about her character in her own artbook page and that she is a caring and person no matter what just like it's in the game. The main reason we have sometimes absurds theories taken as canon is because people can't accept that characters have flaws in writing (sometimes a lot) and are more simple than they imagine. Korekiyo is a different topic because kodaka himself stated that you can interpret his sister on your own in his artbook, talked about how ouma and tsumugi are like that too. See? It's fine when the story actually makes clear that it's up to you, after all it's needed to make the player know about that.

He...did not? I checked his comment on her page and he said nothing of the sort. At the most, he said that her character was based around perfection, but nothing about whether she's entirely selfless or selfish.

Check the part where it's mentioned about ouma's teasing.

It goes without saying that she is got all the practical abilities, but she also so deeply kind-hearted that Ouma and Gonta treat her as a mother and takes serving others as a philosophy.

Still though, that's not technically Kodaka's comment, and while it's a refute to people saying she's completely selfish, it doesn't really negate people interpreting her as more so than simply devoted. If anything it's just more of the surface level "selfless devotion" stuff she talks about.

continue this thread
[removed]

Because not all characters in a story are built for purely own interpretations as a canvas and that's okay. Again, the main problem is not interpreting something differently but seeing that as canon when it's not.

[removed]

continue this thread

-2 points 17 days ago 
I agree with you. If her character had any canon ambiguity the characters or narrative would simply point the irony and hypocrisy of her decision, morals and principles. Some characters call her out but this is never brought up. It's clear that this is a topic that never got any work in the game since the previous focus is all for her foreshadowing.

Yes, exactly. It's not like there isn't room for that, it's just that it isn't canon.

i don't think interpretations of subjective qualities like selflessness fall into the realm of canon. 'she claims to be selfless, but i observe that she acts in ways that are inconsistent with those claims' isn't an issue of canonization. if people were saying 'i believe kirumi is devoted to serving others because her father, the butler from the remains of the day, instilled that quality in her at a young age,' then yeah, that's elaborating upon canon. as it is, we're just interpreting personality traits of the character. i don't think we as readers need permission from the narrative to do a thing like that.

Yes, I see what you mean, it's just that the canon completely doesn't take that direction with her character. It wasn't made on purpose. I have no problem with theories as long people don't affirm them like they are actually part of the canon traits of said character or that the game took certain direction when it didn't, just like what i said above. Kirumi's action was selfish for the player and even I agree but the game never see it as that even after her death (where almost everyone cheers up for her and saihara explicity feels bad for exposing her), doesn't treat her as a selfish person but actually just selfless devoted, no matter the situation, so in other words, it's like it doesn't even matter since nothing comes from that in canon material (that doesn't even acknowledge her "selfishness" if it's even there) that benefits her character and give that ambiguty and this isn't subjective, it's a fact, canon, just like the person above me before (b1tbot) had a really valid point that is true in game. It's never brought up even in her ftes (that are more focused in the twist rather her character) but it's okay if it's very only theories from fans.

I like the idea of completely terrible person kirumi. It contrasts in an interesting way with her talent and it gives her character depth but it's crystal clear that kodaka didn't take this direction with her character or else, he would need to change her reasons to serve others and another points of her character to make sense and also (again, just like the person before me metioned) point out the hypocrisy of her principles, acting and selfishness of her character to make it clear that this is a important point in the characterisation of kirumi but nothing of this is canon of course. The main (and only honestly) personal trait she has in canon it's her own principle and her death was consequence of her selfless devotion to her duty.

Conveying Kirumi's character to the audience and making them like her was kind of an uphill battle from the start simply because, like with Tsumugi, her characterisation keeps her out of the foreground. Kirumi is a loyal servant and there's no getting around that. She puts the needs of others first, she doesn't particularly revel in other's praise and she pretty much rejects any offers of help from others. It's almost a given that a character like this struggles to exude any presence because they're constantly trying to make it about somebody else.

V3 handled this conundrum by deciding that a character relegated to the background can use that to their advantage with an acquired skill set. Kirumi is shown to be both manipulative and observant, traits which are easier to harness when people aren't paying attention to you. In a relatively short space of time, she is able to win over the affection and trust of almost everyone around her, exploiting their dependency and even almost successfully turns everyone away from the logic being presented to them.

The effect the chapter 2 killer reveal has on the group can be interpreted in two different ways. Either it's bad writing because we haven't really seen much that would justify this level of betrayal from the group, to the point of almost denying the evidence in their face. Or, it can be interpreted as a testament to how good she is at manipulating others, that even with so little time with these people, they thoroughly trust her and struggle to accept the idea that she would lead them astray like this. Arguably, she has a better understanding of other people's hearts than Angie does and it's one of the few elements where the spider allusions hold water; she has weaved a trap that everyone is only too happy to fall right into.

And a lot of this probably makes it sound like I think she's down right sinister, which isn't true. I think she's ruthless. I think she had a supreme level of determination, but not like Kaito's "the how doesn't matter" attitude. Kaito is determined to see a goal reached no matter what that quest costs him. Kirumi will see a task completed no matter what it costs anyone. I like how the "ultimate maid" isn't just a yes man/woman. She berates and scolds her charges when she feels like they're not living up to their potential. This isn't blind loyalty, she will do whatever she needs to do to help someone, but she wants them to eventually help themselves and sometimes that calls for her to be harsh on them.

It's not all smooth sailing with Kirumi though. Her portrayal in the main plot, I'm happy with. Outside of it, less so. I fell into that trap of letting my imagination run wild and developing unjust expectations of a character just based on what I think they could've been.

Kirumi's support isn't tied to one specific person, or ideology. It's more generalised and I wanted to know why that was. There were a lot of interesting directions they could've taken that in. Maybe she has little self-worth, so the only way she can imagine people wanting to be around her is if she's useful to them, that would explain why she struggles with understanding that Kaede and Shuichi just want to hang out with her. Maybe she's just emotionally stunted and has to vicariously experience joy through others, their happiness is her happiness. Instead, her motivation is simply to see others reach their full potential which is just a bit too idealistic for my liking. Nobody can truly be entirely selfless, so it would've been nice to see her gain something from this "selfless devotion" of hers. At best, we can infer that it's a matter of pride, she gets satisfaction in knowing that she had a hand in their success, but that kind of ego boost clashes with how much she shrugs off praise.

Oh, and the konjac thing...I can see what they're going for here. They allude to the idea that Kirumi is a bit too perfect, to the point where it's a detriment to her job, since her charges feel uncomfortable approaching her. Giving her a rather comical thing to get so hung up about is a nice way of humanising her, reminding us that at the end of the day, this is still a high school student underneath that perfect servant persona many people see. But I get where people are coming from when they say it's a bit of a let down as both an FTE topic and her Harmonious Heart.

Last thing I have to say, I love her visual design and voice work. Classy, elegant, sophisticated, ticks all the boxes for what she should be.

Oh thank god the hellish trio weeks are over

So as far as characters go, chapter one Kirumi is fantastic. She's a compelling enough character to really stand out, and like Ryoma in the first class trial, she's very helpful and I love her presence in the group. She's not out for blood, but she is very evidence driven in the class trial, going as far as accusing Gonta when she deduces a possible method for him to commit the murder. Of course, like Ryoma, she's quite respectful as she does this and profusely apologizes when proven wrong. She makes it clear that there's no malice in her actions and she's simply acting on the best interests of the group.

She feels almost a little too perfect (in a good way—it tips the player that something is off) in that she's fully cooperative, and even though the idea of having someone cook and clean for them makes several members of the cast feel quite uncomfortable, she still offers to help everyone as a way of supporting them and makes it clear it's not too much for her. It's an interesting dynamic and one that makes her feel quite commanding and almost leaderlike without overshadowing others, particularly Kaede. In fact, she does respect Kaede quite a bit and almost takes orders from her and even insists on carrying on Kaede's wishes.

As Kaede points out, Kirumi's best and worst quality is her desire to help everyone, but it ends up sending the wrong message because she's not considerate of her own desires. She comes off as more stiff and more just a little too subservient to Kaede (I even got uncomfortable myself when she doesn't understand that Kaede simply wanted to spend time with her and it creates a rift between the two) and then Kaede gets her to reevaluate her actions.

All in all, I love how she's both stern and objective yet supportive and helpful. She, much like Ryoma, manages to have a great presence in the game and stand out early on.

I think it unfortunately doesn't play out as well in the main chapter focusing on her in case 2. She's still largely the same, but there are three things I feel that end up harming the quality of this case: 1) the timing 2) the character focus and 3) the killing game rules.

I feel like they rushed her and shoehorned her into the mom role too fast for the payoff of killing her. I also felt that she and Ryoma had more of the interesting cast dynamics of the group and even if you still kill them both off, I'd rather see them live longer before sending them off. I'm not against Kirumi being a killer, but we don't really get to have her cemented role as the supportive mom (the point they keep trying to stress over and over by several characters calling her a mom) and I think it'd work better to have her act as a chapter 4 killer so we have more time for her support to feel more genuine and then we have her reach her breaking point.

This also really has the effect of making Kirumi feel extremely recycled. We hadn't even shown who the victim was and Kirumi was my top murder suspect with Tenko slightly following her. They constantly remark on how she's the mom of the group and it reminds me much of how Mahiru was explicitly called the motherly character of the group and how much her FTEs revolved around basic chore work and having to deal with that. The fact that Kirumi is a servant who will carry out any task without question, her dark color scheme, her surprisingly frank and direct style of discussion and disregard for her own personal desires in favor of serving someone else reminded me much of Peko (even moreso when you remember that Peko had a secret side that loved maid outfits), and even the reveal of Kirumi being a political head motivated by trying to save her people is pretty much Sonia if you decided to make Sonia a killer since she made it clear numerous times that she'd gladly die for her people and that she is their servant before she is even a person in her view.

It just so happens that Mahiru, Peko, and Sonia served as the victim, killer, and a red herring respectively of DR2-2, and those connections really made Kirumi just feel really rushed and thrown together from bits of chapter 2 tropes. I pointed out how her personality really felt like she'd make a solid leader herself, so I could actually see Kirumi doing that, but…it just still felt like a giant stretch that they pull out "oh by the way this high school girl happens to be the de facto leader of a huge nation and she's gonna sacrifice you for a vague danger that will never actually be integrated into the story because we want to do a Truman show twist at the end." She feels really stock and unoriginal because of that, and though I couldn't have made the Sonia connection since that's shown after she's outed, everything else just put her on the radar as the chapter 2 killer.

One of the big issues the series can run into is that there's much more focus on the killer at the cost of attention for the victim, and I feel that's definitely the case here. Even looking at the other second cases, they're very aware of where a killer does and doesn't deserve sympathy. Mondo kills Chihiro and his behavior is mostly misdirecting out of a desire to respect Chihiro's secret and hide it while also trying to figure out who desecrated his corpse. He doesn't try to resist the execution and just accepts the punishment and doesn't try to make any excuses for himself. He does a shitty thing and his own inability to control himself brought the tragedy about, but the game knows that we can still feel for Mondo without having to entirely side with him.

Likewise, Peko cruelly kills Mahiru, frames Hiyoko (even if Hiyoko is an extremely mean-spirited bully, she still doesn't deserve a frameup) and is willing to sacrifice everyone else including herself if it means benefiting Fuyuhiko. The game then explores her incredibly unhealthy mindset and Fuyuhiko's as well, and we can still feel for both of them and the game doesn't try to excuse it. We can understand where she's coming from without having to side with her or downplay how unfairly Mahiru's life ended. Peko's dying words to the group are her regretting her actions and urging everyone not to act as senselessly as she does. The games never felt like they had to set up some grand gesture for Peko or Mondo because they were aware of where they do and don't deserve sympathy and the tone the killers take after being cornered. Neither were amazing or entirely sympathetic people, but they're still compelling characters because the game realizes murder is still a horrible thing to do so look at what drives someone to that point.

Kirumi has several similar things, and she doesn't try to excuse it, but the issue is that Ryoma is pretty much completely ignored this time around. Chihiro gets to be praised and come back including an entire portion of discussion with Alter Ego about him and Ishimaru's guilt about being unable to help either of them. Mahru gets the benefit of Hiyoko being justifiably angry at Fuyuhiko in chapter 3 as well as Fuyuhiko himself later saying he's going to hold a funeral and pay his respects not just to Peko, but to Mahiru as well knowing what a shitty thing he stupidly caused.

With Ryoma, we pretty much discuss nothing about him, and even when Kirumi is outed, even people I feel should have more closeness to Ryoma like Kaito is more willing to stick up for kirumi as opposed to the "depressed but still trying his best" Ryoma he looked up to and nobody really fixates on how incredibly shitty it is to take advantage of the suicidal tendencies of a boy for your own gain. Because Kirumi is actively trying to escape even by having everyone riot and give her a chance to get out, she dies with that belief and we don't get that same moment of at least some kind of regret and Ryoma just gets largely unnoticed. Sure, there's a heartbreaking scene seeing nobody cared about him, but pretty much nobody in the group ever really focuses on Ryoma because it's centered around Kirumi and her struggle.

I feel pretty strongly about this too, but no, it's not made better by the fact that Ryoma "consented" to being killed by her. Such an implication is incredibly disgusting, and even if she didn't know Ryoma was pushed over the edge by the motive video, she still knew he was suicidal and depressed—the game makes it clear and even Kirumi herself points out that's why she went after him to begin with. It'd be one thing if they just went full on villainous with it or at least point out "I don't deserve your sympathy," but it's easily the worst example of the killer overshadowing the victim to a harmful degree. The fact that everyone was on the verge of sacrificing themselves is pretty out there too. Yes they have to indirectly kill everyone in the class trials so even if she offed someone and succeeded Ryoma would die anyway, but she specifically chooses him and states that she knew he had little desire to live.

I do get it though. They're trying to show that she's making a tough call and it's the needs of the many vs. the needs of the few, but the game really doesn't focus much on someone taking advantage of a suicidal boy, and that's such a big deal that I feel it's a failure not to have that be front and center. Ryoma casually offered his life in chapter 1 and then firmly retracts the offer when others like Rantaro and Kaede start to call him out on it, and even Ryoma points out that he needs to change.

I feel pretty strongly about this too, but no, it's not made better by the fact that Ryoma "consented" to being killed by her. Such an implication is incredibly disgusting, and even if she didn't know Ryoma was pushed over the edge by the motive video, she still knew he was suicidal and depressed—the game makes it clear and even Kirumi herself points out that's why she went after him to begin with.

I agree that somebody should actually stick up for Ryoma, but in the context of Kirumi, this actually made me like her character more. I think she isn't a sympathetic murderer, she's just trying to portray it that way. Almost like she's a parody of the standard sympathetic killer, with all of the played out "greater good" reasons (although I doubt it was meant to come off that way).

For example, the PM of Japan twist didn't really bother me even though it is another dumb, shock-value twist. Partly because she's about to get killed so the implications of this reveal mean nothing, but also because she totally believes this ridiculous thing because she wants to justify selfish actions.

There's debate on whether Kirumi is truly selfish or not, I think she is. But because she's so focused on serving others, she feels the need to make up all these justifications- "he was going to die anyway so what I did wasn't bad", "it's for the greater good of my country", "My client of Japan supersedes the client of the cast, so I'm not betraying anyone", etc. The fact that she has "good intentions", and the fact that the cast buys it and nearly offers another life in exchange for her escape, only emphasizes for me how unforgivable and cruel she really is, and I find that refreshing after the morally gray first case.

Also the fact that she completely bails and is so desperate to survive was cool after so many characters seem fine with just accepting their fate. For me it hammered home how desperate and human she is after seeming almost machine-like in the first 1.5 chapters.

it also emphasizes how stupid and pliable the v3 cast is, because they are willing to let a lot of snaky shit slide when they get all up in their feelings. to wit, i know there wasn't time for a whole big convo because k1-b0 started destroying the school pretty instantly after the fifth trial, but someone really should have chucked a 'not cool' maki's way.

I don't think she's a parody of the sympathetic killer if everyone feels strongly enough about her cause that they're willing to actually be thrown under the bus for her. I guess you could feel maybe they were taken in by her manipulation, but that's not really separable from the fact that they just do that and nobody is really harsh toward her nor do we have any kind of resolution for Ryoma.

compare it to say, Korekiyo where everyone is confused and all, but nobody really feels hurt by losing him specifically nor do they try to indulge his way of thinking. They wouldn't have Kaito say to stop ganging up on Kirumi if he didn't have some degree of being able to see where she's coming from even if he calls her mindset a bunch of crap. They wouldn't be willing to sacrifice themselves if they didn't sympathize to some degree.

I don't think she's a parody of the sympathetic killer if everyone feels strongly enough about her cause that they're willing to actually be thrown under the bus for her.

I guess I should say that it's more of a nod to the audience that it's absurdly over the top. It's like the opposite of when a parody becomes what it was intended to make fun of. Although that's only my interpretation.

Everyone feels bad, but it's clear to the players that Monokuma would never accept a trade (although that would be a wild plot twist). Actually letting Kirumi go would never work for plot reasons. So since that trade idea was never a meaningful debate, to me it further emphasized how ridiculous her "justifications" are. If you saw a murder and the culprit says "this looks bad, but trust me I'm the prime minister", you'd "lol okay dumbass", not "say no more, I'll cover for you". It unintentionally pokes fun at how desperate the culprit and cast are to believe that there is some rhyme or reason to these horrific events when it could just be that Kirumi wants to survive and is perfectly fine with everyone dying to achieve that.

I feel like I'm not really explaining it well, but to me DGR often tries to make culprits sympathetic and they tried so hard to do so for Kirumi that she looks so much worse as a result.

I feel like I'm not really explaining it well, but to me DGR often tries to make culprits sympathetic and they tried so hard to do so for Kirumi that she looks so much worse as a result.

I get where you're coming from, but for me it's not the actual dilemma that makes them sympathetic. It's pretty clear Monokuma would never actually offer it. I'm talking about the tone of the game.

When the characters talk about her cause and act like they made a huge mistake in a wrong vote, they do that because they care enough about her situation to bother listening and to even consider sacrificing themselves.

in previous cases like the Peko case, we can still understand why Peko did what she did--above everything she has a really unhealthy mindset and acts like she's not any good to fuyuhiko for anything she can offer as a person like love and support and treats herself more as his servant, something that's been beaten into her by their abusive family lifestyle.

We can understand her, but the game never ignores the fact that the whole scenario could have been avoided, that she cruelly murders Mahiru and unfairly takes her life for her own selfish reasons, that she's willing to throw everyone else under the bus to save fuyuhiko, and that as she says herself, it's a really stupid, selfish, and reckless decision she made.

I never once felt they were trying to "parody" a sympathetic culprit with Kirumi but instead just tried to make one and it failed horribly. In general, I think Danganronpa just overdoes it with trying to make sympathetic killers and feel that a lot of the characters would be better if they could just be outright villains.

Kirumi has the "needs of the many" angle, but for me it's not about Monokuma's dilemma and more the fact that they never really call her out on deciding to hunt down a suicidal boy and subjecting him to a slow, painful death of all things and then insisting everyone sacrifice her.

With cases like the funhouse case with gundham and Nekomaru, you can still see their actions as justified and sympathetic because the only alternative is for everyone to die, so their logic that at least someone gets to survive this way and they can move everyone forward makes sense.

I can't call it a parody when it takes all the steps to play it 100% straight and seriously, and I think calling it a parody is giving the writing team way too much credit. They've done it before where Monokuma made an offer to Fuyuhiko asking if he wanted to save himself or not, and it was obvious he wasn't serious he was going to offer it. That's not what I'm focused on though. This is the same game that portrayed Maki as totally fine after she attempted to throw everyone else under the bus for her own desires, after all.

For me it's the fact that Kirumi is awarded sympathy and understanding she doesn't deserve since she makes no real effort that would warrant them reasonably listening to what she wants.

I think this case is tremendously held back by the killing game's rules, and I think it'd be much better if they had the rule where only the voted party is executed and intentionally ignoring evidence or rulings results in a mass execution instead. By doing it this way, you can have a setup where Kirumi kills Ryoma and sets it up to look like he committed suicide.

By doing it this way, we can have the focus of the case be "what kind of person is Ryoma?" You can have some characters argue he'd never kill himself and they owe it to Ryoma to bring his killer to justice. This not only helps Ryoma get more focus, but it also makes Kirumi much more of a threat. It'd be perfectly in character and not stand out at all for Kirumi, who we've established well in case 1 acts on the interests of the group like when she accuses Gonta, to be the one pushing for voting that Ryoma committed suicide because that way there's no risk in anyone being harmed or potentially identifying the wrong person as the culprit. It helps fix two major issues with the case at once and I feel is more thematically interesting for a game built around truth/lies.

There's also the fact that Kirumi arguably has one of the most pointless murder plans in the entire series since half of it is largely unnecessary. She kills at a time pretty much nobody has an alibi, and half the evidence she left around or set up is what leads to her getting caught. I realize the case has to be solvable, but doing it this way has the effect of making your killer seem like a complete idiot, and it doesn't really mesh well for me.

There are two main ways to work around this in murder mysteries. The first is make it clear that the murder wasn't premeditated. When you have someone kill in the heat of the moment like in self-defense, they don't have the luxury of planning things out and have to make things up as they go along. It's why you can get away with them making simple mistakes like missing something because they're in a rush and not in a normal state of thinking.

The other way is for some kind of small detail they couldn't have reasonably counted on to bite them in the ass. A perfect example is the doorknob evidence in the funhouse case. Gundham couldn't have reasonably known that Nekomaru almost broke the handle earlier by putting so much pressure on it, so it doesn't make Gundham look stupid when it breaks off since he had no real way of preparing for that.

Kirumi's plan largely makes little to no sense and really exists because they wanted to do a "get rid of the body by burning/consumption" twist, which is kind of the first go to idea I've seen done in a number of fancases, and even then I've seen fan cases take the idea more creatively. (Never forget Hiyoko burgers) The thing with destroying the body is that it generally doesn't really change much for the actual logic of the mystery because you still have to write it as being solvable for the player. Suspension of disbelief as to why you wouldn't just stab someone with a knife and run away is one thing, but I do feel it kind of makes the killer look bad if they didn't think their plan through to this degree.

Beyond that, I do like how manipulative she is during the class trial, even trying to bring back Kaede against everyone. But there's also just some of the case logic that makes her look dumb. I have trouble buying that she just leave the inner tube in the pool and didn't just try and find something to retrieve it or clean it up the next morning and play it off as her maid duties. I can't really buy that nothing else in the entire building could have been those black scraps and that there's absolutely nothing else that could have possibly matched it. I can't really buy that she's desperate to escape if the best counter argument she has is that you don't have proof of your claims instead of trying to make alternate solutions. Kirumi, who had access to several people's rooms, couldn't take advantage of that fact? She can't bother to cast doubt on Kokichi "I constantly lie" Ouma's testimony when it's crucial to convicting her? I know it's her alibi earlier, but again, this plan just doesn't make much sense. Instead she just kind of says "you don't have proof" and I feel there's a much more interesting mystery to be made with her character and ryoma's, and even the emotional payoff feels off because they don't really focus much on this unbelievably shitty move she pulls in killing Ryoma so cruelly.

Either quit trying to have a sympathy angle for the culprits and go all in with villainy, or change the circumstances of the cases to help that sympathetic angle make more sense.

I loved chapter 1 Kirumi, but her sendoff in chapter 2 beyond that really left her on a sour note for me.

When you consider the general characteristics of DR, such as that nobody ever hears anyone screaming (or even remember to scream before dying) or that people like to randomly wander to spots where they can be easily killed, most of the cases should be unsolvable when compounded with the fact that all the murderers tend to have improbable luck to get whatever their crazy plan to work in the first place. So there should be some kind of equalizer instead of inventing ways for murderers to screw up. For example in Kindaichi a lot of the murderer's mistakes come from trying to evade the invincible, noisy camera crew, and it's understandable you got to take extra risks and hoops to avoid an unkillable guy whose only purpose is walking around and filming everyone 24/7.

Given that the general DR setting would have Monokuma prefer the murderers get caught (if his goal is to just kill everyone it's really not that hard to just do it) the equalizing factor should come from Monokuma. It can simply be that Monokuma requires the murderer to do certain things in addition to just offing someone at night in a remote location for drama reasons. Maybe make it like the NG code where each person has something only known to them that they must fulfill in addition to murder.

That's a good point, yeah. It can be tough to work around equalizers like that. I do think that if a murder is premeditated, then having some kind of situation that came up the killer has no real control over can tremendously help catch them without it feeling like they made the villain make a pointless mistake to keep the case solvable.

A really simple but decisive one is Nagito not realizing that the Diary he stole from Monomi would tell Hajime who the traitor was. He had no way of knowing that chiaki was the only one who could have written the final dead room entry, so it makes sense that he doesn't think to destroy it or something so it doesn't ruin his plan. In the case of someone like Leon in DR 1, he makes a number of dumb mistakes, but he also has to think and move at the same time.

I do think the Monokuma rule system might do well, but I think some if it comes down to just their nuts and bolts writing not being quite there yet.

In general I think DR murders have way too much time for the murderer to casually do whatever he wants and it'd be good if there's at least some time constraint involved. Since chapter 1 was brought up, that's a good example of how plenty of plausible deduction exist when you're not hurting for time. We're supposed to believe that Makoto wouldn't have cleaned up the room had he been the murderer, but he could've simply done that to throw people off. After all, we know whoever the murderer was had plenty of time to clean up the room. Now if there was evidence that the murderer was in a hurry but still cleaned up the room, you can at least argue that had it been Makoto, it'd make no sense to waste precious time combing the room for his own hair when he's in a hurry. It wouldn't be a conclusive argument, but much better than the ones the game made.

And while we're on chapter 1, Chihiro alleged that Hina might be covering for Makoto, and it was Monokuma who said that there were no accomplices in this murder which indirectly verifies Hina's testimony. It also establishes that Kyoko could not have been Makoto's accomplice (for some reason nobody questioned why she's so insistent on defending him) and this allegation can literally go on forever if someone made it. I think this is the kind of stuff Monokuma needs to do, to verify things that otherwise would go in circles forever. Even if you trust Hina, she's not exactly the smartest girl out there and maybe she claimed to see the knife missing when Byakuya essentially questioned whether she's smart enough to remember all that out of spite. If Monokuma occasionally produced recordings of events that are otherwise impossible to verify that'd also establish his creditability and explain why the eventual Monokuma-rigs-the-evidence cases are actually shocking.

I don't care about anything apart from the fact she's hot.

Kirumi is a character that I am very mixed on. Most aspects of her are really good, but she has a few flaws that really drag her down. Ultimately I do think she's a good character overall, but with a couple of tweeks I think she could have been a top-tier character. I'll start with the positives first.

Kirumi's design is awesome. She's just a really cool character to look at. The spider web motif is used brilliantly, and the way her left eye is sometimes outlined through her hair is fucking badass. At all points through the game, Kirumi stands out as a character that is cool to look at. Her voice acting is great too. Kira Buckland does a really good job of portraying her as a sophisticated and respected, yet still mostly subservient young woman.

Her murder plan is one of the more elaborate and interesting in the series. It requires a degree of emotional detachment that isn't seen much through the series, and the fact that Kirumi came up with it, went through with it and went through a good majority of a trial knowing that she had done it without breaking her facade once shows that she is ice fucking cold when she needs to be. I remember seeing some fan art showing Kirumi and Korekiyo as the only cold-hearted killers of V3, and a lot of people disagreed with Kirumi being on there. I totally disagree. Kirumi's plan required a ton of set-up, the use of a suicidal man as essentially a prop, drowning someone with her bare hands, gliding over a decent distance at a pretty high elevation and traumatizing everybody who thought of her as a motherly figure. If that isn't a cold-hearted murder, I don't know what is.

Her execution is among my favorites in the series for its sheer brutality. Like holy shit she is put through the ringer, both mentally and psychologically before dying in an extremely painful manner. Thinking back on it, it's my second-favorite in the series, behind Leon's.

That being said, she has two huge negatives that I can't overlook.

The first is that she isn't all that well-developed. Her FTEs are among the least three-dimensional in the series, which is disappointing. I still enjoyed them for the most part due to her awesome design, but there is so much unexplored characterization, which prevents her from being a top-tier character.

Her second flaw is that her exposition dump is bad and makes her a worse character. Kirumi follows in the footsteps of Mondo and Peko as Chapter 2 killers who ultimately kill because they believe in something greater than themselves and are willing to sacrifice their own lives or their victim's lives because of it. Mondo believes that his biker gang that he put so much effort into building would collapse if they knew he killed his brother to become the leader. Peko believes that Fuyuhiko's life is more important than everyone else's, especially hers. With these two, the added exposition makes them deeper characters and makes their earlier content mean something more. Kirumi's doesn't do that. It just makes her a worse person because she selfishly thought that she was so good that every other person deserved to die so that she could lead Japan. It's awkward, forced and ultimately worthless.

If you take the positives of Kirumi's character and add them to someone who doesn't have her glaring weaknesses, she's easily a top-tier character. As it stands, she is a mixed bag who could have been so incredible with a couple of changes.

It's understandable that in one way or another this series wouldn't be able to have a full well written cast of characters and Kirumi is a victim in this, at a point that, kodaka himself revealed in her artbook page that her entire character was built mainly having her own twist in mind and that's the main focus her got, leaving any actual proper work in characterization in barebones. Despite dying early, her character got absolutely no excuse to be definitely the very one note that it is: previous games had characters like chihiro, mondo, sayaka, leon, imposter, teruteru, peko, mahiru and now kaede, amami and ryoma and all these characters had enough work for characterization and given some amount of depth that is very clear for the player, despite dying early as well. there's no between the lines anywhere and I won't treat her character this way as well so don't worry about me being redudant about her traits even because they are very common in her trope, just like how some other DR characters have very common traits with their tropes too but have other points that differ them.

Everything that comes great to about Kirumi's character isn't anything impressive and is extremely limited to just surface traits.Yeah, I am not scared of saying it: I often see praise in really simple traits like her elegant nature, design, intelligence and more redundant characteristics, then, call it a character. It's her lack of any proper writing work that reduces her good points into just being little details like "she was smart in trials" or "her acting in her trial was so cool" and to traits that usually are expected from the servants characters or that are blindly devoted characters (like kojuro from Basara that is pretty much male kirumi: intelligent, blindly devoted, great at doing many tasks, have great manners and composure).

Now, the game does pretty much nothing with what her character could possibly offer.The mom calling served more as meme than anything meaningful, there were no attempts in trying to turn her character more human (that's only brought up but never ever worked on).

A problem I have with DR in overall it's its obssession with trying too hard to paint a grey image to all characters (specially culprits) as possible and that doesn't translante as something good all the time and the chapter 2 trial itself is a proof. Kirumi's manipulation and some characters being supportive about her decision was just pushing things way too hard (even if you could argue that they would feel that way for japanese values being different, that's a terrible vague excuse that isn't pointed out in writing) and in overall the whole scene was used more as a shock value than anything else and it worked very well since it manages to trick people into thinking it was interesting: stopping some minutes to think about it, the whole characterization given to Kirumi in her trial only reinforced her selfless devotion one note character as just as not giving up until her very end. in the moment that a character faces important struggles or their climax in a story and still doesn't change anything or review their morals or ideals, that is unarguably really bad, it defeats the point of development and depth, there's none (See Kaede for example: facing the time limit, she felt forced to atc against her morals, same with amami. Ryoma? After seeing Shuichi's resolve and be teased by the motive videos by his unique chance, he is motivated to change his mind and take a different attitude. Gonta decided to kill someone and Himiko decided to change for better ). In few words: She followed her one dimensional character until the end. Kirumi would be a way more interesting character if she was "morally evil", without the game trying so bad to expand it to grey morallity, with a noble talent for a very specific reason (her character is not even close to be this canonically and it's just my wish).

Another point I have to complain it's her twist. It's bad. I am not even talking about how crazy it is specifically but the writing with the foreshadowing that was so poorly done that most players around found downright ridiculous just like DR style (or even way too much for DR) but the point is that Kodaka explicitly said that he wanted to make her twist feels natural and it clearly didn't work. With Maki it went nice because of her cold nature, she hiding her lab at chapter 2 and her treaths towards everyone that created a mysterious atmosphere towards her that pointed she maybe could be dangerous, it didn't tell you exactly that she was an assassin but that she had something not good going on. Kirumi worked for political people but she also worked with several other people in different situations, thinking she was the prime minister is way too specific and I am sure it would have been better if her character showed more attitude and a posture of someone in a political role towards the whole group like taking participation in important decisions but she can't because she is limited to be a maid, a terrible trope that is well known for damaging characterization most of the time, she being a excellent example of that. It also hurts her character a lot how her motive is treated as a serious matter to the point that characters offers their lives but is quick forgotten afterwards - it's all for the sake of shock value.

The worse is that her character isn't even appealling. Talking with her bores me to no end and she never breaks from her unnappealling self, only in love hotel, which isn't that much. Her FTEs are all foreshadowing to the twist like it was stated by kodaka himself in her artbook page so there's nothing going on that is actually interesting or that gives fair depth to her character, it's all about her talent rather her person.

Kirumi is ok. She have a good design with some nice aesthetics and a determined yet calm personality. My main problem with her, is the writting regarding the character. She doesn't contribute to anything about the story, she is just...There. The main problem with Kirumi and Ryouma, is that they got overshadowed by other characters' screentime (principally in chapter 2 where they play important roles), so they barelly get any attention or focus, causing them to be a bit too forgettable for not being properly explored or developed as a character. Not only this makes her motives not have a great impact but make look like chapter 2 was unnecessary for not add anything in the plot besides Maki's talent reveal. And for make it worse, she doesn't have a meaningful interaction with anyone, even though she constantly says that she wants the best for them. All you see is them asking her to clear something, cook etc., making it look like her talent had more importance than the character itself. So, Kirumi is a character that had a good design but the writting make her forgettable for not focus on her when they had to and neither have her at least have some kind of synergy with someone.

She was one of my favourite characters until her plot twist. I was hoping that she wasn't involved in Case 2, and as soon as Kokichi gave an alibi I kind of just assumed she was safe out of relief and tried to figure out who else it was (I concluded Kaito somehow).

And then she just became... a really dumb and cruel character out of nowhere and dropped down towards the bottom. At least with Kiyo he always had that air around him that something was off. With Tojo, she just snaps suddenly.

Like most issues with V3 characters though, in the end this really puts the blame more on Tsumugi being an awful writer and forcing ideals on to characters out of nowhere via Flashback lights. (My game theory with no real evidence to go on it with is that the Chapter 2 pads had specific lights for the intended targets that made them go "Oh yes, that's right" as the gaps get filled. Shuichi looking at Kaito's did nothing for him, but Tojo, Ryoma and Kokichi all had subtle tweaks to them activate from seeing theirs. Maybe.)

In a way, Tojo feels like an "Also Ran" horse for V3, in the same way Leon can be seen as one for DR1. They were there at the start of the race just to pad out the numbers and drop out early. She arrives, she kills, she dies, and that's her contribution. Nobody seems to miss her when she's gone, and as the Tojo that dies is barely recognisable to the Tojo you knew it's harder for the player to miss her too. At best you might just be a bit confused, but you're far more likely to not care for her because of the way she killed Ryoma (Whose death is such a gut puncher, does hit you hard).

Also it was kind of spoilt in the intro that she was a blackened when an execution was shown with a spider motif. That was kind of dumb.

The execution was in a dang trailer.

(Although to be fair, a spider web could also relate to a bug caught in a web for an entomologist, or since it was a reference to an old story, an anthropologist, but still.)

I liked her a lot.

She's a great example of why I like Danganronpa. She's pretty over the top. Her FTEs were hilarious to me. Just the idea of a freaking high school maid, Solid Snaking her way around to rescue a kidnapped chick just cracked me up so hard. And I love how she softens up, and even starts making jokes.

She has a beautiful design, a soothing voice, and I loved the team mom dynamic. And I didn't guess she'd be the culprit until the very end.

And her plan was really impressive. I am sure somewhere, she's pissed "Ropeway" didn't became a meme like "Seesaw".

The best waifu from v3, I mean her title is ultimate maid that should (2)be self explanatory. Her love hotel also helps.

I liked her design and thought she looked cool but overall thought she was pretty dull. I feel like her entire character and personality is overly centred on her being a maid, I thought her FTEs may expand the aspects of her personality but she remained quite flat for me anyway.

I think the second class trial excelled second best in the game (next to Kaede) in terms of attacking Kirumi's most basic desire as a character: to serve others. The motive I feel was directed towards her the most because while rest of the cast (sans Ryoma sadly) had friends and family, they weren't given a duty to serve them unlike Kirumi. It's a little on the nose, but the fact that her loved ones were the whole population of a country and not just two or three people, it really shows how targeted she was in chapter 2 to become the blackened. And from this motive it shows how warped her desire becomes, or rather what lengths she'll go to fill that desire. Murder, pulling heartstrings, deception, any method to get off the hook. Like some others have mentioned too, it begs the question of whether she was really serving the country, or herself and her own life.

To me though the impression I get is that as a "character" (in V3's universe) it works as a sort of experiment too. If participants become a blank slate and given a few basic traits as well as prime desires (to find the truth, to go to space, to lie) then in a way the killing games also serve as a sort of simulation to see how they can mix match different traits together and see who kills who, how, and why. In this case, it feels more fitting to me that she really was just that determined to serve her country, that her level of devotion and servitude were taken to their most logical extremes. It helps to show that how if there is no pull back or limit to a character's disposition (like how a thrill seeker may back down from an activity they deem too dangerous for them), they can go off the far end and commit atrocities like this.

I also feel like her execution was the most thematic in terms of showing how far she's willing to push her determination. She was her own executioner in a way, since even in the little pixel sequence we see her running to the right side of the screen, where Monokuma usually drags other students to their deaths. It plays with her determination and hope the most of of all students, since she wants to escape so badly that she's willing to climb a thorny vine and get sliced apart from saws. And by the time she reaches the top of the vine, she discovers the exit was only a delusion. I especially like the very short segment afterwards where you can see her still trying to reach after the exit despite it being a drawing. I think in her own way, it shows that she wasn't able to accept her death even to the very end, that it couldn't all be a lie she was climbing towards, and that she Kirumi Tojo, the Ultimate Maid, failed in her duties.

Kirumi is one of those characters that I feel toes the line between competent person with everything together, and being a Mary Sue, more on the former than the latter. I'm pretty sure she leans towards the latter, though her sendoff muddies things a bit.

Since she's introduced, it's emphasized that Kirumi is a very capable person who is very versatile as a maid. She's extremely loyal, and always seems to be reaching for requests to fulfill. She's a capable combatant, able to break into a criminal stronghold, as well as a strong enough negotiator to convince said criminals to change their ways and become productive members of society, with no repercussions. Also, she's a good leader, to the point that she unofficially takes over as the Prime Minister of Japan whom she is supposed to be a secretary to (which she also is).

In contrast, her character flaws are that she can't cut a certain vegetable, and that she is too dedicated to serving people. The former is of course a joke, and the latter doesn't come across as much of a character flaw throughout the story because of how satisfied she is with it. She reforms people, is able to help them live up to their full potential, makes them happy, and seems to have no other aspirations besides that. For all intents and purposes, Kirumi is obsessed with serving other in the way someone is obsessed with living their dream job.

For the most part, she's not very compelling to me, since I don't give point to characters just for being a "waifu", and I didn't really by her being the group mom because of how that was stuffed into one chapter. There are a lot of pros, and the cons really aren't too significant for the most part. Honestly, I would have been fine with just seeing her as a very competent person, rather than a Mary Sue until the Prime Minister twist popped up. It would have been more relatable if the people she served were being held captive, and they were begging her to save their lives-a different version of what we got, with an impossible request that kills people she knows and cares about, but feels more personal.

The murder of Ryoma and the trial is where her most interesting moments come around. Along with the weight of sacrificing many for the few, there's also the fact that she uses Kaede's death as leverage to try and worm her way out of suspicion. It's a really low move, and I think it does well to show how desperate she is to survive. Her attempt at escape... I guess it kind of worked, but I really had no hopes for her to escape, so it just prolonged the inevitable.

Some things that bother me: I'm pretty sure the attempt to make Kirumi seem like a cool person despite drowning Ryoma in a sink and feeding his corpse to piranha's made everyone forget Ryoma, which is lame because he essentially left himself vulnerable on purpose. This is a regular trend, and I think the game could have stood to have the characters still disgusted with her, if only because she almost killed them. Also, the fan service during her argument armament was stupid, as well as in her execution. So much media just has terrible timing with this kind of thing, which most series can do without.

Anyway, that's how I see Kirumi.

she looks cute but she also sucks

So fun fact, Kirumi was sort of the last straw to get me to check this series out. I saw her in a video of something and recognized the art style and decided "you know I've been meaning to see what the fuss over this series is about". And here I am.

I'm gonna scan some of the other comments before I say my piece.

[...]

She was real cool. Good design, good voice acting, cool ability. Overpowered maids/butlers are some of my favorite tropes. And despite being servile, she's got backbone to spare. And unlike many females of the series, they didn't go crazy sexualizing her.

(Plus, silly as it was, I got a kick out of her backstory as the secret prime minister.)

As a favorite of mine, Kirumi's execution was especially hard to watch, thanks to the fact that it did everything in its power to remove any and all strands of dignity left. Nothing at all like Gundham's execution.

She's not perfect, though. She didn't really add a whole lot when she was there, her backstory was still a stretch (even if I liked it), and there's something reprehensible about being the first person to break Kaede's request after her passing. And as someone else said, taking advantage of Ryoma's suicidal spiral is a terrible deed. She's cruelly utilitarian, right to the bitter end.

Though to be honest I kind of like that as a flaw. Getting trapped in utilitarianism is an interesting trait because it still has its advantages. Perhaps in an AU where things are more innocent, that could be a thing that she gets help with. Instead of cutting a random food I'd never even heard of before.

In the end, I'll concede that my appreciation of Kirumi probably leans more shallow, though I'm gonna say that a lot of the characters haven't been in my head for terribly long, so my reasons could deepen with time. Also if they gave her a little more characterization and didn't write her with only a plot twist in mind, because there are seeds of an interesting character.

If nothing else, I can appreciate her as an anti-villain. She's kind of despicable, but not without her reasons, and I've been known to enjoy villains.

She has the best execution Also i liked her desire to survive even aftet being discovered

She went from one favourite DRV3 girl, to great, and now I just find her good.

For me, I liker her personality and her contribution is decent, but it's her FTE's, their quite unremarkable and it doesn't help how we never learn how she became the ultimate maid. To me her FTE's could've been much more with more background knowledge instead of... Konju...

Personally I loved Kirumi. She's genuinely my favourite character in the whole series. I do admit that she could've really used a bit more personality and backstory though. The thing is, I genuinely wouldn't have minded if she died under the exact same circumstances but simply in chapter 4 or 5. I loved how savage her murder was and how brutal her execution was because it gave her so etching memorable to look back on but she died way too early. If she'd killed someone in the exact same way but in chapter 4 or 5, I would've loved the game so much more. I'm actually on the Danganronpa Amino and I made a few posts about a Danganronpa V3 rewrite where it has the same characters and setting but a different story. I made her much more key to the plot on that because I felt that she was lacking in the actual story. It's a shame that they kinda wasted an opportunity to have her be this awesome character with an epic class trial where she gets taken down but hey, she's still my favourite character so I don't mind all that much.

My opinion of Kirumi went from "best girl, best character, period" as of when I first saw her quite literally impeccable design, to... "eh."

I do still love her design, her talent, and everything about her class trial... Well, everything except for it being fairly obvious that it was her, but that's subjective anyhow. Her motive was neat, her plan was solid, the implications of her motive on her personality are endlessly intriguing, and her execution might be one of the best of the series, if only for how brutal it was. It's probably the most brutal and cringe-inducing execution in the series, and for that, I have to give it props. That's not even including the whole metaphor-for-the-spider-web-story thing.

... But everything leading up to it was very... eh. Like, they had some interesting places to go with her, but they just... didn't. Not until the class trial anyway. I still like her character - she was still a pretty fresh idea, and played her part in the story fine - but I mostly love all the other characters in V3, which basically puts her near the bottom of my list. Which is sad, considering how high my hopes for her were.

Best Maid waifu

So, if some seen my small opinion on Ryoma, I mentioned that I picked Kirumi Tojo first than wanted to do Ryoma next. Instead of me discussing my overall opinion on her. Here's that whole story on why and what happened when I picked The Ultimate Maid.

So with any Danganronpa game, I somehow always get the case of the first waifu I pick dies. So with V3 I wanted to try to, well, be one step forward with the game. So looking at the ladies, for once I was having a hard time to pick which one. At this time, Maki and Tenko were way off the table, Angie and Miu was on the board, and then seen Kirumi. Now here's a thing, I'm a sucker for the classic ‘bang covers one eye trope', and bam she was the one, my waifu of V3. So I spent my time with her both as Kaede and Shuichi, and so far I was enjoying a bit of her lore. Then I had some FTE left, and this was right after I got the second motive of the game, so out in a bit of a panic I used my remaining time to spend quality time with almost everyone's favorite Ultimate Astronaut, and I told myself I will spend my next FTE's on Kaito and Ryoma.

Next day Ryoma dead and he's nothing but damn bones. So gathering evidence for the second trial, I wrote down on a piece of paper four names on who could of killed Ryoma, and those were Kaito, Kirumi, Miu, and Maki. As it went on the numbers dropped and I had a theory that it might of been Kirumi, because of two flags in my opinion. First one was Kokichi playing games with her, then be scolded with everyone's favorite supreme leader running off. In that time she could of done almost anything, and the second she was against me on the scrum debate. For Kaito it was his story that he went straight to bed after what happened to him.

Next came the choice on who dun it, and I had to be safe, I picked Kaito first, and nope, it wasn't him, and then I picked Kirumi. A moment of silence game, and then...It was the right choice. Man never have I screamed ‘Son of a Bitch' louder than I could of in a Danganronpa game.

Well a class trial passes, and wow I was not expecting her to be, well, the Prime Minister of Japan. I felt like at that moment I believed I scored gold on an island, for a damn storm to claim it from me. Then the punishment time came, at first I was like ‘Ok it's climbing up a thorny...Rope so it can't be that bad.' Ten seconds later when the saws popped up, ‘Oh hell naw!!!'. Seeing her just get cut was painful to me, and even worse that scream as she just freaking tanked it like a boss to escape. I don't know if I should be impressed, or scared for what was gonna happen next.

When I seen that light, I believed she was gonna make it, and I was surprised. And then it revealed it was just a drawing, and Kirumi's look was enough to knew it was game over...

So final opinion on her...Yeah I did like her still, even though the time was more short than my other favorite girls in the previous games.

