Danganronpa Transcript

{Transcribers Note: Speech is denoted with their initials, such as MN for Makoto Naegi}
{Square Brackets ( [] ) denote a cutscene or a view change, such as [Fades to Black]}
{Circle Brackets ( () ) tend to represent game options (Such as saving, or chapter changes)}
{Cirly Brackets ( {} ) denote scenes, such as objects}
{Also, some words may *seem* to be misspelt, but that's cause America and, like, everywhere else has different spelling. So, yeah, the words have been changed to be in the British/Australian spelling, so sorry if that's a problem}
{End Transcribers Note}

{Quick Jumps: 01L is Chapter 01 Daily Life, 01D is Chapter 01 Deadly Life, 01T is Chapter 01 Trial}

Prologue

[Cue Epic Introduction with Monokuma and Jim Kirigiri]

[Isometric-like view of Hope's Peak]
??? (To themselves) - The massive high school towers over all the other buildings in this bustling urban area.
??? (To themselves) - It's like the school stands at the centre of the entire world.
??? (To themselves) - Hope's Peak Academy...
??? (To themselves) - It brings in top students from every field imaginable. A government-funded school of privilege...
??? (To themselves) - They say that if you come here and manage to graduate, you'll be set for life.
??? (To themselves) - With hundreds of years of tradition, it sends the cream of the crop into the work force every year.
??? (To themselves) - It was built to raise hope in the nation's future. Which makes Hope's Peak a pretty fitting name.
[Fades to black, then shows top of Hope's Peak entrance]
??? (To themselves) - There are two things you need to attend this school...
??? (To themselves) - One, you have to already be attending high school. Two, you have to be the very best at what you do
??? (To themselves) - No ordinary student could enroll here. The only way is if you're scouted by the school itself.
??? (To themselves) - And standing there at the gate of the ultimate school filled with the ultimate students...
[Pans down to the gates]
??? (To himself) - ... was me.
[Fades to black]
??? - Before we go any farther, I guess I should introduce myself. My name's Makoto Naegi.
MN (To himself) - As you can see, I'm nothing but a hopelessly average high school student.
MN (To himself) - Average on the outside, average on the inside.
MN (To himself) - I really don't have much going for me when it comes to grades, special abilities, even personality.
MN (To himself) - I mean yeah, I have hobbies and stuff I like to do, but it's not like I'm a psychic or mutant or whatever.
MN (To himself) - Like, if you asked me what my favourite song was, or my favourite movie or TV show...
MN (To himself) - They'd all just be whatever's most popular at that particular moment
MN (To himself) - Even among the average, I'm completely average. So I can't even say I'm your "everyday hero" type.
MN (To himself) - That's just who I am.
MN (To himself) - Anyway, I figure it's always good to introduce yourself right off the bat.
MN (To himself) - But you know, if I have any kind of "strong point", so to speak...
MN (To himself) - I'd say I'm a little more gung-ho than other people.
[Fades back to view at the gates of Hope's Peak]
MN (To himself) - I mean look at me, I'm completely ordinary, but still...
MN (To himself) - Here I am, standing in front of the anything but ordinary Hope's Peak Academy.
MN - I still can't believe I'm standing here. I wonder if someone like me can survive in a place like this...
MN (To himself) - It's got this overwhelming presence... like it's trying to swallow me whole.
MN (To himself) - But it's no wonder I would feel that way. What you have to understand is...
MN (To himself) - Well, let me just tell you about the "preparation" I did last night to get ready for today.
[Fade to black, then shows a computer screen. The screen shows a forum of some kind, with the heading:
(5:132) Hope's Peak Academy		15

and also 6 different comments:
Name Anonymous 8/20/2010 (Fri) 00.39.51 ID:yCd3V1dM0
C'mon, keep it comin'.
Name: Anonymous 8/20/2010 (Fri) 00:45:20 ID:vvCnZGzY0
Apparently my friend kinda knows them. I guess everything there's state of the art...
Name: Anonymous 8/20/2010 (Fri) 02:03:05 ID:uX5YxhjZO
This year's Ultimate Pop Sensation is gonna be there.
Name: Anonymous 8/20/2010 (Fri) 03:18:36 ID:vjximZeXO
Yeah, the Ultimate Baseball Pro's gonna be there, too
Name: Anonymous 8/20/2010 (Fri) 09:20:58 ID:jV4fnZX7O
So jealous... It's only for winners! How can anyone even get in?
Name: Anonymous 8/20/2010 (Fri) 09:20:18 ID:QKSePFeD0
"Anyone" can't.
]

MN (To himself) - Hope's Peak only invites those students who are the truly elite in their field.
MN (To himself) - Its such a popular topic, there are threads online dedicated to talking about the school's attendees.
MN (To himself) - So, to prepare, I looked up some of those threads.
MN (To himself) - And all I saw was talk about "ultimate" students, who were way beyond your average high schooler.
[Fade to black, then shows a photo of the "Ultimate Pop Sensation" with her group]
MN (To himself) - For example, one incoming student is the "Ultimate Pop Sensation".
MN (To himself) - I guess she's a high school girl who's also the lead singer for a pop group famous all over the country.
[Fade to black, then shows a photo of the "Ultimate Baseball Star" hitting a ball]
MN (To himself) - There's also the "Ultimate Baseball Star".
MN (To himself) - He was the cleanup hitter for the national high school champs. Pro teams already have their eyes on him.
[Fades to black, then shows some magazines featuring the "Ultimate Fashionista"]
MN (To himself) - Then there's the "Ultimate Fashionista".
MN (To himself) - She's been on the cover of tons of fashion magazines. She's what every high school girl wants to be
[Fades to black, then shows a photo of the "Ultimate Biker Gang Leader" with his gang]
MN (To himself) - Oh, and they mentioned the "Ultimate Biker Gang Leader" too
MN (To himself) - The scary thing is, he's the de facto leader of every biker gang in Japan. Gangs everywhere love the guy...
[Fades to black, then shows the earlier mentioned computer screen]
MN (To himself) - On top of that, there's the Ultimate Martial Artist, the Ultimate Fanfic Creator, the Ultimate Gambler...
MN (To himself) - The Ultimate Swimming Pro, the Ultimate Programmer, the Ultimate Clairvoyant, and then some...
MN (To himself) - Reading that made me realise how totally powerless I was. It was the country's finest, top to bottom.
MN (To himself) - I felt like a tame little house cat who'd wandered into a pride of lions.
MN (To himself) - But still, there was something I couldn't stop thinking about.
MN (To himself) - You see, there were a few students who I couldn't find any info on, no matter how much I looked.
MN (To himself) - With all those "ultimate" students, I'm the only one without any kind of worthwhile talent.
MN (To himself) - But then, what about those other new students who didn't seem to pop up anywhere?
MN - Could they be just average students like me, without any talent or anything?
MN (To himself) - That thought was kind of encouraging. I mean, I know I don't have much in the way of personality.
MN (To himself) - But beyond that, there's an even bigger issue...
MN (To himself) - How did such an unbelievably average student like me get picked to come to this "ultimate" high school?
MN (To himself) - I mean, I guess there *is* a reason...
MN (To himself) - You just have to take one glance at the acceptance letter they sent me to see why.
[Fades to black, then shows acceptance letter and orientation guide]
[Orientation Guide simply reads: 
		2014
Hope's Peak Orientation Guide
]
[Acceptance letter reads:
Mr Makoto Naegi
We recently held a lottery to select one ordinary student to attend our school.
As a result, you have been selected, and we invite you to join us as the Ultimate Lucky Student.
Included is an orientation guide for Hope's Peak Academy.
]
MN (To himself) - "We recently held a lottery to select one ordinary student to attend our school."
MN (To himself) - "As a result, you have been selected, and we invite you to join us as the Ultimate Lucky Student."
MN (To himself) - They spelled it out plain as day - I got invited by pure luck.
MN (To himself) - Honestly, I probably would have been better off just declining their offer.
MN (To himself) - But after hearing how graduating was a "guarantee for success" later in life, I just couldn't say no.
[Fades to black, then shows Hope's Peak panning down to Makoto]
MN (To himself) - But then, actually standing there in front of the school...
MN (To himself) - I started to feel lost, like I didn't belong there. I could feel myself losing my nerve.
MN (To himself) - But still... I can't just stand here in front of the gate forever...
MN (To himself) - Frozen in place, murmuring to myself, I looked down at the acceptance letter clutched in my hand.
MN (To himself) - It said there'd be a meeting for all incoming students in the main hall at 8 a.m.
MN (To himself) - The meeting still isn't for a little while, but...
MN - I should probably just head in.
MN - Yeah... Yeah, let's do this!
MN (To himself) - I gathered up all my determination and tried to act like I'd done this a million times before.
MN (To himself) - And I took my first step toward the main hall...
[Fade to black, then show the entrance hall]
MN - This is where we're supposed to meet, right? I guess I'm the first one here.
MN (To himself) - There's a really elegant clock over in the corner. It says it's 7:10 a.m.
MN (To himself) - The meeting doesn't start until 8 o'clock. So there's still a full 50 minutes left.
MN (To himself) - It makes sense nobody else would be here yet...
MN - I was so wound up, I got here way too early.
MN (To himself) - I have plenty of time before the meeting. Just standing around waiting isn't exactly...
MN (To himself) - I should take a look around the school. Maybe that'll help me calm down a little.
MN - I *am* a student here now, so there shouldn't be any problem with me having a look around, right?
MN (To himself) - It'll help me kill some time, if nothing else.
MN (To himself) - Trying to play it cool, I took my first step into Hope's Peak Academy.
MN (To himself) - It was also my first step toward starting a new life at a new school.
MN (To himself) - ...At least, that's what I was hoping for.
[Screen goes all twirly and spirally]
MN - What the-!?
MN (To himself) - But the instant I took that first step forward...
MN (To himself) - My view became warped, twisted.
MN (To himself) - It was like some kind of delusion, melting away and mixing together into something else.
MN (To himself) - Spinning, mixing, melting away, then spinning again...
MN (To himself) - And the next moment...
[Sure enough, screen goes black]
MN (To himself) - Everything went black
MN (To himself) - That was how it all began...
MN (To himself) - And how life as I knew it came to an end.
MN (To himself) - At that point, I should have realised...
MN (To himself) - The reason I was brought to Hope's Peak Academy wasn't because I had ultimate good luck.
MN (To himself) - It was so I could experience ultimate despair...

(Chapter Screen)
[Welcome to Despair]
[Prologue]

(Save)
[Prologue]
[School Life: Checkpoint]

MN - ...
MN - ...
MN - ...
MN - ...Nng?
[Fade from black to Makoto in classroom 1-A]
MN - Wh-What...?
MN - Where am I?
MN (To himself) - I woke up with my head resting on top of a hard wooden desk.
MN (To himself) - My body feels...heavy.
MN (To himself) - It's pretty normal for me to zonk off in the middle of some boring class or whatever, but...
MN (To himself) - What was I doing asleep here just now?
MN (To himself) - This isn't a classroom I've ever been in before.
MN - What the heck is going on...?
[Fade to the standard game view]
Narrator - Welcome to Hope's Peak Academy! Firstly, we'd like to explain the basic controls.
Narrator - You can use the left stick to adjust your aim.
Narrator - You can also tap the touch screen to place the reticle.
Narrator - If you aim at an object you can interact with, you can press the X button or tap the screen...
Narrator - And presto! You'll investigate that object.
Narrator - Use the directional buttons or the L and R buttons to adjust your viewpoint.
Narrator - Why don't you try looking around the classroom?

[Starting Classroom]
[Objects: 2x Iron Plates, Security Camera, Clock, Monitor, Door, Note]

{Iron Plate}
MN - What the heck...?
MN (To himself) - In any normal classroom, that's where a window should be.
MN (To himself) - But it looks like some kind of metal plate has been bolted over it.
MN (To himself) - And if I were to knock on it...
*KONK KONK*
MN - Yup. Definitely metal. Thick, too. Very solid.
MN (To himself) - Wait, that's not what matters here.
MN (To himself) - More importantly, why are there metal plates over the windows?

{Security Camera}
MN (To himself) - Is that...a surveillance camera?
MN (To himself) - It's a dangerous world we live in. I guess they have these to keep weirdos from just wandering in.

{Clock}
MN (To himself) - Jeez, I can't believe it's already 8 o'clock.
MN (To himself) - It was just after 7 when I first got here.
MN (To himself) - Has it really been almost an hour since then...?

{Monitor}
MN (To himself) - There's a TV...
MN (To himself) - The school *is* funded by the national government, so I guess it's not that weird to have TVs in here...
MN (To himself) - Something feels...off. I wonder what it is...

{Door}
{Prior to looking at everything}
MN (To himself) - I'd better look around the classroom a little more before I head out...
{After looking at everything}
[Leave the area?]

{Note}
MN (To himself) - That's the desk I fell asleep on. I can still see a line of drool I must have left there.
MN - I'll have to clean that up later...
MN (To himself) - Hey, what's that on the desk?
MN - An orientation guide...?
[The note reads: "Hey there new kid! The next semester is about to start. Starting today, this school will be your entire world."]
MN - It's some kind of cheap-looking pamphlet. And there's something handwritten on it...
MN (To himself) - "The next semester is about to start."
MN (To himself) - "Starting today, this school will be your entire world."
MN - What the hell? Is this someone's idea of a joke?

{After Investigating Everything}
MN - Okay, let's see. So what might have happened is...
MN (To himself) - I got myself so wound up, I passed out in the main hall. And then someone carried me here...?
MN (To himself) - If that's true, it must mean...
MN (To himself) - This is a classroom inside Hope's Peak.
MN - But then if *that's* true...
MN (To himself) - That just raises more questions. This is all really strange.
MN (To himself) - I mean, those metal plates covering the windows... It's like it's a prison or something.
MN (To himself) - None of this makes any sense...
MN - I should probably head back to the main hall.
MN - It's already past the meeting time. There might be other students there now.
Narrator - You can leave the classroom by pressing the Circle button.

{Upon Exit}
[Fades to black, exit to hallway]
MN - Jeez... This hallway is kind of weird, too.
MN (To himself) - This is getting stranger by the second.
MN (To himself) - I honestly have no idea what's going on...
MN - Well, for now I'll just head to the main hall...
Narrator - Use the left stick to move through the hallway.
Narrator - Hold down the O button while moving to run.
Narrator - Also, you can press the Triangle button to bring up a map.
Narrator - Press the Triangle button to close the map. How convenient!

# Different doors will give different responses
{Room 1-A}
MN (To himself) - Room 1-A. The door won't bulge...
{Room 1-B}
MN (To himself) - Room 1-B. The door's locked tight...
{That Red Room}
MN (To himself) - I wonder where this red door leads. I'm starting to feel sick standing here...
{A/V Room}
MN (To himself) - The A/V room. It's locked...
{School Store (Currently has 'Keep Out' tape plastered all over it)}
MN (To himself) - The school store. I guess it's not open...
{Nurse's Office (Currently has 'Keep out' tape plastered all over it)}
MN (To himself) - The nurse's office. Off-limits, it looks like.
{Boy's Bathroom}
MN (To himself) - The boys bathroom. Good thing I don't have to go...	
{Girl's Bathroom}
MN (To himself) - The girls bathroom. Not that it matters, but it's locked.
{Giant Iron Bars}
MN (To himself) - I wonder why there's a gate here...
{Gym}
MN (To himself) - The gym. The handle didn't move at all...
{Despair Hotel}
MN (To himself) - "Despair Hotel"...?
MN (To himself) - I guess it's a place for people to stay overnight. But anyway, I need to get to the main hall...!

{Exit Room, or Entry Hall}
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - By the time I got back to the main hall...
MN (To himself) - ...everyone else was already there.
[Fades to the Entry Hall]
??? - Whoa, hey! Another new kid? (Yasuhiro)
MN - Huh? Then you guys are all...?
??? - Yeah... We're all new here. Today's supposed to be our first day of class. (Chihiro)
??? - So counting him, that makes fifteen. Seems like a good cutoff point, but I wonder if this is everyone... (Hifumi)
MN (To himself) - Standing before me were the "Ultimate Students" that had been hand-picked by the school.
MN (To himself) - I looked around at everyone who'd gathered there, taking in their faces one at a time.
MN (To himself) - Maybe I was just imagining it, but I swear I could feel a kind of aura coming from each of them...
MN - Um... How's it going? My name's Makoto Naegi.
MN - Sorry I'm late. A bunch of stuff happened, and then all of a sudden I was just... asleep.
??? - Whoa, you too? (Yasuhiro)
??? - Things just keep getting curiouser and curiouser... (Celeste)
??? - So strange... I declare beyond a shadow of a doubt that this is a strange situation indeed! (Hifumi)
MN - Um... What are you talking about? I honestly have no idea what's going on right now.
??? - Just a moment! There's something else we must address! (Kiyotaka)
??? - Makoto! Your tardiness is unacceptable! Surely you were aware the meeting was to start at 8 a.m. sharp! (Kiyotaka)
??? - To be late on your first day is unspeakable! I must report you, and you must accept your true punishment! (Kiyotaka0
??? - What's your problem? It's not like he *wanted* to be late. He didn't have any control over it. (Junko Enoshima)
??? - Everyone just calm down! Listen, why don't we all go around and introduce ourselves? (Aoi)
??? - The hell? Now's no time for friggin' introductions! (Mondo)
??? - Maybe, but it may be good to at least find out who we all are before digging into the bigger problems here. (Celeste)
??? - I mean, how are we even supposed to talk to each other if we do not know each other's names? (Celeste)
??? - That's a good point... (Chihiro)
??? - Okay, so let's get introductions out of the way, then we can move on to whatever else. Sound good? (Sayaka)
MN (To himself) - I'm still totally lost, but I think it's best to just focus on getting to know each other for now.
MN (To himself) - So I guess this is as good a chance as I'm gonna get.
MN (To himself) - I already looked everyone up on that Hope's Peak Academy thread online, but...
MN (To himself) - I still don't really know what kind of people they actually are. Time to find out...
MN (To himself) - I'll start by talking to those five over there.
[Everyone but Kiyotaka, Toko, Sayaka, Leon and Hifumi disappears]
Narrator - Aim at a student and press the X button to talk to them.
Narrator - Each conversation is important to the overall story, so keep track of how they go.
[Main Hall]
[Objects: Monitor, 2x Surveillance Camera with Gun, Door, Mailbox]
[People: Kiyotaka, Toko, Sayaka, Leon, Hifumi]

{Surveillance Camera with Gun}
MN (To himself) - That surveillance camera has what looks like a gun attached to it.
MN (To himself) - But there's no way that's a real gun... right?

{Door}
MN (To himself) - Holy cow, what's with this huge metal hatch?
MN (To himself) - It looks like the kind of thing you'd see in a secret military base or something...
MN (To himself) - This *is* the same main hall I was in before, right? This door definitely wasn't here then, though...

{Kiyotaka}
KI - I'm Kiyotaka Ishimaru. I believe in bold simplicity! Let's work together on our educational crusade!
[Blue screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Moral Compass
Kiyotaka Ishimaru]
MN (To himself) - So that's Kiyotaka. According to what I saw about him on that thread...
MN (To himself) - He went to a famous private school and won top honours every year. He's basically a flawless honour student...
MN (To himself) - He's also known for the work he's done with his community's Public Morals Committee.
MN (To himself) - They say he respects rules above all else, earning him the title of Ultimate Moral Compass.
KI - Anyway, you can call me Taka. You said your name was Makoto Naegi, right?
KI - That's a good name, a strong name! You should thank your parents for giving you such an excellent name.
KI - And to keep that name from losing its value, you must devote yourself every single day!
KI - Life is worth putting every ounce of effort into it! Right? Right!
MN (To himself) - This guy is... kind of annoying.

{Toko}
TF - N-Not that you'll remember my n-name anyway, but...
TF - I'm T-Toko... Toko Yukawa.
[Purple screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Writing Prodigy
Toko Fukawa]
MN (To himself) -Yeah, she wrote a novel when she was ten that got everyone talking and launched her literary career.
MN (To himself) - Then two years ago she released "So Lingers the Ocean", a love story said to be her masterpiece.
MN (To himself) - The book was such a hit with women that fishermen quickly shot to the top of every "Hottest Men" poll.
MN (To himself) - Despite her age, she's won countless literary prizes and all her books are instant best-sellers.
MN (To himself) - Which is why she's come to be known as the Ultimate Writing Prodigy.
MN (To himself) - What else would you call such a young and talented author?
MN (To himself) - But I figured she'd be a lovey-dovey type, what with her masterpiece being a romance and all...
TF - ...
TF - Wh-What? I-It's not polite to stare, you know.
TF - Stop staring at me like I'm some filthy creature!
MN - F-Filthy creature? No, I just thought-
TF - I-I know what you "just" thought...!
TF - You just thought you've n-never seen such an ugly woman. You just th-thought it was sooo funny...!
MN - N-No, that's not what I was thinking at all...
TF - Don't bother trying to l-lie to me!
TF - I know it;s true. Otherwise, you... I know you can't stand looking at me!
TF - Wh-Whatever, I don't really care. I'm used to it...
MN (To himself) - Wow, talk about an inferiority complex. I was way off about what a successful author would be like...

{Sayaka}
SM - Hi, I'm Sayaka Maizono. I look forward to getting to know you!
[Pink screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Pop Sensation
Sayaka Maizono]
MN  (To himself) - The way she moves is positively mesmerising. And that pleasant scent I can't quite place...
MN (To himself) - Sayaka Maizono...
MN (To himself) - When I saw her name in that thread online, frankly I was pretty surprised.
[Screen fades to black, showing Sayaka with her pop group]
MN (To himself) - She's in a pop group famous all across the country. In fact, she's their lead singer...
MN (To himself) - As the Ultimate Pop Sensation, she's in high demand to appear on TV and in magazines everywhere.
MN (To himself) - But actually, that's not the only reason I was so surprised to find out she'd be going to this school.
MN (To himself) - I'm sure she doesn't remember, but...
MN (To himself) - Well, never mind. No matter how you slice it, she's really beautiful. Almost like a doll or something...
SM - I'm not a doll, you know. I'm alive!
MN - Huh? Did you hear me!?
SM - I'm psychic.
MN - ...Huh?
SM - Kidding! I just have really good intuition.
MN (To himself) - She's a sharp one...
SM - Huh? Hey, by any chance...?
MN - Now what?
SM - ...Yeah, it must be. I'm sure of it.
SM - Hey, Makoto. Did-
KI - Jeez, you guys! How long do you plan to waste our valuable time with this ridiculous back-and-forth?!
SM - S-Sorry. Just got carried away, I guess...
KI - Self-introductions are for introducing yourself, not bumbling through a bunch of idle chit-chat!
SM - Y-You're right.
SM - Sorry, Makoto...
SM - We can talk about this later.
MN (To himself) - It sounded like Sayaka really had something she wanted to say.
MN (To himself) - But it's not like we'll never see each other again. Like she said, we can talk later.

{Leon}
LK - Yo! The name's Leon Kuwata. What's up?
[Orange - Yellow screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Baseball Star
Leon Kuwata]
MN (To himself) - I recognise that name...
[Fade to black, shows a picture of Leon hitting a ball. Same picture as before]
MN (To himself) - He plays for the national high school champs as their cleanup hitter. The Ultimate Baseball Star...
MN (To himself) - And that superb athletic specimen is...
MN - You? Seriously!?
LK - Huh? What's wrong?
MN - N-Nothing, I'm just... surprised. I figured with you being the Ultimate Baseball Star and all...
LK - What, were you expecting some kid with a shaved head?
MN - Shaved head...?
MN - No, I was just expecting more of a, you know, sporty-looking traditional baseball player type.
MN - I mean, when I found that article and picture of you online, that's how you looked then.
LK - What!? Aw man, you found that picture of me playing baseball? Seriously!? I hate that picture!
LK - This is not cool. This is SO not cool... Seriously, I'm like, mega embarrassed right now.
LK - I didn't have a choice, okay? Shaving your head like that is part of national championship regulations!
LK - But now I refuse to cut my hair. And I'm not gonna dye it back to normal, either!
LK - Actually, can I be totally honest with you?
LK - I don't like baseball. Like, at all. I've never gone to a single practice.
MN (To himself) - He's never practiced, and he was still his team's star player? He's some kind of prodigy...
LK - And as soon as I got accepted here, I quit baseball for good! I have my own dream for the future!
MN - A dream... for the future?
LK - My only path in life is getting into music! You can feel that star-quality aura I have, right?
LK - I'm gonna be a single, so all I need is a songwriter and someone on guitar, and we're set!
LK - This new version of me that's chasing after my dream is, like... super cool to the max!
MN (To himself) - I can't believe what I'm hearing. I never imagined I'd hear something like that from a baseball all-star...

{Hifumi}
HY - I... am Hifumi Yamada. But if you want to call me by my nickname, "The Alpha and the Omega"! I don't mind.
[Rose Red screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Fanfic Creator
Hifumi Yamada]
HY - By the way, how much do you know about the world of 2D art?
MN - World of... 2D?
HY - Well, in that world, I am well known and supremely well regarded as the Ultimate Fanfic Creator.
HY - I once sold 10,000 copies of one of my fan comics at a school festival. The event has passed into legend...
HY - Some of them didn't get it, of course, saying I'd "tainted" the event. How stupid can you be!?
MN (To himself) - That's too bad about them. But selling 10,000 copies like that is definitely pretty remarkable.
HY - The words of such idiots mean nothing to me. I am like Van Gogh - utterly unappreciated in my time.
HY - I am a soldier, serving night and day to destroy all mindless preconceptions about fan fiction.
HY - I'm sure if you were to observe my work, Mr. Naegi, you would comprehend its greatness immediately.
HY - For my work is filled with deepest meaning...
MN - What... what kind of meaning?
HY - It's about embracing our basest urges...
MN (To himself) - I don't think I want to comprehend it...

[After talking to all 5 people]
MN (To himself) - Okay, now to talk to those 5 people over there.
[The 5 people in the room change, now showing Aoi, Chihiro, Kyoko, Junko and Mondo]
[People: Aoi, Chihiro, Kyoko, Junko, Mondo]

{Aoi}
AA: - Heya! I'm Aoi Asahina! But my friends just call me Hina. 'Sup?
[Yellow screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Swimming Pro
Aoi Asahina]
MN (To himself) - Aoi Asahina... She's been breaking records in every competition she's been in since elementary school.
MN (To himself) - She's even been chosen as an upcoming Olympic cadet. She is, without a doubt, the Ultimate Swimming Pro.
MN (To himself) - The combination of her ability, appearance, and, um... proportions has been widely discussed online...
AA - So uh... what was your name again? Sorry, totally forgot!
MN - Makoto Naegi.
AA - Oh yeah, I knew it was something like that!
MN - No, not "something" like that. It *is* that...
AA - Sure, sure, got it! Here, I'll hammer it into my brain right now!
AA - Makoto... Naegi... Makoto... Naegi...
MN (To himself) - She just kept repeating my name and moving her finger across her palm like she was writing something...
MN - What are you doing?
AA - You don't know? If you wanna remember someone's name, you gotta write it on your hand three times!
MN - I've never heard of that before in my life...
AA - Hey, by the way... how do you spell your last name?
MN - You spell it exactly like it sounds.
AA - Umm...
AA - ...
AA - Well, I have no idea. Hahaha! I'll just figure it out later and write it down.
AA - Anyway, glad to meet ya!
MN - S-Sure, same here...
MN (To himself) - Well, one thing I learned is that she's totally easygoing and bursting with energy.

{Chihiro}
CF - Hello, nice to meet you. I'm Chihiro Fujisaki...
[Lime Green screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Programmer
Chihiro Fujisaki]
CF -Sorry, I get kinda embarrassed whenever I introduce myself like this...
CF - Anyway, I hope we can get along...
MN - Same here. Nice to meet you.
CF - ...Huh?
CF - Maybe it's just my imagination, but... have we met before?
MN - Um, I don't think so. We just met for the first time. Which is why I said "nice to meet you".
CF - Oh, yeah. Good point. Sorry...
MN - Y-You don't have to apologise for that.
CF - Oh, yeah...
MN (To himself) - Chihiro Fujisaki is known for all the cutting-edge programs she's created. She's the Ultimate Programmer.
MN (To himself) - She's also got that timid little bunny type thing going, which has endeared her to her legion of fans.
CF - Hey, so listen...
CF - I-I'm really sorry.
MN - Huh? What are you apologising for now?
CF - Well, just cuz... you seem upset. You must be mad at me, right?
MN - No, not at all! I was just lost in thought about something.
CF - Huh? Lost in thought...?
MN - Yeah! It had nothing to do with me being upset or anything.
CF - Oh, that's good. I was afraid maybe you didn't like me.
CF - Hehe... I'm glad!
MN - ...
MN (To himself) - I'm starting to understand why her fans are so into her...

{Kyoko}
KK - ...
MN - ...
KK - ...
MN - Um... Can I ask you your name?
KK - ...
KK - My name is... Kyoto Kirigiri.
[Purple screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate ???
Kyoko Kirigiri]
KK - ...
MN (To himself) - She's pretty tight-lipped, huh?
MN (To himself) - Oh, but you know...
MN (To himself) - Her name didn't show up anywhere in that Hope's Peak Academy thread.
[Fade to computer screen shown before; Thread titled "Hope's Peak Academy"]
MN (To himself) - And I did see that there were students like me...
MN (To himself) - Ones who didn't have any real identity or presence.
MN (To himself) - Could this girl be one of them...?
[Fades back to Entrance Hall]
MN - Um, so... what are you doing at this school?
KK - What's that supposed to mean?
MN - No, I just meant... Getting invited here means you're some kind of "ultimate" something, right?
MN - So what ultimate something are you?
KK - ...
KK - Why should I tell you?
MN - Huh...?
MN - Well... I guess you don't have to tell me.
KK - No, I *don't* have to tell you. So I'm not going to.
MN (To himself) - Nothing about her turned up online, so I was thinking maybe she got picked by chance like me, but...
KK - ...
MN (To himself) - Her face is like an iron mask. If she doesn't want to tell me anything, no point in asking.

{Junko}
JE - Hiii! I'm Junko Enoshima. Charmed, I'm sure!
[Pink screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Fashionista
Junko Enoshima]
MN (To himself) - Anybody would recognise this one...
[Fade back to Junko's magazines]
MN (To himself) - She's got more charm and presence than any high school girl in the country. She's the Ultimate Fashionista.
MN (To himself) - I've seen her on tons of magazine covers, but...
[Fades back to Entrance Hall]
MN - I feel like that doesn't quite match up to reality.
JE - Huh...?
JE - Oh, are you talking about my cover photos and junk?
JE - Ahaha, well of course! Those are totally photoshopped.
MN - Photoshopped...?
[Fades back to Junko's magazines]
JE - Yeah, you know - edited to hell and back. With like, computers and junk?
MN - Oh, so they aren't real...
[Fades back to Entrance Hall]
JE - Com on, don't act so surprised! You're gonna make me all depressed.
JE - It's totally normal these days to photoshop the crap out of cover photos.
JE - If you're surprised by that, you'd be totally blown away by a certain dangerous little diva of ours...
JE - They make the eyes and junk super big, and tweak the skin so it looks all ceramic and porcelain.
MN - Oh...
MN (To himself) - So many dreams are getting crushed today...

{Mondo}
MO - Name's Mondo Owada. Nice to fuckin' meetcha.
[Red screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Biker Gang Leader
Mondo Owada]
MN (To himself) - Mondo Owada, huh? Which means...
[Fades to Mondo's Gang, Crazy Diamond. This is the same gang photo present shown at the start]
MN (To himself) - He's the current leader of the largest biker gang in Japan.
MN (To himself) - He's earned respect, even awe, from every gang in the country. He's the Ultimate Biker Gang Leader
MN - ...
MN - Umm...
MN - Nice to meet you, too...
MO - Hell yeah.
MN (To himself) - I'd better be careful around him. One wrong word and I could wake up at the bottom of the sea...

[After talking to all 5 people]
MN (To himself) - Those four over there are the only ones left.]
[Aoi, Chihiri, Kyoko, Junko and Mondo disappear and are replaced with Sakura, Byakuya, Yasuhiro and Celeste]
[People: Sakura, Byakuya, Yasuhiro and Celeste]

{Sakura}
SO - I am Sakura Ogami.
{Brown screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Martial Artist
Sakura Ogami]
MN (To himself) - Oh jeez, I almost asked her if she was a guy...
MN (To himself) - The day I say something like that out loud is the day I get turned into a human meatball...
MN (To himself) - But now I remember. She competed in a martial arts tournament in America and won, despite being a girl.
MN (To himself) - She's the Ultimate Martial Artist. She's fought in over 400 matches, and never lost a single one.
[Fades back to computer screen shown in early Prologue; Thread: Hope's Peak Academy]
MN (To himself) - That thread also said a bit more about her...
MN (To himself) - Some call her Ogre; some even think she's the closest known relative to the primates - the famed missing link.
MN (To himself) - "Any incoming Hope's Peak students who are reading this, let me warn you right now..."
MN (To himself) - "If you value your life, avoid her at all costs."
[Fades back to the Entrance Hall]
MN (To himself) - Standing in front of her now, I don't think they were exaggerating about that...
SO - Hey, you.
MN - Huh? Y-Yes!?
MN (To himself) - I snapped back to attention without even realising it.
MN (To himself) - Then she started to poke and prod at my body...
MN - Um... what are you...?
SO - Muscular quality and quantity is right around that of an extremely ordinary high school student...
SO - Hmph. What a shame. You're not at all fit to act as my training partner.
MN (To himself) - I'm not sure that's such a shame for me...

{Byakuya}
BT - Name's Byakuya Togami.
[Blue screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Affluent Progeny
Byakuya Togami]
MN - Hi, uh... nice to meet you.
BT - ...
MN (To himself) - That's the most half-assed introduction I've ever heard...
MN (To himself) - But there isn't really anything I can do about it.
MN (To himself) - Even among the ultimate students, this one is special.
MN (To himself) - Byakuya Togami... He's the heir apparent of his family's massive financial conglomerate.
MN (To himself) - He's already started managing business operations, and his own personal assets are, well, vast.
MN (To himself) - His title of Ultimate Affluent Progeny is completely accurate. He's the definition of "exceptional".
MN (To himself) - That's everything I learned about him from that Hope's Peak Academy thread online.
BT - We're done with introductions, right? How much longer are you going to stand there?
BT - Go away. I'm sick of looking at you.
MN (To himself) - His aura says to me, "You and I will never stand on the same level". Like a king in training...

{Yasuhiro}
YH - I'm Yasuhiro Hagakure - Hiro for short! Take it easy, yeah? I know I will!
[Green screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Clairvoyant
Yasuhiro Hagakure]
MN (To himself) - Yasuhiro Hagakure, known as "Supernova" in the psychic community. The trend-setting Ultimate Clairvoyant...
MN (To himself) - Honestly, I don't really get all that fortune-telling stuff. It's pretty much beyond me.
MN (To himself) - Still, I con't help wondering if there's any truth to it.
YH - Ahh... Okay, I give up.
MN - Huh? What happened?
YH - I saw it. I looked right at it... Seriously, I totally saw it!
MN - ...Saw what?
YH - A guardian angel with a crazy perm chasing after Bigfoot running off with a skyfish in its mouth.
YH - And that guardian angel... is YOUR guardian angel!
YH - Nah, I'm just kiddin'.
YH - But hey, we should grab some brewskis sometime and get real deep into Lemuria and its civilisation.
MN - What? We're not allowed to drink! We're in high school!
YH - Oh, I'm actually 21. I've been held back a few times, see, and... well, it's a long story.
MN (To himself) - A few times...? Yeah, I bet that *is* a long story.

{Celeste}
{Transriber Note: I know that, ingame, she's just referred to as 'Celeste', however her introduction name is 'Celestia Ludenberg'. Also, keeps things consistent}
CL - I do not think we have been introduced. I am Celestia Ludenberg.
[Salmon Red screen with circle; Student Introduction:
Ultimate Gambler
Celestia Ludenberg]
MN - Celestia... Luden... huh?
CL - Ludenberg. It is my name. But if you don't mind, I would prefer for you to call me Celeste.
MN - Um... you *are* Japanese, right?
CL - Of course. Why do you ask?
MN - If you don't mind... could you tell me your real name?
CL - Heh-heh. I don't know what you are talking about. Celestia Ludenberg *is* my real name.
CL - But as I mentioned, I would much rather you call me Celeste.
MN (To himself) - She's polite, but pretty forceful at the same time. I don't think she wants to say any more about it...
MN (To himself) - I guess the rumours in that thread were right about her...
[Fades back to computer from early prologue; Thread: Hope's Peak Academy]
MN (To himself) - The self-styled "Celestia Ludenberg", she's the Ultimate Gambler who's never lost a bet.
MN (To himself) - Other than her obvious love of gothic lolita clothes, everything about her is wrapped  in a veil of lies.
MN (To himself) - They say she entered and won and won an underground gambling tournament, earning the title "Queen of Liars".
MN (To himself) - She totally cleaned out the other players, taking their life savings and laughing as she did it.
[Fades back to the Entrance Hall]
CL - I look forward to getting to know you better.
CL - Heh-heh-heh...
MN (To himself) - That smile is beyond deceptive. I'd better watch myself around her...

[After talking to the remaining 4 people]
MN (To himself) - And with that, all the introductions are done.
MN (To himself) - Hmm... Even though they're all "ultimate", they each have their own individual sort of... um... something.
BT - Okay, time to get down to business.
BT - This is no time to stand around making friends like a bunch of dull-eyed baboons.
MN - Oh, that's true.
MN - I think someone said something about a bigger problem or something? What was that about?
SM - Well, you see...
SM - Makoto, you said a bunch of stuff happened and then you were "just asleep", right?
SM - Well... the same is true for all of us.
MN - What? Seriously!?
LK - Just after each of us got to the main hall, we lost consciousness.
LK - And when we came to, we were somewhere here in the school! That's what happened to you, right?
MN - B-But that's just... weird! That every one of us would get knocked out like that...
MO - Exactly! That's why we're all freakin' out!
KI - And that's not the only thing. You saw where all the windows in the classes and hallways were, right?
[Flash of white, showing the iron bolted windows in a classroom]
KI - But instead of normal glass windows, it was a bunch of big metal plates! What's that about!?
[Flash of white, return to the Entrance Hall]
JE - Plus, all my stuff's missing! Even my cellphone...
CF - Yeah, you're right. I haven't seen my PDA anywhere, either... {PDA is Personal Digital/Data Assistant}
KI - And then there's the main hall here.
KI - The front exit is completely blocked by some giant metal hatch.
KI - But there wasn't anything like that when I first got here...!
KI - What the heck!? What's it doing here!?
JE - Maybe we got caught up in some kinda, like, you know... crime or something?
LK - What, like... a kidnapping?
LK - You think maybe someone grabbed us and hauled us off and we're not actually at school?
YH - Come on, don't think like that. Cheer up!
YH - I bet this is all just part of the school's orientation procedure.
YH - Yeah, I'm sure that's it! So I'm just gonna take it easy for a little bit.
CF - Oh... So you think they wanted to do something to surprise us?
LK - Huh. Well if that's all it is, it's nap time for me.
LK - I was up way too late last night, so I could use a little shuteye.
MN (To himself) - I could feel everyone's tension evaporating...
MN (To himself) - But then... it began.
*Ding dong, bing bong*
[Fades to monitor. Green static in the background, Completely black bear in the foreground]
??? - Ahem! Ahem! Testing, testing! Mike check, one two! This is a test of the school broadcast system!
??? - Am I on? Can everyone hear me? Okay, well then...!
MN (To himself) - The voice seemed totally out of place. It was so playful, so completely unconcerned...
MN (To himself) - I couldn't help but feel a deep, unnerving dread at the sound of it.
MN (To himself) - It was like hearing someone laugh at the scene of an accident.
??? - Ahh, to all incoming students! I would like to begin the entrance ceremony at... right now!
??? - Please make your way to the gymnasium at your earliest convenience.
??? - ... That's all. I'll be waiting!
[Fades to black, then to the entrance hall]
JE - ...
JE - What. The. Hell was that just now?
BT - Well then, if you'll excuse me... [Leaves]
JE - H-Hey! What, you're gonna take off just like that!?
YH - Ohh yeah, now I get it! This whole thing was just to get us all pumped for the entrance ceremony!	
YH - Man, thank god it was all a joke. I'd be totally freaked if this was real!
YH - Alright, guess I'll head out, too. Wonder what they got planned for us next... [Leaves]
LK - Damn, I was totally looking forward to that nap, too. Why'd they have to go and kill the mood? [Leaves]
CF - W-Wait for me! I wanna go with you! [Leaves]
CL - That is that, then. I will see you all there. [Leaves]
TF - N-Not that anyone cares, but I-I'm gonna go, too... [Leaves]
MN (To himself) - Everyone took off for the gym, but I was frozen where I stood.
MN (To himself) - That uneasy feeling I'd had before... I couldn't get it out of my mind.
MN (To himself) - And it looked like I wasn't the only one...
SM - This... this doesn't seem right.
JE - Yeah, that announcement was totally weird.
KK - Maybe, but just staying put doesn't mean we'll be safe.
KK - Besides, aren't you guys just a little bit curious to find out what's going on around here?
SO - If we do not move forward, we learn nothing. The only choice is to push ahead.
MN (To himself) - I... I guess she's right.
MN (To himself) - But still... I'm kinda - no, really nervous.
MN (To himself) - We don't have a choice. We have to go.
MN - They said to go to the gym, right?

(Save)
[Prologue]
[School Life: Checkpoint]

[Entrance Hall]
[People: Junko Enoshima, Mondo Owada, Kiyotaka Ishimaru, Sayaka Maizono, Kyoko Kirigiri, Sakura Ogami, Hifumi Yamada]

{Junko}
JE - What was with that announcement? It was like, totally creepy...

{Mondo}
MO - Shit! What the hell kind of game are they playing!?

{Kiyotaka}
KI - Wh-What the hell? Is this some kind of bad joke!?

{Sayaka}
SM - Something weird *is* going on here, right? It's not just me?

{Kyoko}
KK - I know how you feel, but... all we can do now is check it out, right?

{Sakura}
SO - True. If we do not move forward, we learn nothing. The only choice is to push ahead.

{Hifumi}
HY - Are you okay? Is everyone okay?

{Upon Exit}
[Fade to black, exit to hallway]

{Transcribers Note: For Free Roam, I'm not going to transcribe rooms unless they're required by the story, as there's a lot of repetition between rooms}
{Gym}
[Fades to black]
MO - God, I had no idea this Hope's Peak Academy place was gonna be such a pain in my balls.
MO - It really ain't that much different from the time I spent in juvie. Hell, this place is even worse!
SM - And why isn't there anyone here? Walking through the halls, I didn't see a single person...
JE - Isn't that like, seriously not good?
KI - Th-They're just trying to spook us! They'll take those metal plates down later, I'm sure of it...
SO - All we can do now is hope for the best and prepare for the worst. Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
MO - Well hell, it ain't like I'm scared or nothin'. Let's just get this over with!
MO - Hey! Where's whoever called us here!? [Leaves]
KI - Mondo, stop! No running! [Leaves]
SO - I too shall go. [Leaves]
HY - H-Hey, wait! Don't leave me here all alone! [Leaves]
Narrator - Okay, time for some more Tutorial action!
Narrator - You can press the Triangle button to observe the room you're in.
Narrator - Observing will display what people and objects you can interact with. Sorry for the late notice!

[Gym Entrance Room]
[Objects: Door, Monitor, Security Camera, Display Case]
[People: Kyoko Kirigiri, Sayaka Maizono, Junko Enoshima}

{Transcribers Note: Similar to how I'm not gonna document every single room every single time, I'm not going to go back over repetitive things, such as the iron bars, cameras and monitors}

{Display Case}
MN (To himself) - A display case... There are all kinds of trophies and plaques inside.
MN (To himself) - Of course, all the students who go here are ultimate, right?
MN (To himself) - So this is probably just a tiny fraction of all their awards.

{Kyoko}
KK - ...
MN (To himself) - Total silence...
MN (To himself) - For whatever reason, she's the only one managing to stay calm.
MN (To himself) - Or maybe I'm just imagining that...

{Sayaka}
SM - Where are all the other students? Why are we the only ones here?

{Junko}
JE - I'm totally getting a bad vibe right now.

{Door}
[Fade to black]
MN (To himself) - Still filled with uneasy dread, I did what the announcement said and went to the gym.
MN (To himself) - And I saw what was waiting for us there...
[Enter Gym]
MN - Oh. It really does look like an entrance ceremony...
YH - See? Told ya! It's totally normal entrance ceremony stuff.
MN (To himself) - Hiro was right.
MN (To himself) - But in a way, that just emphasised how completely *not* normal all of us were.
??? Hey there, howdy, hello! Is everyone here? Good! Then let's get things rolling!
[Shows cutscene with everyone in the gym, then zooms up to the stage, with a monochrome teddy bear appearing]
CF - Huh? A... teddy bear?
??? - I'm not a teddy bear!
{Transcribers Note: Monokuma's getting notated as MK (MonoKuma) to keep things consistent and easy to type}
MK - I... am... Monokuma!
MK - And I am this school's headmaster!
MN (To himself) - It was the strangest thing I'd ever seen.
MN (To himself) - Right before my eyes, it was...
MN (To himself) - What I was seeing was... It was... utterly incomprehensible.
[Fades to black, then back to the gym]
MK - Nice to meet you all!
MN (To himself) - Such a bright voice and carefree attitude was completely out of place.
MN (To himself) - And all that anxiety I'd been carrying with me suddenly transformed into outright fear.
HY - Wh-? Waaaaaah! That teddy bear can talk!
KI - Calm down! I'm sure there's just a speaker inside it.
MK - I told you already, I'm not a teddy bear...
MK - I'm Monokuma! And I'm your headmaster!
HY - Waaaaah! It moved!
MO - Seriously man, calm down! It's prolly just a remote control toy or somethin'.
MK - How dare you compare me to a child's plaything! You've cut me deep. Deeper than the Mariana Trench...
MK - My remote control system is so complex, even the folks at NASA can't recreate or even comprehend it!
MK - Ah, but don't make me say stuff that might destroy NASA's dreams. I just couldn't BEAR that!
CL - "Bear" that? Really? You are... unfortunate.
MK - Now then, moving on! We really must hurry and get started...
JE - Giving up already? No other stupid bear puns?
MK - Quiet down now, quiet down. Ah, okay, so...!
SO - He has abandoned the gag...
MK - Everyone, stand at attention and bow! And... good morning!
KI - Good morning!!!
TF - Y-You don't have to s-say it back...
MK - Now then, let us commence with a most noteworthy and memorable entrance ceremony!
MK - First, let's talk a bit about what your school life here will be like.
MK - Now, ah, make no mistake - you few students, so full of potential, represent the hope of the world.
MK - And to protect such splendid hope...
MK - ...you will all live a communal life together solely within the confines of this school.
MK - Everyone will live in harmony together, and adhere to the rules and regulations of the school.
MN (To himself) - Huh...?
MK - Ah, now then... regarding the end date for this communal life...
MK - There isn't one!
MK - In other words, you'll all be here until the day you die! Such is the school life you've been assigned.
TF - Wh-What did he just say? Until the day we d-die...?
MK - Oh, but fear not! We have quite an abundant budget, so you won't lack for all the common conveniences.
SM - That's the least of our worries right now!
JE - Yeah, what the hell? You're saying I have to live here forever?
JE - You're screwing with us, right?
MK - I am not screwing with you! I am no liar, of that you can be 100% sure.
MK - Ah, and just for your information... you're completely cut off from the outside world.
MK - So you don't have to worry about that dirty dirty land beyond these walls ever again!
MN - Cut off...?
MN - So all those metal plates all over the school...
MN - They're there to keep us trapped in here?
MK - That's exactly what they're there for.
MK - No matter how much you may yell and scream for help... help will not come.
MK - So with all of that in mind, feel free to live out your life here with reckless abandon!
LK - Come on, what the hell is this?
LK - I don't care if the school or whoever else is behind it all, this is just a really bad joke.
MO - Yeah! Cut this shit out! It isn't funny anymore!
MK - You keep saying this is a lie, or a joke. A bunch of skeptics, all of you.
MK - But I guess you can't help it, huh? You all grew up in an age where you're taught to doubt your neighbour...
MK - Well, you'll have plenty of time to find out whether or not what I say is true.
MK - And when that time comes, you'll see with your own eyeballs that I speak the undeniable truth.
CL - Having to live here forever would be... quite the problem.
MK - Come, now. What's the matter with all of you?
MK - You decided of your own free will to attend Hope's Peak Academy, didn't you?
MK - And now, before the entrance ceremony is even finished, you've already decided you want to leave?
MK - Oh, but you know...
MK - I guess I did forget to mention one thing. There *is* one way for you to leave the school...
TF - R-Really...?
MK - As headmaster, I've crafted a special clause for those of you who would like to leave!
MK - I call it... the Graduation Clause!
MK - Now, let me tell you about this fun little rule.
MK - As I mentioned, in order to maintain an environment of harmony here, we rely on a communal lifestyle.
MK - And if someone were to disrupt that harmony, they and they alone would be allowed to leave the school.
MK - That, my students, is the Graduation Clause!
BT - What do you mean by "disrupt the harmony"?
MK - Puhuhu... Well, you know...
MK - If one person were to murder another.
MN - M-Murder!?
MK - Stabbing, strangling, bludgeoning, crushing, hacking, drowning, igniting, how you do it doesn't matter.
MK - You must kill someone if you want to leave. It's as simple as that.
MK - The rest is up to you. Give it your all to achieve the best outcome in the worst way possible.
MN (To himself) - A chill shot down my spine...
MN (To himself) - "You must kill someone if you want to leave".
MN (To himself) - As soon as I heard those words, my blood went cold.
MK - Puhuhu. I bet *that* got your brain juices flowing! Beats the heck out of a human catching a salmon, huh?
MK - Like I said before, you guys are the hope of the world. But you know...
MK - Taking that hope and seeing it get murdered creates a darkened shadow of despair.
MK - And I just find that so... darn... exciting!
LK - What the hell are you talking about!? To kill each other is... it's...!
MK - To kill each other is to kill each other. I'm sure there's a dictionary here somewhere if you need it.
AA - We know what it means, that's not the problem! Why do we have to kill each other!?
HY - Yeah! Stop blabbering on with all this nonsense! Just let us go home already!
MK - ...Blabbering?
[Fades to a pseudo-3D picture of Monokuma's Head]
MK - Blabbering, blabbering, what do you mean blabbering!? Stop blabbering on about blabbering on!
[Fades back to the gym]
MK - You guys just don't get it, do you?
MK - "Let us go, let us go!". You keep on saying the same thing over and over and over and over...!
MK - Listen. From this moment on, this school is your home, your life, your world. Got it?
MK - And you can kill as much as you wanna kill! So go ahead, go on a kill-kill-killing spree!
YH - Already, come on... How long you gonna keep this up?
MK - Eh?
YH - You got us, okay? You scared the hell out of us. So you can go ahead and reveal the trick now.
MK - Reveal the trick...?
YH - Yeah, cuz I mean... Y'know, this is all some kinda trick and all, right? So uh, like...
MO - Dude, shut the hell up and get outta my way.
MN (To himself) - Shoving Hiro aside, Mondo placed himself in front of Monokuma, his voice rumbling like thunder.
MO - Listen up, asshole! This shit's gone way too far! What the hell kinda joke IS this!?
MK - Joke? What, you mean like your hair?
MO - FFFUUUUUUUUUUUUU-!
MN (To himself) - Mondo roared out, and then there was a sudden BOOM!
MN (To himself) - It was the sound of the floorboards as he kicked off and launched himself into the air.
MN (To himself) - He flew at Monokuma, fast and straight as a bullet.
MN (To himself) - He'd locked on to his target...
[Fades to animated scene; Mondo's picking up Monokuma as he's flailing wildly]
MO - Gotcha, you little piece of shit! I dunno if you're a toy or a stuffed animal or whatever the hell!
MO - Either way, I'm gonna rip you to fuckin' shreds!
MK - Waah! Violence against the headmaster is in violation of school regulations!
MO - Shut the fuck up! Let me outta here, or I swear to Christ...
[Fades back to the gym]
MK - ...
MO - What, no smartass comeback this time!?
MK - ...
MO - Stop that goddamn beeping and SAY SOMETHING!
KK - Watch out! Get rid of it!
MO - Huh...?
KK - Hurry up and throw it!
MN (To himself) - I dunno if her ferocity stunned him into silence or what, but without a word he did what he was told.
MN (To himself) - He... threw Monokuma.
MN (To himself) - And as soon as he did...!
[Fades to animated scene; Mondo picks up Monokuma and throws him, with Monokuma exploding]
[White flash, then returns to the gym]
MO - The hell!?
MO - Th-That sure as shit wasn't a joke. It blew the hell up...
MN (To himself) - There was a painful ringing in my ears, and I could smell gunpowder.
MN (To himself) - Explosions might happen all the time in movies or whatever, but when it's in real life...
MN (To himself) - I'd never seen anything like it.
CF - But you know... This means that the teddy bear's been destroyed, right?
MK (Offscreen) - I told you, I'm not a teddy bear! I'm Monokuma!
[Monokuma appears again]
LK - Uwah! There's another one...?
MO - You son of a bitch! You seriously tried to kill me just now!
MK - Well, yes. I was serious about trying to kill you. You did violate one of the school regulations, after all.
MK - I'll let you off with a warning this time, but you'd better be careful from now on.
MK - Any naughty boy or girl who violates my rules won't get off with just a little swat on the butt.
JE - H-Hey... So does this mean there's ;like, a bunch more of you around somewhere?
MK - Monokumas have been placed all throughout the school, yes.
MK - Plus, don't forget the surveillance cameras installed everywhere.
MK - And if you're caught breaking any rules, well... You all just saw what happened, right?
MK - Puhuhu... And I won't be so forgiving with my punishment next time. So don't let it happen again!
AA - Th-That's not even punishment. THat's just... wrong...
MK - Now then, lastly... To commemorate your joyous entry into our school, I have a little something for you...
[Gives e-Handbook]
MK - This is our official student handbook! Pretty cool, huh?
MK - As you can see, it's fully digital. So naturally, we call it...
MK - The e-Handbook!
MN - ...
MK - Ahem. Yes, well, moving on...
MK - This handbook is absolutely vital to a healthy school life, so don't lose it!
MK - When you start it up, it will display your name. Always make sure you have the right one!
MK - Now, this is not your everyday notebook. It has so many more uses than that!
MK - Also, it's completely waterproof. Splash it, wash it, drown it, it'll keep on ticking!
MK - And thanks to its space-age design, it can withstand an impact force of up to ten tons. Very resistant!
MK - It contains all of our school regulations, so make sure you review them thoroughly!
MK - You'll hear me say this a lot, but any violation of school regulations will not be tolerated.
MK - Rules restrict, yes, but they also protect. Society, for example, would be utter chaos without laws.
MK - The same thing applies here! Which is why it's crucial we have strict punishments in place for violators.
MK - Okay, well... that brings our entrance ceremony to a close!
MK - Please enjoy your abundantly dreary school life! And... see ya! [Leaves]
MN (To himself) - And with that, he was gone, leaving us all in a state of shock.
KI - So, guys... How would you define what we just experienced?
LK - How...? Why...? I don't understand any of this...
TF - We have to l-life here forever...? Or... k-kill?
TF - Wh-What...? What just happened!?
KK - Everyone, we need to just calm down.
KK - First, let's just take a second to summarise everything we just heard.
KK - Based on what Monokuma said, we essentially have two choices.
KK - Choice number one is that we stay here, living a "communal life" together until the day we die.
KK - And the other choice is...
CL - If we want to get out of here alive, we have to kill someone. Right?
CF - But... killing someone... That's... 
HY - We were abducted out of nowhere and stuffed into this place meant to look like a school.
HY - And now we're supposed to start killing each other? This is...
HY - This is... this is just...! What IS this!?
KI - A lie, is what it is. All these ridiculous things we've heard. This all has to be fake!
BT - Right now it doesn't really matter if it's real or fake. What matters is...
BT - Is there anyone here who's seriously considering all this...?
MN (To himself) - To that, nobody had a response...
MN (To himself) - Keeping quiet myself, I looked around at the others.
[Fades to show a picture of everyone looking around confused. From the top left, moving across:
Hifumi Yamada, Aoi Asahina, Kyoko Kirigiri, Celestia Ludenberg, Sakura Ogami, Toko Fukawa
Junko Enoshima, Makoto Naegi, Leon Kuwata
Chihiro Fujisaki, Byakuya Togami
Mondo Owada, Sayaka Maizono, Yasuhiro Hagakure
Kiyotaka Ishimaru]
MN (To himself) - They all stared at one another, trying to gauge each other's thoughts. I could almost taste the hostility.
MN (To himself) - And that's when it hit me...
MN (To himself) - I realised the true terror hidden within the rules Monokuma had laid out.
MN (To himself) - "You must kill someone if you want to leave".
MN (To himself) - Those words had planted vicious thoughts deep within each of us.
MN (To himself) - Each of us became suspicious of everyone else. We were forced to wonder, "Is somebody going to betray us?".
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - And that was how my new school life began...
MN (To himself) - This school, which had come out of nowhere to raise my hopes so high...
MN (To himself) - It's *not* a school of hope.
MN (To himself) - It's...
MN (To himself) - ...a school of despair.

(Chapter Screen, Grey Splatters)
[Prologue]
[Welcome to Despair
[END]

[Surviving Students: 15]

[Cue Epic Intro for 'Trigger Happy Havoc']

(Received: School Crest)
(Save)
[Prologue]
[Ending]

[Shows Group Photo from before]
MN (To himself) - "You must kill someone if you want to leave".
MN (To himself) - My mind froze and my breath caught in my throat as I thought about that...
MN (To himself) - I could feel a paralysing fear slowly making its way through my body, dominating every last nerve.
MN (To himself) - The air hung heavy on me, pressing down like a weight around my neck.
MN (To himself) - It took everything I had just to endure that weight...
[Fades to black]

(Chapter Screen)
[Chapter 01]
[To Survive: Daily Life]
(01L)

[Shows Group Photo from before]
MN (To himself) - But for as heavy as the air felt...
MN (To himself) - ...all it took to pierce it was her sharp words.
KK - So? What are you going to do now?
[Fades back to the gym]
KK - Just stand around glaring at each other?
MN (To himself) - Her pointed comment was directed at everyone in the room.
MN (To himself) - It helped pull us all back to reality.
KI - R-Right... She's right!
KI - Sometimes, even if you're nervous or afraid, you just have to step forward!
KI - To forget such a simple fact... I can't forgive myself. I'm so ashamed!
KI - Please, someone hit me! I can't forgive myself! Somebody hit me! Punish me!
MO - Jesus. If you have time to yell about it, you have time to DO something about it.
HY - Perhaps, but... what is the mission, exactly?
LK - Idiot! To look for a way out, duh!
JE - And we totally need to find whoever was controlling that stupid bear and beat the hell out of 'em.
CF - ...B-But before we do all that, maybe we should take a look at the handbook...
CF - It's probably best to check out the school regulations Monokuma mentioned before doing anything else.
CL - True. If we stumble around with no clue what the rules are, something like that might happen again...
MO - Shit...
JE - Fine. Then let's hurry up and check out the stupid rules already.
[Fade to e-Handbook]
[Makoto Naegi]
MN (To himself) - After turning on my e-Handbook, the first thing that appeared was my name.
MN (To himself) - So just like Monokuma said, the owner's name showed up front and center.
MN (To himself) - Then, from the Main Menu that popped up, I selected the School Regulations icon.
[Fades to 'Regulations']
MN (To himself) - An itemised list appeared on-screen. It was the school regulations.
MN (To himself) - In other words, the rules being imposed on us all.
Narrator - Students may reside only within the school. Leaving campus is an unacceptable use of time.
[Fade to next rule]
Narrator - "Nighttime" is from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. Some areas are off-limits at night, so please exercise caution.
[Fade to next rule]
Narrator - Sleeping anywhere other than the dormitory will be seen as sleeping in class and punished accordingly.
[Fade to next rule]
Narrator - With minimal restrictions, you are free to explore Hope's Peak Academy at your discretion.
[Fade to next rule]
Narrator - Violence against Headmaster Monokuma is strictly prohibited, as is destruction of surveillance cameras.
[Fade to next rule]
Narrator - Anyone who kills a fellow student and becomes "blackened" will graduate, unless they are discovered.
[Fade to next rule]
Narrator - Additional school regulations may be added as necessary.
[Fades back to the gym]
MN (To himself) - Feeling a slight dizziness, I raised my face up from the screen.
MN (To himself) - As I looked around, I saw the same stormy expression on everyone's faces.
MO - This is bullshit! What the hell kinda rules are these!? I'm not gonna let them control ME!
CL - Well then, why don't you wander around the school without a care in the world and see what happens?
CL - Personally, I would love to see what happens when someone breaks one of the rules.
HY - But if he got punished like what we saw before, I don't think there'd be a respawn waiting for him...
MO - ...
MO - I... Ever since I was a kid, I grew up with my older brother pounding this into my head...
MO - When a man makes a promise, he has to keep it, even if it kills him.
JE - ...So what?
MO - I've made a ton of promises that I still have to keep, that's "so what"!
MO - So I can't afford to die in here!
CL - None of that made much sense to me, but you are saying you will follow the regulations, is that it?
MO - Huh? Oh, well... yeah, I guess you're right.
SM - Hey, um... I have a question. 
SM - For regulation number six... what do you think it means exactly?
[Fades back to Rule 6]
Narrator - Anyone who kills a fellow student and becomes "blackened" will graduate, unless they are discovered.
[Fades back to gym]
MN - You're talking about the second half, right? Where it says "unless they are discovered"?
MN - I was wondering about that myself.
BT - It's saying that if you want to graduate, you have to kill someone without anyone finding out it was you.
TF - B-But why...? Why do we h-have to do that?
BT - I don't see any reason to worry about it.
BT - Just worry about following the rules as they've been explained to us.
BT - Frankly, I don't want to hear anything from someone who waits for others to decide what to do for them.
TF - D-Don't jab at me...
LK - More like a full-on stab...
AA - Well for now, let's forget all that silly junk about murderers or whatever.
AA - Now that we know the rules, let's start exploring the school!
KI - True. We need to find out where exactly we are. Is there any way out? What about food and supplies?
KI - There are tons of questions we need to answer!
LK - Damn straight! Okay, then let's all start looking around!
BT - ...I'll be going alone.
JE - What!? Why? That's a pretty stupid idea, don't you think?
BT - Someone here might already have started thinking about murdering one of us.
BT - Are you saying we should stand around with them in our midst and make it that much easier for them?
SM - W-Wait, hold on a second. That would never-!
BT - Don't bother saying it couldn't happen. You can't deny the possibility.
BT - That's why you all seized up with fear when that graduation rule was made clear to you.
BT - Am I wrong?
SM - B-But...
SM - ...
BT - So, I'm simply acting in accordance with what I think is best for me.
MO - Hold on! Like hell I'm gonna let you run off and do whatever you want!
BT - Out of my way, plankton.
MO - Wh-!? The fuck's that supposed to mean!?
BT - One tiny bit of plankton, drifting across the sea.
BT - So minuscule, so insignificant, they couldn't possibly have any kind of influence on the boundless ocean.
MO - I'm gonna kick your ass!
MN - S-Stop it! We shouldn't fight!
MO - The fuck you just say? You some kinda goody-goody little bitch?
MO - Who do you think you are, talkin' to me like that? You think you're my fuckin' dad or something!?
MN - N-No, I wasn't-!
MO - Fuck you!
*WHAM*
MN (To himself) - He punched me...
MN (To himself) - ...and I flew back in a heap.
MN (To himself) - It was like something straight out of a comic book.
MN (To himself) - I didn't even see the punch coming. It was just suddenly right there in my face.
MN (To himself) - One second I was standing there, the next I was soaring through the air.
MN (To himself) - Now that I think about it, maybe I'd kinda forgotten...
MN (To himself) - ...the kind of people I'd been trapped here with.
MN (To himself) - My common sense had just... stopped functioning. Being around all these "ultimates" had blown my fuses.
MN (To himself) - So I guess I shouldn't be surprised it led to something as absurd as this.
MN (To himself) - But I'd just... lost track of that sense of reality.
MN (To himself) - That was my last thought as my consciousness started to fade...
MN (To himself) - ...before it finally cut out completely.
MN (To himself) - And when I finally opened my eyes again, what I saw was...
[Fade to Naegi's Room]
MN - Ng... gah...
MN - Huh...?
MN - Wh-Where am I?
MN (To himself) - As if it had become part of my daily routine, I woke up in yet another room I'd never seen before.
MN - Okay, so...
MN - Where am I now?
Narrator - You now have access to the Handbook Menu. You can use this to check a variety of information as you play.
Narrator - Open the Handbook Menu by pressing the Square Button.
Narrator - You can use this menu to check the School Regulations, and character info in the Report Card section.
Narrator - At certain points, Map and Truth Bullets may not be available.
Narrator - You can also save and load game data under the System section.
Narrator - Finally, press the SELECT button to review the Transcript.
Narrator - This records all pertinent info, so use this to review comments from everyone involved.

[Naegi's Room]
[Objects: Note, Trashcan, Key, Door, Monitor, Lint Roller, Shower Door, Bed, 2x Iron Plate, Security Camera, Notepad, Drawer]

{Note}
MN (To himself) - There's a piece of paper hanging up on the wall, which says...
Narrator - "Announcement from Headmaster Monokuma:"
Narrator - "Each room's lock has been designed to completely protect against tampering or lock-picking."
Narrator - "Remaking an individual room key is quite troublesome, so please make sure not to lose yours."
Narrator - "Your room comes furnished with a shower, but please note that the water is turned off at nighttime."
Narrator - "Also, the bathrooms in the girls' rooms include a lock of their own."
Narrator - "Finally, we've prepared a small gift for each of you."
Narrator - "For the girls, a sewing kit."
Narrator - "And for the boys, a toolkit."
Narrator - "The sewing kit includes a map of the body's vital organs. One stab will do the job, girls!"
Narrator - "For the boys, we believe a strong blow to the head with any of the tools should be ample."
Narrator - "Don't think! Just feel! And let's all enjoy ourselves!"
MN - ...
MN (To himself) - I crumpled up the sheet of paper and threw it in the trash.
[Note removed from room]

{Trashcan}
MN (To himself) - Just an everyday trash can. I don't see any kind of trapdoor or hidden compartments or anything...
MN (To himself) - All that's in the trash can is the paper I wadded up and threw away.
[1 Monocoin]

{Key}
MN (To himself) - This must be the key to the room...
MN (To himself) - My name's written on the keychain.
MN (To himself) - Which means it must be mine, right?
MN (To himself) - I'd better hang on to it for now.
[Key removed from room]

{Door}
MN (To himself) - Looks like this door leads outside.
MN (To himself) - It's locked...
MN - So some of the rooms have locks, huh?

{Lint Roller}
MN (To himself) - It's some kind of lint roller. I guess we're supposed to clean up after ourselves...?

{Shower Door}
MN - This would appear to be... the bathroom.
*Rattle rattle*
MN - Huh? It's not opening.
MN - I guess it's locked.

{Bed}
MN (To himself) - There doesn't seem to be anything particularly strange about the bed.

{Notepad}
MN (To himself) - It's a notepad.
MN (To himself) - I guess the school must have given one to each of us...

{Drawer}
MN (To himself) - It looks like there's something in the drawer...
MN (To himself) - It's... a toolkit.
MN (To himself) - It must be brand-new. It's still in the shrink-wrap.
MN (To himself) - I don't really need it right now, so I'll just leave it here.

[After investigating everything]
MN - I think I'm starting to understand. This room must be...
[Fades back to Rule 3 of the handbook]
Narrator - Sleeping anywhere other than the dormitory will be seen as sleeping in class and punished accordingly.
[Fades back to room]
MN (To himself) - This is my assigned dorm room.
MN (To himself) - Someone must have carried me here after I fell unconscious.
MN (To himself) - So that answers that question. The next question is...
MN - What's everyone else up to right now?
MN (To himself) - There's only one way to find out...
MN (To himself) - And that's to get out of here.

{Upon Exiting}
MN (To himself) - I rushed out of the room to meet up with all the others.
MN (To himself) - But there was someone waiting for me there.
MN (To himself) - It was like something out of an old TV show...
*WHAM*
??? - Ahh! (Sayaka)
[Cut to photo of Sayaka on the floor]
MN - Oh-! ...Sayaka?
MN - S-Sorry! Are you okay?
SM - I-I'm fine. I hope you're okay...
SM - Sorry about that...
MN (To himself) - She had an embarrassed smile on her face. I stood up slowly.
[Fades to the dorm corridor]
MN - Are you okay, Sayaka? Are you hurt?
SM - Hmhm, you make it sound worse than it is. I'm completely fine.
SM - I know how I look, but I've actually huilt some pretty good muscle jumping up and down on stage!
MN - That's good, then...
SM - But... are *you* okay? You know, from when Mondo hit you...
MN (To himself) - That's true... I got knocked out right there in front of everyone.
MN (To himself) - I guess I revealed my lack of cool right from the beginning...
SM - Makoto...?
MN - Oh, uh, I'm fine! Nothing wrong here!
SM - Oh, that's good. I was kinda worried...
MN - Th-thanks...
MN - By the way... what are you doing here?
SM - Actually... I came to get you.
MN - You came... to get me?
SM - Well, if you really are feeling better... I was hoping you could come to the dining hall.
MN - The dining hall...?
SM - After you got knocked out, everyone decided to go and do their own thing.
SM - We decided it would be more effective if we split up to investigate.
SM - So we agreed to get together later on and talk about what we'd each found out.
MN - So does that mean it's almost time to get back together?
MN - If that's what's going on, then of course I'll go with you!
SM - Good. I'll go on ahead and meet you at the dining hall, then.
[Despair Hotel opened up for investigation]

(Free Roam)
[Despair Hotel]
[Rooms: Hope's Peak Academy, Dining Room, Laundry, Boys Bathroom, Girls Bathroom, Trash Room, Student Rooms]

{Dining Room}
MN (To himself) - This must be the dormitory dining hall.
SM - It looks pretty clean, so that's good.
SM - ...Er, I guess that's not really important right now, with us being prisoners here and all.
MN - Yeah, that's true...
MN (To himself) - Nobody was there waiting for us.
MN (To himself) - We don't really have much choice. I guess we should just wait here for now.
SM - Hmm... Okay, let's just wait here.
MN - Huh!? You heard that!?
SM - Like I said, I'm psychic.
SM - Come on, I'm just kidding! Seriously, I just have amazing intuition.
MN (To himself) - Is it really just intuition...?
Narrator - It's kind of sudden, I know, but here comes a tutorial!
Narrator - Right now I'd like to talk about reactions.
Narrator - You're gonna be talking to Sayaka, right?
Narrator - Well, while you're talking to her, some [purple words] are going to appear. Here's how they work.
	[purple words]
		Narrator - Oh! Are you familiar with "reactions"?
		Narrator - Well, just in case, let me explain!
Narrator - When [purple words] show up, if you press the Triangle button, you'll go into Reaction Mode.
	[purple words]
		Narrator - Oh! Are you familiar with "reactions"?
		Narrator - Well, just in case, let me explain!
Narrator - At this point, you can use the directional buttons to make a selection, and the Cross button to confirm it.
Narrator - Also, when it comes to that dialogue, you can review whatever you talked about to look for more info.
Narrator - Talking to someone about things like this is called a reaction.
Narrator - Okay, do your best to enjoy your ever-important [school life]!
	[school life]
		Narrator - Ah, have you gone ahead and used it already? Well, that's just wonderful!
		Narrator - Make sure you keep it in mind as the story keeps on moving forward!
		
[Dining Room]
[Objects: Security Camera, Monitor, Door, Clock]
[People: Sayaka Maizono]

{Clock}
MN (To himself) - Um, so... what time is it right now?
MN - What!? 7 o'clock!? At night!?
[Time: Nighttime]
SM - You were unconscious for a pretty long time...
MN (To himself) - I see...
MN (To himself) - Without being able to look out a window, I've lost all sense of time.
MN (To himself) - If I have to stay in this place for too long... I might just go crazy...

{Sayaka}
SM - By the way, Makoto...
MN - Huh? What is it?
SM - W-Well, it's just...
SM - I know this is kind of [continuing the self-introduction thing], but I [wanted to ask you something].
	[continuing the self-introduction thing]
		MN - Continuing our self-introductions?
		SM - We kinda got cut off before, but I had a question I wanted to ask you.
		MN (To himself) - Sayaka wants to ask me something?
		MN (To himself) - I wonder what it is. Now I'm really curious...
	[wanted to ask you something]
		MN - What did you want to ask me?
		SM - Makoto... did you happen to go to Blackroot Junior High?
		SM - Were you maybe... in class 2?
		MN - Y-Yeah, actually... I was.
		SM - I knew it!
		SM - I went there, too! I was in class 4, though. Do you remember me?
		MN - Do I remember...?
		MN (To himself) - Even back in middle school, she was a celebrity with all kinds of "ultimates" surrounding her.
		MN (To himself) - How could I forget?
		MN (To himself) - Almost as surprising as her question was...
		MN (To himself) - ...that she remembered me!
		MN (To himself) - We'd never even talked to each other, but somehow she still knew who I was.
		SM - Hey, are you okay?
		MN - Oh, yeah. I'm just surprised, is all. I wouldn't have thought you'd remember me.
		SM - We went to the same school for three years, of course I remember!
		MN - Well, that's true. But there were lots of students in our grade, right?
		MN - Plus, I've never been the type of person to ever really stand out.
		MN - I'm average at everything, and all my hobbies are totally normal. Even "normal" would call me boring.
		SM - What are you talking about?
		SM - You're so strange!
		MN - S-Strange? That's-!
		SM - Hahaha!
		MN (To himself) - She started giggling even louder.
		MN (To himself) - That somehow mysterious smile of hers made my heart grow calmer.
		MN (To himself) - Her smile was the nicest smile I'd ever seen...
		SM - Anyway, I'm really glad... that I know somebody here.
		SM - Talking to you has made me feel a lot better about all this...
		SM - You're amazing, Makoto!
		MN - N-No, I'm really not...
		MN - I'm nothing at all compared to you "ultimates".
		SM - But *you're* the one that helped me find my courage again. Not any of those "ultimate" students.
		MN - Thank you for saying that...
		SM - And to thank you for helping me out, I'm going to become your Ultimate Assistant!
		MN - Huh? My assistant?
		SM - Yup! I'm your assistant now!
		SM - I'm going to help you out as much as I can, so let's get out of here together!
		MN (To himself) - When she says things like that, it...
		MN (To himself) - It just gets me pumped up!
MN (To himself) - Really...?
MN (To himself) - I wonder what she wants to ask me... Maybe I should ask her first.
[After [wanted to ask you something], the conversation progresses. Otherwise, the conversation ends]
SM - I can't believe no one's here yet. But I'm sure they'll start showing up soon...
MN (To himself) - Almost like he'd timed it, Taka threw open the dining hall doors right as Sayaka said that.
KI - Ah, Makoto! Sayaka! So you two got here first, huh?
KI - Too bad... I was sure I'd beat everyone here.
KI - I guess that just means I don't have enough fighting spirit yet!
KI - Well I won't give up! Next time, I swear I'll win no matter what it takes! Justice shall always prevail!
SM - That's a bit much, don't you think?
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - And soon after that...
MN (To himself) - ...everyone else came strolling in one after another.
MN (To himself) - After a few minutes...
MN (To himself) - ...everyone had gathered in the dining hall.
[Fades to picture of everyone meeting in the dining hall, at the table.]
KI - Okay! It looks like everyone's here. Time to start the meeting!
KI - Let's all go around and share what we found out during our respective investigations!
KI - The sooner we find out what's going on, the sooner we get out of here!
[Fades back to Dining Hall]
JE - Wait, hold on a sec!
KI - What's wrong!?
JE - What about, uh... what's her name? You know, the silver-haired girl.
JE - Uhh... oh yeah, Kyoko!
KI - ...What about her?
JE - She's not here.
KI - What!?
MN (To himself) - I took another look around the dining hall.
MN (To himself) - Sure enough, she was nowhere to be seen.
AA - I wonder where she went. Has anyone seen her?
MN (To himself) - But everyone just shook their heads.
CF - Wait, so *nobody's* seen her...?
MN (To himself) - Why hasn't Kyoko shown up yet?
MN (To himself) - Could it be because...?
[Flashback to Monokuma talking in the Gym]
[MK - Stabbing, strangling, budgeoning, crushing, hacking, drowning, igniting, how you do it doesn't matter.]
[MK - You must kill someone if you want to leave. It's as simple as that.]
[MK - The rest is up to you. Give it your all to achieve the best outcome in the worst way possible.]
[Flashes back to the dining room]
MN (To himself) - Is it possible? Was she really...?
MN (To himself) - No, no. I'm just overthinking things.
KI - Darn it, Kyoko! You're really going to be late like this on the first day of school!?
KI - Not only is she late, she didn't tell anyone she would be late! A most unbecoming personality trait...
JE - You're being a real jackass right now, you know that?
KI - Well what do you want me to do!? Punctuality is everything!
KI - Now then, I declare that the first session of the Hope's Peak Academy briefing meetings has begun!
SM - Makoto... Actually, first of all...
SM - I've talked enough. Maybe we should listen to what everyone else has to say.
MN - Okay, let's do that.
SM - Hmhm. You know...
MN - Huh? What's up?
SM - I feel like I really have become your personal assistant, don't you agree?
SM - I may not be the best assistant in the world, but I'll give it everything I've got.
MN (To himself) - No... you've already done so much as my assistant.

{Sayaka}
SM - Okay, so since you're in the dark about all this, let me lay out what's been going on.
SM - Everyone split up to investigate different parts of the building, but...
SM - [Byakuya] and [Taka] each went off on their own, and so did Kyoko.
	[Byakuya]
		BT - I wanted to try and find some clue as to who's responsible for imprisoning us here...
		BT - But unfortunately, I made no such discoveries. That's all from me...
		KI - Really? That's it?
		BT - If I'd uncovered anything, naturally I would have more to say. But I didn't. So I don't.
		KI - R-Right, understood...
	[Taka]
		KI - I spent some time looking around the dormitory, and...
		KI - There I made the discovery of the century! I found that there was exactly one room for each person!
		AA - Well yeah, I figured that out before anything else...
		JE - Each door already has a nameplate on it, so I guess all the rooms have been assigned already.
		SO - And each room key was attached to a keychain with the owner's name precision-etched onto it.
		MN (To himself) - Which confirms that the room I was in earlier is, in fact, my room.
		JE - And Chihiro and I found out that all the rooms are totally soundproof.
		CF - Your next-door neighbour could scream their lungs out, and you wouldn't hear a thing...
		CL - Well, each room also had a private bathroom, which could also lock.
		JE - But it looked like there were only locks on the bathrooms in the girls' dorms.
		MN (To himself) - Huh? But when I checked my bathroom door before, it definitely seemed like it was locked...
		MN (To himself) - That's weird... I should double-check that later.
		MO - Okay, so they got a bunch of rooms ready for us. They're assuming we're gonna be here a while...
		KI - Well, better to have than have not! At least we don't have to worry about surviving like wild animals.
		TF - Th-That can't be all you have to r-report, can it Mr Honor S-Student?
		KI - ...
		KI - That's all for my report! Let's move on to whoever's next!
SM - It looks like [Leon, Hiro, Junko and Chihiro] all grouped up together.
	[Leon, Hiro, Junko and Chihiro]
		JE - We went all up and down the school, double-checking the windows in all the hallways and classes.
		JE - We wanted to see if we could get any of those metal plates to come off.
		JE - And what happened was...
		LK - Nothing. Not a damn thing. We couldn't get a single one ton budge even a little bit.
		CF - There wasn't any hope of escape anywhere...
		CF - The school really has been totally cut off.
		JE - This sucks...
		JE - It *really* sucks! It sucks sucks sucks sucks SUCKS! What the hell are we gonna do!?
		LK - Goddamn, calm down! You're starting to make me nervous!	
SM - The same goes for [Hina, Sakura, and Mondo]. [Celeste, Toko, and Hifumi] were left over, so they joined up.
	[Hina, Sakura, and Mondo]
		AA - We thought maybe we could find some way to communicate with the outside, so we went looking all over!
		AA - But... we didn't find a thing. Sorry...
		MO - I went back to the main hall, thinking maybe we could do something about that giant hunk of metal.
		MO - But even with Sakura and me both, it wouldn't budge. We hit it with desks and chairs, and nothin'...
		MO - It was hard as, like... metal.
		CL - Well yes, it *is* metal...
		MO - Anyway, if we're gonna get outta here, it's not gonna be through there.
		AA - I feel like I could just cry... But no, I have to hold it in! I have to manage my hydration...!
		SO - I shall tell you what happened next...
		SO - It has nothing to do with communicating with the outside world, but it's still worth worrying about.
		SO - In both the school and dorm areas, there was a set of stairs leading up to another floor.
		AA - But there were gates there, and we couldn't find any way to open them, so we couldn't check it out.
		SO - In other words, at this point we are only able to search the 1st floor.
		SO - We can further assume that there is potentially something above the 2nd floor, as well.
		SO - And if that's the case, there is at least a chance it may lead to a way out.
	[Celeste, Toko and Hifumi]
		CL - If I am being honest, I can't quite say we acted as one.
		CL - Rather, we did *nothing* as one. We spent the entire time in the gym.
		CL - Honestly, we are not exactly the types to go running around a school like a gaggle of junior detectives.
		JE - What the hell were you thinking, just sitting around the gym the whole time?
		TF - W-Well it's not like any of you i-invited me along! Nobody said hey, c-come with us.
		TF - I blame y-you for leaving me out! I-It's your fault!
		JE - If you wanted to go with someone, you should've just said something!
		TF - Hmph. F-Forget it. Like I'd w-want to go anywhere with a dirt s-slut like you...
		JE - Slut...?
		TF - Your mind is as th-thin as your body. You m-make me sick to my s-stomach...
		JE - I... I don't even know how to react. How can you say something so awful to someone you just met?
		YH - Alright guys, everybody just calm down, okay? All this stress is bad for your skin, y'know?
		SM - Yeah! It sounds you two are so close now you're fighting like sisters!
		MN (To himself) - I... don't think that's what's going on, Sayaka...
[After choosing all re: action options]
SM - So that's what they have to say, huh?
SM - Then I guess I'm the only one left...

{Sayaka}
SM - I went and had a look around the dining hall...
SM - I found a fridge in the back of the kitchen, and it was overflowing with all kinds of stuff.
SM - I guess we don't have to worry about food, at least.
HY - Sure, for now. But even with all that, there are fifteen of us. How long can the food last...?
TF - Y-You can just eat sesame s-seeds or something...
HY - Huh? What am I, a parakeet?
SM - I don't think we have to worry about it. All the food gets restocked automatically each day.
SM - At least, that's what Monokuma said...
JE - You saw him!?
SM - Yeah, he came out of nowhere while I was checking the fridge, told me that, then disappeared again.
SM - He was so fast, I can't believe someone could have been moving him around with a remote control...
CF - A weaponised toy that can just appear from nowhere... I can't tell if we're supposed to be afraid or not.
AA - But was everything okay? He didn't try to like, eat you or anything?
HY - E-Eat her...?
HY - Um, what do you mean by that? I mean, when you say "eat", what kind of eating are we talking about?
AA - C-Come on, man!
LK - What the hell, fatty!? You're acting like some kind of sleazy drunk dude.
YH - Not like there's a good kind of drunk dude...
JE - Hey! Stop screwing around, all of you!
JE - Are you still asleep or something? We're prisoners here! We could all just die any second!
MO - She's right. We can't be makin' stupid jokes right now. We gotta do something, or-!
MN (To himself) - A voice cut through the noise, interrupting Mondo.
??? - You're all spending an awful lot of time yelling and carrying on. (Kyoko)
KK - Do you really think you can afford to do so? Have none of you accepted the reality of the situation?
KI - Kyoko! Where the heck have you been!? We already started the meeting without you!
MN (To himself) - She didn't say a word. Instead, she just dropped a piece of paper on the table.
MN - Huh? What's this...?
KK - It appears to be a map of Hope's Peak Academy.
MN - A map...?
KI - Wh-What the...? Where did you find this?
KK - It doesn't matter where I found it.
KI - It DOES matter! You're really freaking us out right now!
JE - Never mind that. What's it mean?
KK - Just look at it.
KK - The building we're in right now is laid out in precisely the same way as Hope's Peak Academy.
MN - So what you're saying is... this really is Hope's Peak Academy?
KK - Well, in terms of its construction, yes.
KK - But it looks like it's had a number of strange... renovations done to it.
MN - Renovations...?
KK - I don't know all the details yet. All I found was details about the 1st floor.
CF - But then... this really is Hope's Peak. We didn't get kidnapped and taken to some other place...
MO - So stupid it's not even possible. *This* is where the country's future elite are supposed to come and learn.
AA - But if this really is Hope's Peak, where are all the other students?
YH - Hey, come on, guys. Let's just stop talking about all this... you know, negative stuff...
MN - But aren't you worried? Things don't look good...
YH - Worried? What's there to be worried about?
YH - I mean, this was all planned out, right? The people in charge of Hope's Peak put this all together, right?
YH - Man, if I got stressed every time something like this happened, I'd have ectoplasm shooting out of my mouth!
YH - Good things come to those who wait, right? So we just gotta chill and everything'll work itself out!
CL - Hahaha!
TF - Wh-Why are you laughing? WHat's so funny!?
CL - I am just happy, that is all. It seems splitting up to investigate was a good idea, after all.
TF - Haven't you b-been listening!? Looking around was a t-total waste of t-time!
TF - We d-didn't find a way out, didn't f-find who's behind this. We still have no idea what's g-going on!
CL - Huh? Is it not crystal clear to you what is going on?
CL - It is perfectly obvious that we have been imprisoned in some secret location, with no way out.
MN (To himself) - None of us had any response to that.
MN (To himself) - We didn't want to accept that reality - but it was staring us right in the face.
TF - You didn't h-have to go and s-say that. I w-was trying not to th-think about it...
TF - N-No way out... We're t-trapped here. What are w-we supposed to d-do...?
BT - It's very simple. If you want to leave, you just have to kill-
JE - Don't even joke about that!
SM - Everyone just calm down, please!
SM - We need to stop and think about what to do from here.
LK - There's gotta be *something* we can do...
CL - All we can do is adapt. Adapt to living our lives here from now on.
CF - Live here...? Are you saying we should just accept it?
CL - A lack of adaptability... is a lack of survivability.
CL - Survival is not based on who is the strongest or the smartest. It comes down to who can adapt.
CL - As someone who has come out on top more than once, I have a suggestion.
MO - Huh? What do you mean?
CL - We all understand that we are trapped here. Which means we will be spending the night. However...
CL - You all remember the rule regarding nighttime, right?
[Fade to Rule 2 in the handbook]
Narrator: "Nighttime" is from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. Some areas are off-limits at night, so please exercise caution.
[Fade to Rule 3 in the handbook]
Narrator: Sleeping anywhere other than the dormitory will be seen as sleeping in class and punished accordingly.
[Fades back to the Dining Room]
CL - So regarding this "nighttime", I think we need to add a rule of our own.
MN - What do you mean?
CL - Going out at nighttime should be prohibited altogether.
CL - The school regulations do not actually tell us not to go out at night. I would like to make it official.
TF - B-But why...?
CL - The way things are now, every time night comes we will all start to get worried and anxious.
CL - We will all be afraid someone might try and come kill us.
SM - What!?
CL - If we have to worry about that night after night for who knows how long, it will wear us down in no time.
SO - SO you're suggesting we limit our activity at night as a kind of preventative measure.
CL - However, unlike the other rules, nobody can be forced to comply. We all have to agree to follow it.
JE - I see what you mean. But... I think I can agree to that.
JE - It's like the little goth lolita said. Without something like that, we're just gonna self-destruct.
KI - On behalf of all the men here, I agree to comply!
LK - Hey, you can't just decide to speak for us!
CL - So everyone is in agreement? Good.
CL - Then if you will excuse me...
CF - Huh? Wait, where are you going?
CL - It is almost nighttime. I want to take a shower before it arrives.
CL - So... goodbye.
MN (To himself) - Moving with pure elegance, Celeste left the dining hall. 
MN (To himself) - Her behaviour seemed so natural, I couldn't imagine anyone even trying to stop her.
HY - S-So I guess it's pretty obvious where we go from here. We'll be spending the night, it looks like.
SO - Adaptability...
JE - So, Mr. Chairman... what next? One person already left.
KI - U-Umm...
KI - Well then, what say we call an end to today's meeting!?
KI - Like she said, it's almost nighttime anyway. We can reconvene first thing tomorrow morning!
CF - Do we really have to stay the night here...?
JE - We don't have a choice. We can't go for long without getting some sleep.
MO - So we have to just give up...
TF - That's all f-fine and good for t-today, but what do we d-do tomorrow?
SO - Our only option is to split up and look around again, and let everyone know if we find anything.
AA - Yeah, okay. Let's do that...!
JE - Then we're done for today? Good, I'm exhausted... [Leaves]
MN (To himself) - With heavy movements, everyone headed off to their private rooms.
SM - Makoto... Are you ready to call it a day?
MN - Yeah, let's go.
[Fades to black, then back to Naegi's Room]
MN (To himself) - ...
MN (To himself) - Is this really where I'll be staying for the foreseeable future?
MN (To himself) - Oh, that's right. I should check the bathroom one more time before I go to bed.
MN (To himself) - Only the girls' bathrooms should have locks on them, right?

[Naegi's Room]
{Shower Door}
MN (To himself) - Alright, let's open it up...
*Rattle rattle*
MN - It's no use. It really is locked.
[Monokuma pops up]
MK - Bzzt! Wrong! Not locked!
MN - Holy crap!
MK - Jeez, talk about an overreaction. It's like you just saw a ghost or something'!
MK - Like... some kind of... robot bear... ghost.
MN - Wh-What are you doing here!?
MK - Makoto Naegi, this is super duper majorly bad! So bad it's almost magical!
MK - Ultra magical awful awful attack!
MK - In point of fact, I achknowledge that the bathroom in your room has a problem with the doorframe!
MN - Wait, sot he reason it won't open isn't because it's locked? The door just... doesn't fit?
MK - Didn't you see the notice? What, can't you read?
MK - The bathrooms in the boys' rooms don't have locks!
MK - I mean, a lock on a boy's bathroom is kinda pointless, don't you think?
MK - Well, it's not that it's pointless, I guess. But I'm no expert on the birds and the bees and all that.
MK - Anyway, there's a little trick to opening this particular ill-fitting door.
MK - And that's what I'm here to teach you!
MK - Okay, ready? So you just gotta turn the doorknob, then lift up while you pull!
MK - Go ahead, give it a try!
MN - Turn the knob, and lift the door up while I pull...
MN (To himself) - When I did that, the door opened without a problem.
MK - Puhuhu... See? It opened right up!
MK - Isn't that crazy, though? Your door's the only one that doesn't fit quite right!
MK - You're supposed to be the Ultimate Lucky Student, right? But looks like you're not lucky at all!
MK - Anyway, I suddenly don't feel like being here anymore. Bye!
MN - H-Hey! Wait!
MN (To himself) - ...
MN (To himself) - Damnit.
*Ding dong, bing bong*
[Fades to school monitor]
MK - Mm, ahem, this is a school announcement. It is now 10 p.m.
MK - As such, it is officially nighttime.
MK - Soon the doors to the dining hall will be locked, and entry at that point is strictly prohibited.
MK - Okay then... sweet dreams, everyone! Good night, sleep tight, don't let the bed bugs bite...
[Fades back to Naegi's Room]
MN (To himself) - Looks like it's nighttime. We all promised we wouldn't leave our rooms now.
MN - All I can do now is try and get some sleep...
MN (To himself) - While still mumbling to myself, I collapsed into bed.
MN (To himself) - My eyes closed almost immediately.
MN (To himself) - It's not that I was ready for bed, exactly. I was just utterly exhausted.
MN (To himself) - It was as if I'd spent an entire day staring at a TV watching movies.
MN (To himself) - Or like some kind of illusion where I'd been tossed into a made-up fantastical world.
MN - Yeah, that feels about right...
MN - There's no easy way to just accept the situation we've suddenly been dropped into.
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - So this is how the curtain closed on my first day at Hope's Peak Academy.
MN (To himself) - Soon enough, I was asleep.
MN (To himself) - Would it be too much to hope that when I woke up, I'd realise it was all a dream?
MN (To himself) - It's kind of lame as far as endings go, but I'd be fine with that. Actually, that'd be the best...
MN (To himself) - ...

(Monokuma Theatre)
MK - In any normal school, Mr. Monokuma would be a kind teacher. But when I think about what's coming up...
MK - ...I'm just so full of pride and joy.
MK - Our ceremony earlier today was absolutely splendid. Thank you all very much.
MK - Remember that you're all students of Hope's Peak Academy, and strive to refine your ideals.
MK - I swear to you, I will send you all off into a new tomorrow!
[Fade to black]
*Ding dong, bing bong*
[Fades back to Naegi's Room, then the school monitor]
MK - Good morning, everyone! It is now 7 a.m. and nighttime is officially over! Time to rise and shine!
MK - Get ready to greet another beee-yutiful day!
[Fades back to Naegi's Room]
MN (To himself) - Apparently, it's morning... But thanks to the total lack of windows, there's no way to know for sure.
MN (To himself) - Anyway... what should I do now?
MN (To himself) - ...
MN (To himself) - Maybe I should go find Sayaka, and we can figure out where to go from here together.
MN (To himself) - She did say she's my assistant now.
MN - Okay, it's decided! I'm gonna head to her room!
MN (To himself) - With a newfound determination, I left my room.
[Fades to dormitory corridor]

{Kiyotaka}
KI - Good morning, Makoto!
MN - G-Good morning...
KI - Yes, morning greetings are quite a delight! Such an energising way to start the day!
KI - Now then, let's make sure we both do our very best throughout the day!
MN - S-Sure...
MN (To himself) - I wonder if he's always like this...

{Sayaka's Door}
MN (To himself) - There's a doorbell next to the door. I guess I should use that.
*Ding dong*
MN (To himself) - ...
SM - Hello...?
MN - Good morning, Sayaka.
SM - Oh, Makoto! Perfect timing!
MN - Huh...?
SM - Listen, I have a [favour] to ask...
	[favour]
		MN - A favour...?
		SM - I was just getting ready to head out. If it's okay, would you like to come with me? Maybe we could talk...
		MN - Yeah, sure. Where are you headed?
		SM - Oh... umm...
		SM - I've been thinking that... there might be something around here I could use for self-defence.
		MN - Self-defence...?
		SM - Well, I mean... whoever's keeping us here could show up and attack us any time. You never know...
		MN (To himself) - Whoever trapped us here...
		MN (To himself) - Whoever presented us with rules for murdering each other...
		MN (To himself) - Whoever put us in this insane position... She's right - we never know when they might attack.
		SM - So I just... want to be able to protect myself no matter what happens.
		MN (To himself) - A weapon to protect herself...
		MN (To himself) - Well... now that I think about it, that display case in the gym entryway had a bunch of stuff. Maybe...
		SM - Oh, the gym? Okay, let's go!
		MN - A-Again...?
		SM - Like I said, I'm psychic.
		SM - Come on, I'm just kidding! Seriously, I just have amazing intuition.
		MN (To himself) - Am I really so easy to predict.
		MN (To himself) - Anyway, we should head to the gym.
		Narrator - For anyone who just haaates walking around the school, we've got some good news!
		Narrator - You can now teleport using the "Map" section of the Handbook Menu.
		Narrator - It's as simple as opening the Map Menu and choosing where you want to go!
		Narrator - However, you can only teleport to hallways and marked waypoints.
		Narrator - Plus, you can't teleport to places you haven't been, or places that are blocked off.
		Narrator - And depending on certain story moments, there will be times when you won't be able to teleport at all.
		Narrator - Finally, try not to teleport inside any walls. There's a chance you could get lost. Forever.
		Narrator - Well then... good luck, and have fun!
		
[Progresses once [favour] has been selected]

[Gym Entrance]
[People: Sayaka]

{Sayaka}
SM - Here we go. I might be able to find something here to protect myself with...
SM - Yeah, I'm sure I'll find something in the display case I can use.

{Trophy Case}
[Trophy Case]
[Objects: Shelves, Terracotta Figures, Gold Buddha, Plaque, Gold Sword, Helmet}

{Shelves}
MN (To himself) - There's all kinds of stuff on the shelves up above.

{Terracotta Figures}
MN (To himself) - Some terra-cotta clay figures...
MN (To himself) - They don't look like the kind of thing you'd put in a high school gym.
[1 Monocoin]

{Gold Buddha}
MN (To himself) - It's... a gold statue of Buddha.
MN (To himself) - Why is something like that on display?

{Plaque}
MN (To himself) - A plaque...
MN (To himself) - I guess it's to commemorate some kind of championship.

{Helmet}
MN (To himself) - It's a helmet of some sort.
MN (To himself) - Why is something like that on display?
[1 Monocoin]

{Gold Sword}
MN (To himself) - Is this... a sword? Oh, no, I think it's just a replica.
MN (To himself) - Still, it's pretty impressive. It's completely covered in a gold coating.
MN (To himself) - But...
MN - Jeez! I barely touched it and I got that gold stuff all over my hands.
SM - Wow, you're right. Your hands are totally gold!
SM - Even just for self-defence, I think it's a little...
MN - Well, it's still better than nothing, I guess.
SM - You should take it with you! It might help liven up your room a little.
MN - You think so?
SM - But I guess you'd better be careful taking it back. You should wrap it in newspaper or something.
MN (To himself) - And just like that, it's been decided...
SM - I don't see anything I could really use for self-defence...
MN - H-Hey, don't worry about it! It's not like you need it right away, right?
MN - Plus, if anything *were* to happen...
MN - When the time comes... I'll protect you.
SM - You'll... protect me?
SM - Thank you for saying that...
SM - If I've got you on my side, I guess I don't need a weapon after all!
MN (To himself) - Sayaka giggled as she said that.
MN (To himself) - That mysterious smile...
MN (To himself) - I can tell it comes from the heart. It makes me feel at ease...
MN (To himself) - When I look at her, I honestly feel like I can do anything.
SM - Okay, we can stop looking for a weapon, then. But as long as we're here, let's hang out a bit more.

[Fades and resets up room]

{Upon attempting to leave before talking to Sayaka}
SM - As long as we have this opportunity, why don't we talk a bit more?

{Sayaka}
SM - Umm...
SM - ...
SM - I know I said I wanted to talk to you, but now that we're here... I don't really know what to talk about.
SM - And I was the one who invited you to come with me, too. Sorry...
MN - It's okay.
MN - I mean, if there's nothing to talk about, then we can just not talk, right?
SM - Huh?
MN - You don't have to force yourself to talk. We can just, I dunno... stare off into space or whatever.
SM - Stare off into space...?
MN - Oh, but you're probably super bored! Just standing around doing nothing...
SM - No, it's not that it's boring. It's just...
SM - I've never really done it before. I don't have a lot of time to just... do nothing.
MN - I-I guess that makes sense.
MN - You're not a normal high school student like me. You've got tons of stuff to do every day.
SM - ...
SM - Hey, um... this is kinda out of nowhere, but...
SM - Makoto, do you have a [dream]?
	[dream]
		MN - Well... what about you, Sayaka?
		MN - What's your dream? I'd love to hear...
		SM - I... My dream is...
		SM - I've always wanted to be a star, as long as I can remember.
		SM - I grew up without a mother, you know...
		SM - And my dad worked really late every night. I was always home alone...
		SM - I was just a kid, ya know? So I was really lonely.
		SM - But that all changed when I saw a pop star on TV for the first time.
		SM - She was so pretty, like a princess. And she could sing, and dance...
		SM - But more than anything else, there was her smile.
		SM - Looking at her smile, I could feel my loneliness melting away.
		SM - I decided that's what I wanted to be someday. I wanted to give that kind of encouragement to others.
		SM - Eventually, that became my dream.
		MN - That's so amazing, though. You were able to actually fulfil your lifelong dream.
		MN - Honestly, it's really incredible.
		SM - ...
		SM - I did whatever it took to reach that dream.
		SM - I mean it. Even some things that... weren't so pleasant.
		MN - Huh...?
		SM - I honestly believed that as long as you kept chasing your dreams, someday they had to come true.
		SM - But to do that, you can't take your eyes off of your dream, not even for a second.
		SM - Even if sometimes it's a bad dream... Whether you're awake, whether you're asleep...
		SM - To make your dream a reality, you have to keep your gaze fixed on it no matter what.
		SM - In that world, if you lose focus for even a split second, you get left behind.
		SM - You have to keep on swimming against the current, without even taking the time to breathe...
		SM - That's the kind of world my dream lives in.
		MN - I-Is it really that tough?
		MN - Is it not fun at all?
		SM - Oh no, don't get the wrong idea. It's super fun!
		SM - But... that's exactly what scares me.
		MN - Huh...?
		SM - I enjoy ever single day I wake up and get to do what I do.
		SM - Everyone in our group is amazing. We're rivals in a way, but they all mean so much to me.
		SM - We've been performing together since we were young, so they're all like family to me.
		SM - Without them, I would have given up on my dream a long time ago.
		SM - To work together, and fulfil our dreams together, has brought me so much happiness...
		SM - But that's the thing that scares me the most.
		SM - If the world gets tired of us, then what happens? What happens to us?
		SM - Then the dream dies, those wonderful days come to an end, and everyone goes their separate ways...
		MN (To himself) - S-Sayaka...
		MN (To himself) - She's trembling...
		MN (To himself) - She must be terrified.
		MN (To himself) - She worked so hard, sacrificed so much, to get where she is. She must be terrified of losing it.
		SM - So that's the reason I decided to come to Hope's Peak.
		MN - Huh? What do you mean?
		SM - Well... they say that if you graduate from here, success is basically guaranteed.
		SM - Which means I could keep on performing with my best friends, for ever and ever.
		SM - At least, that's what I thought.
		SM - I really did believe that, but...
		SM - ...now we're trapped here, with no way out.
		SM - They're probably waiting for me...
		SM - While I'm in here, the world out there is forgetting about me.
		SM - Minute by minute, we're all disappearing.
		SM - But still...
		MN - Sayaka...?
		SM - I can't afford to be stuck in here!
		MN (To himself) - That was the first time I heard her cry out from deep within herself.
		MN (To himself) - She sounds... desperate.
		MN (To himself) - But I can understand why she'd feel that way.
		MN (To himself) - Trapped here this way, the dream she put so much effort into is on the verge of disappearing forever.
		MN (To himself) - And that isn't something that can be fixed with a few kind words.
		MN (To himself) - The weight she's carrying... I can't even imagine it.
		SM - Ah- I'm sorry, I didn't mean to complain...
		SM - I kinda killed the mood, huh?
		MN - No, not at all.
		SM - I'm really sorry...
		MN - ...
		MN - Um, Sayaka...
		MN - ...Actually, are you hungry?
		MN - Before we head back, why don't we go to the dining hall and get some food?
		SM - ...
		SM - So...
		SM - You want me to make us something to eat? I might not look like it, but I'm actually a pretty good cook!
		MN - Wow, really? What's your specialty?
		CM - Chili oil.
		MN - You mean the condiment!?
		SM - Hahaha. Just kidding!
		MN (To himself) - She burst out laughing.
		MN (To himself) - Her earlier mood disappeared, replaced by the bright smile I'd quickly grown used to.
		MN (To himself) - But how'd it happen so fast?
		MN (To himself) - It was almost like a mask, like some kind of neutral expression.
MN - Huh? A dream...?
MN - Umm... I guess you could say I'm still shopping around for one.
SM - Really? Well, I hope you find your dream someday.
MN - Thanks...
MN (To himself) - What's wrong, Sayaka?
MN (To himself) - Asking me about my dreams all of a sudden...
[Progresses once [dream] selected]
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - Anyway, we headed back to the dining hall to get something to eat...
MN (To himself) - ...before returning to our rooms.
[Fades to Naegi's Room]
MN (To himself) - The only thing in my room is... a fake sword covered in gold.
MN (To himself) - All it does is make me feel that much more uncomfortable.
MN (To himself) - Anyway, there's still plenty of time left in the day.
MN (To himself) - I really don't feel like just sitting here. Maybe I'll take a look around...
Narrator - You're about to have your first experience with Free Time. Would you like to hear more?
[If [Absolutely!] is chosen]
	Narrator - As you live out your school life here, you will be given free time at certain points.
	Narrator - During your free time, you can spend time with your fellow classmates to deepen your friendships.
	Narrator - You can also give them presents, which can potentially give them an even better impression of you!
	Narrator - You can get these presents from the MonoMono Machine in the school store. Come by early and often!
	Narrator - At certain points, you'll witness intimate events, and new info will be added to each person's report card.
	Narrator - These events can also open up new skills, which will prove useful as everything plays out.
	Narrator - We strongly encourage you to develop and deepen as many friendships as you can!
	Narrator - Also keep in mind that when you talk with a classmate, time will pass...
	Narrator - When you're finished, you will automatically return to your room.
	Narrator - After a certain amount of time passes, your free time will come to an end and the story will progress.
	Narrator - If you'd prefer not to engage in free time, you can always choose to simply go to sleep to skip it.
	Narrator - We wouldn't recommend this approach, but if you absolutely MUST press forward with the story, then...
	Narrator - Anyway, why don't you try it out by spending some time with Miss Sayaka Maizono?
	Narrator - She's the ideal partner to begin with, don't you think?
	{Transcribers Note: I'll be skipping Free Time until the end, when I'll do it all in one batch through School Mode}
	
(Free Time)

Insert Free Time Event Here

(End of Free Time)
*Ding dong, bing bong*
[Fades to school monitor]
MK - Mm, ahem, this is a school announcement. It is now 10 p.m.
MK - As such, it is officially nighttime.
MK - Soon the doors to the dining hall will be locked, and entry at that point is strictly prohibited.
MK - Okay then... sweet dreams, everyone! Good night, sleep tight, don't let the bed bugs bite...
[Fades back to Naegi's Room]
MN (To himself) - Today's already come to an end...
MN (To himself) - But I swear... tomorrow I'm going to find some kind of clue!
MN (To himself) - I swear!
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - As my eyelids began to slide closed...
MN (To himself) - ...the conversation I'd had with Sayaka that morning began to replay.
MN (To himself) - In a way, it's almost frustrating...
MN (To himself) - Even if I understand where her desperation is coming from, I can't share in it.
MN (To himself) - The pressure she's under is way different from anything a normal high schooler like me goes through.
MN (To himself) - She didn't just stumble into this school the way I did.
MN (To himself) - So I can't say I feel things the way she does.
MN (To himself) - Compared to her... no, compared to everyone else here...
MN (To himself) - ...there's no doubt I just don't match up.
MN (To himself) - I guess that might explain my own frustration.
MN (To himself) - ...

(Monokuma Theatre)
MK - Ahem, so... I'm sure that you've noticed the killing game has begun, but...
MK - ...there's still room for a little laughter.
MK - It seems our newest students, already so filled with despair, still have some hope of escape!
MK - Puhuhu... So when will it begin?
MK - When will their hope begin to die?
MK - Is it time yet? Is it time!?
MK - Heartpounding excitement!

[Fade to black]
*Ding dong, bing bong*
[Fade to school monitor]
(Morning Greeting)
[Fades back to Naegi's Room]
MN (To himself) - ...Morning has come.
MN (To himself) - What should I do today?
(Free Time)

(End of Free Time)
MN (To himself) - There's still lots of time left in the day.
MN (To himself) - I really don't feel like just sitting here. Maybe I'll take a look around...
(Free Time)

(End of Free Time)
*Ding dong, bing bong*
[Fade to school monitor]
MK - Mm, ahem, this is a school announcement. It is now 10 p.m.
MK - As such, it is officially nighttime.
MK - Soon the doors to the dining hall will be locked, and entry at that point is strictly prohibited.
MK - Okay then... sweet dreams, everyone! Good night, sleep tight, don't let the bed bugs bite...
[Fades back to Naegi's Room]
MN (To himself) - The third day here has already come to an end.
MN (To himself) - When will I - no, we...
MN (To himself) - When are we gonna get out of here?
[Fade to black]
MN (To himself) - I laid on my bed and stared blankly at the ceiling.
MN (To himself) - And before I knew it, I'd fallen into an uneasy sleep.

(Monokuma Theatre)
MK - I need an immediate, fast-acting pick-me-up!
MK - If it doesn't act now, it's the same as giving in to regret.
MK - What do you think guides the world? Speed, of course!
MK - That's why Formula One drivers are so popular!
MK - Any idiot can accomplish something if they take it slow.
MK - Even a human piece of excrement could create a masterpiece if they spent their entire life on it!
MK - Someone who does things in a timely fashion is both wise and admirable.
MK - Straight is better than a curve or an angle. Freestyle is better than the backstroke or breaststroke!
MK - Drive-thru is better than sit-down! A Sunday comic artist is smarter than a graphic novelist!
MK - What I'm saying is, speed is the gold standard of the standard world.
MK - Which is why I said I need that pick-me-up!
MK - (Meanwhile, 0.000002 seconds later...)

[Fades to black]
*Ding dong, bing bong*
[Fades to Naegi's Room]
(Morning Greeting)
[Fades back to Naegi's Room]
MN (To himself) - I woke up to the irritating sound of Monokuma's voice; I slowly pulled myself out of bed.
MN - Gh...
MN - Another night of restless sleep. Day after day, I can feel the fatigue piling up...
MN (To himself) - As soon as the thought had crossed my mind...
*Ding dong*
MN (To himself) - ...the sound of the doorbell forced its way into my room.

{Door}
KI - A fantastic morning, isn't it!?
MN - T-Taka...?
KI - Now then, if you'll pardon the interruption...!
MN (To himself) - Without waiting for a reply, Taka barged into my room.
[Kiyotaka enters]

{Kiyotaka}
MN - ...What's up, Taka?
KI - No matter how intensely the stormy seas may batter me, I will not fall as long as my feet are firmly planted!
KI - ...You agree, right?
MN - U-Um, I'm not sure I understand...
KI - And if you can't do it alone, just find someone to support you, and you can support them back!
KI - That's how you can overcome any storm!
MN - ...
KI - I was thinking about it last night, and... I decided we all need to really come together.
KI - And that was when I realised...
KI - Every morning from now on, after the morning announcement, everyone should have breakfast together!
KI - And now is the beginning of that fateful day! Please head to the dining hall at your earliest convenience!
KI - That's all for now! I have to go let everyone else know the good news! [Leaves]
MN (To himself) - Taka didn't even wait for a reply. He turned and left, before I could say a thing.
MN - Well... I guess I'd better head to the dining hall.

{Exit (After talking to Kiyotaka)}

[Dining Room]
{People: Toko Fukawa, Byakuya Togami, Sayaka Maizono, Sakura Ogami, Mondo Owada, Yasuhiro Hagakure, Kyoko Kirigiri, Hifumi Yamada, Aoi Asahina, Chihiro Fujisaki, Kiyotaka Ishimaru, Leon Kuwata, Celeste, Junko Enoshima}

{Toko}
TF - What's the point of t-talking to me...?
TF - Taka's the o-one who got everyone t-together. Go talk to him if you have qu-questions or whatever...

{Byakuya}
BT - ...
MN (To himself) - He let out a heavy, annoyed sigh.
MN (To himself) - I'd rather be ignored completely than suffer that kind of insult.

{Sayaka}
SM - Good morning to you, Makoto.
MN (To himself) - She can make even a basic greeting feel eloquent somehow. That's the power of a celebrity, I guess.
SM - Is everything okay?
MN - O-Oh, yeah! Good morning, Sayaka.

{Sakura}
SO - Good morning.
MN - G-Good morning...
SO - To bring everyone together for a breakfast meeting is a very... Taka-esque suggestion.

{Mondo}
MO - Yo.
MN - Good Morning...
MO - Let's just hurry up and get this over with. Taka's getting antsy.

{Yasuhiro}
YH - Mornin'.
YH - Man, waking up to the sound of Taka's squawking is... not a fun way to start the day.

{Kyoko}
KK - Taka looks pretty impatient. We'd better get this started already...

{Hifumi}
HY - Good morning...
MN - Hifumi...? You don't seem too energetic...
HY - How can I be? I got woke up by that annoying, obnoxious, nightmarish guy...
HY - This is why I hate 3D so much.

{Aoi}
AA - Good-mor-ning-Ma-ko-to!
MN - Morning...
AA - Breakfast time! Breakfast time! Gotta eat a big breakfast at breakfast time!

{Chihiro}
CF - Good morning...
MN - Good morning, Chihiro.
CF - It's nice to get to eat with everyone... With so many people, it's actually kind of fun.

{Leon}
LK - What are you looking at me for? Mr. Goody Two Shoes is running the show for now.

{Celeste}
CL - A breakfast meeting, eh?
CL - Perhaps it will keep me entertained and make life with everyone here a bit more bearable.

{Junko}
JE - Okay, okay, if I absolutely MUST talk to you, let's just hurry up and start the stupid meeting!
JE - Taka's gonna throw a fit if we don't.

{Kiyotaka}
KI - Okay, looks like everyone's here. So then, let's begin our very first "breakfast meeting"!
[Fade to black, then picture of everyone seated in the Dining Hall}
KI - Everyone, thank you for making time in your busy schedules to come together.
LK - I didn't make time for shit. You dragged me here...
KI - I know I already mentioned this earlier, but...
KI - In order to get out of here, it is essential that we all cooperate with each other.
KI - And the first step is this breakfast meeting, to allow us to become friends and build trust!
KI - So from now on, let's all meet here in the dining hall every morning after the morning announcement!
KI - Now then, let's eat!
[Fade back to the Dining Hall]
TF - You w-want me to eat breakfast with other p-people? I've never done that b-before. I'm not s-sure...
LK - Yeah, it's been a while for me, too.
JE - Well anyway... did anyone happen to come up with any clues?
MN (To himself) - Silence echoed throughout the dining hall.
JE - Seriously? Nothing at all?
JE - Anything, it can be about how to get out, or who's doing this, nobody has anything!?
CL - ...You are going to die.
JE - Huh...?
CL - If you can't stop yourself from showing weakness in front of others...
CL - ...you will die.
JE - Wh-What the hell? Don't even freaking joke about that!
CL - I am not joking. Adaptability is survivability. Did I not say so?
CL - So you'd better hurry up and adapt to your new life here.
JE - Have you gone completely insane? Adapt to my new life here? Do you have any idea what you're saying?
MO - Yeah, sounds like the girl wants to live here. And hell, more power to her.
MO - But shit...
MO - No way in hell am I living here! I'm gettin' outta here, I don't give a shit!
CL - Hmhm. Sure, feel free.
LK - Okay, so... nobody has any clues?
AA - One thing I can tell you is who's behind all this. Someone who's totally weird and messed up.
AA - Why else would we be trapped in here in the first place?
LK - Well, sure, it could be something like that. But for right now, actual clues are...
CF - U-Umm...
LK - Huh? What's up?
CF - If you think in terms of people who are really abnormal or bizarre...
CF - Do you think maybe the person responsible for all this could be a [certain murderous fiend]...?
	[certain murderous fiend]
		MN - A murderous fiend... Chihiro, do you have some idea who might be behind all this?
		CF - Well... maybe. I mean, I can't really be certain, but...
		KI - Certainty is not a concern right now! I'll allow whatever remarks you may have!
		CF - O-Okay, well...
		CF - Have you guys heard of Genocide Jack?
		MN - You mean that serial killer that's been in the news and all over the Internet?
		BT - The monstrous villain who's murdered scores of victims in brutally bizarre fashion...
		BT - The word "bloodlust" was left at each murder scene, written in the victim's own blood.
		BT - Whoever it is, he's like a ghost. He strikes without warning, and disappears without a trace.
		BT - And on the Internet, they started calling him...
		BT - Genocide Jack. That about covers it, I think.
		YH - They say he's claimed over a thousand victims...
		JE - That's just an urban legend though, right? I mean even like, ten people would be totally insane.
		TF - ...
		CF - Anyway, whoever Genocide Jack really is, he's obviously some kind of super crazy killer.
		MO - And if he really is this "ultimate" psycho, I wouldn't be surprised if he put together something like this.
		CF - But like I said, I can't be certain. I don't have any evidence or anything. It's just a thought...
		LK - But if they're the killer, isn't that like a killer of a problem for us!?
		AA - It's okay! Everything's absolutely, positively, one hundred percent without a doubt gonna be okay!
		AA - Cuz help's gonna be here soon, I'm sure of it!
		TF - Huh...? H-Help?
		AA - We've been stuck in here a few days already, right?
		AA - Nobody's been able to contact us, so I'm sure they're getting worried. I bet they called the police already!
[Progresses after [certain murderous fiend]
??? - AHHH-HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!
MK - The police? You're putting your faith in the police!?
SO - What are you doing here!?
MK - You guys, seriously... Do you understand what role the police exist to fill?
MK - All they're good for is being a foil, playing against a villain or anti-hero or evil organisation.
MK - The bad guys come along and destroy them, and that shows just how badass they really are.
MK - Are you sure you wanna rely on such an unreliable group of losers?
MK - I mean come on! If you really, REALLY wanna get out of here, all you gotta do is kill!
YH - Hahahaha!
LK - Why the hell are you laughing?
YH - I'm just impressed at the total commitment to this whole act.
JE - ...You're still going on about that?
MO - So, mister serial killer psycho freak bastard... what the hell do you want!?
MK - Mr Serialkillerpsychofreakbastard, huh? That's a pretty long name! German, maybe?
MO - We know who you really are!
MK - Maybe if I ignore him, he'll just go away..
MO - Hey! Don't ignore me, asshole!
MK - Okay, okay, let's get back to business.
MK - Your life here has already begun and a couple of days have gone by, and nobody's killing anybody!
MK - I thought all you kids were lazy and selfish, and here you are working together. But I'm totally bored!
MN - There's nothing you can say that'll make us start killing each other...
MK - Wait, I think - yes! Ding ding ding! I figured it out!
MK - All the mystery ingredients are here - right people, right place. So why hasn't anyone killed anyone yet?
MK - That's what I couldn't understand. But I just realised there was one very important piece missing!
MN - Wh-What are you...?
MK - If you wanna know, I'll tell ya! It's motive!
MK - Puhuhu! It's so simple! I just have to give everyone a motive!
MO - Motive? What the fuck are you talking about!?
MK - Oh, by the way! There's something I wanna show you guys!
MO - Stop changing the goddamn subject!
MK - I have a little video I'd like you all to see.
MK - Oh, but don't worry. It's not some pervy "adult" video or anything. Seriously, it's nothing like that!
MK - It's a special video for each of you showing what's going on outside the school.
MN - Outside the school...? What are you talking about?
MK - Hehe-heh! Ooh, Master's so impatient today! Why don't you just watch it and find out?
MK - Here in the school, there's a specific place you can go that has everything you need to watch the video.
KK - Good, then we ccan go watch the video right now.
KK - But before we do that, I'd like to know...
KK - What are you? Why would you do something like this?
KK - What do you want from us?
MK - What do I want from you...?
MK - Well, if you must know...
[Fade to closeup of Monokuma's Head]
MK - Despair. That's all.
[Fade back to Dining Hall]
MK - If you want to know more than that, you'll have to figure it out for yourselves.
MK - Do whatever you need to to uncover the mystery hidden within this school. I won't try and stop you.
MK - Cuz to be honest, it's entertaining as heck watching you guys search so desperately for answers!
MK - So I guess I want amusement from you, too. [Exit]
SM - He's gone...
SM - And once again, he left before we could find out anything useful.
KK - really? I think we learned something *very* useful.
KK - He has no intention of standing in the way of our pursuit of the truth. Interesting...
SO - perhaps, but what about the video he mentioned? I'm very curious to see what's on it.
MO - Same here! Okay, so...!
MN (To himself) - Mondo started glancing around the dining hall...
MN (To himself) - ...but when his gaze landed on me, he stopped,
MO - Hey Makoto! Check this out for us, would ya?
MN - Huh? Why me!?
MO - Cuz you're closest to the door! That's the rule, right?
MN - R-Rule...?
MO - Hey, hey...
MO - Hey hey hey hey hey!
MO - HEEEEEY!!!
MO - You see how passionately I'm begging you!? What's the big deal? Just check it out real quick!
MN - ...
MN - O-Okay... I guess I'll get going, then.
MO - Awesome, thanks! I owe ya one!
SM - ...If Makoto's going, I'm going with him. It's not safe to walk around this place alone.
MO - Yeah, sure thing. Then we're countin' on the both of ya!
MO - If anything happens, just yell and I'll come runnin'!
[Exit to hallway]
SM - I can't decide if Mondo is totally dependable or completely terrible...
MN - Yeah, I'd have to say he's kind of both.
MN (To himself) - He's not exactly a bad person...
MN (To himself) - But I definitely can't say he's a good person, either.
SM - So then, where's this "specific place" Monokuma mentioned?
SM - It must be somewhere you can watch DVDs, but...
MN (To himself) - If it's a place set up to watch DVDs, then

{A/V Room}
[A/V Room]
[Objects: Monitor, Computer, Disks, Security Camera]

{Disks}
MN (To himself) - Huh? There's something inside this cardboard box.
MN (To himself) - It's...!
SM - ...a bunch of DVDs.
SM - And each one has a label on it with someone's name.
MN - This must be the "video for each of us" he mentioned...
SM - I'd better go tell everyone! [Leaves]
MN (To himself) - She just ran off...
MN (To himself) - I didn't follow after her. I just stood right there where I was.
MN (To himself) - The DVDs in front of me had robbed me of all awareness. I was rooted in place...
MN - I think I see something...

{Computer}
[After looking at disks]
MN (To himself) - Next to the monitor is a high-end DVD player. It'll probably play those DVDs no problem.
MN - Maybe I'll just watch mine real quick, before everyone else gets here.
MN (To himself) - I sorted through the DVDs I'd found in the box and found the one with my name on it...
MN (To himself) - ...then I slid it into the expensive-looking player.
MN (To himself) - I sat down and stared intently at the darkened screen. And then...
[Fades to black, then 'video' (actually a photo) of Makoto's family all sitting on their couch]
MN - Ah-!
MN (To himself) - I yelled out without realising it, and my heart started racing.
MN (To himself) - Because what I saw on that monitor...
MN (To himself) - It was my family.
Makoto's Mom - You getting picked to attend Hope's Peak Academy is like a dream come true. Make sure you do your best!
Makoto's Dad - I'm so proud of you, son. But remember-  don't push yourself too hard!
Makoto's Sister - Are you really watching this, Makoto? Good luck, okay?
MN (To himself) - If it had ended there, that would've been fine. A message of love and support.
MN (To himself) - After leaving my family behind to attend Hope's Peak, it would have given me hope, given me strength.
MN (To himself) - If this was a normal school, I would've been happy, if a little embarrassed.
MN (To himself) - With my family's support to rely on, I would've been motivated to do even better.
MN (To himself) - But here, now, it was totally different.
MN (To himself) - I *wasn't* living an ordinary school life.
MN (To himself) - So I had a pretty strong feeling that the video wasn't going to end there.
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - I hated having that feeling, but...
MN (To himself) - ...it turned out I was absolutely right.
[Fades back to the same room as shown before, except there's no one there. The window has a giant hole, with glass cracks, the couch is torn and there's stuffing everywhere. The photos on the wall are cracked and the table is bent in two]
MN - ...!
MN (To himself) - This time, I couldn't even make a sound.
MN (To himself) - My voice just... died.
MN (To himself) - Where'd everyone go...?
MN (To himself) - It looks like a warzone or something...
MN (To himself) - As if in reply, a voice came floating out of the speakers.
MN (To himself) - I recognised the voice, of course. It was *him*...
MK - Makoto Naegi, accepted into Hope's Peak Academy. And his family, who supported such a lucky boy...
MK - But it seems like... something's happened to this family's well-being!
MK - Oh boy, this is bad! What could have possibly happened to this family's well-being!?
[Fade to black screen with words on it]
LOOK FOR THE ANSWER AFTER GRADUATION
[Fades back to the A/V Room]
MN - Wh-What is this?
MN - What happened to everyone!?
MN (To himself) - I started trembling...
MN (To himself) - I could feel the fear and anger building up inside me, like hot magma.
MN - GOD DAMNIT
MN (To himself) - I slammed my fist against the desk over and over again. A single thought was racing through my mind...
MN (To himself) - What else? How could I think about anything else?
MN -I have to get out of here.
MN - I have to get out, right now! I need to make sure everyone's safe!
??? - Makoto...? (Sayaka)
SM - What happened? Make sure who's safe?
MN (To himself) - I noticed everyone standing around the entrance to the A/V room. They stared at me, faces full of confusion.
AA - Wh-What's going on?
MN (To himself) - Without a word, I pointed to the cardboard box.
LK - Is that what Monokuma was talking about?
KI - What's on them?
MN (To himself) - They all gathered around the box, and each of them grabbed the DVD with their name on it.
MN (To himself) - One by one, they each rushed to a monitor.
MN (To himself) - It didn't take long for them to react.
MO - What the fuck...?
AA - Th-This can't be real, right? It has to be fake, right!?
LK - Yeah, no way it's real. Haha... no way.
TF - I can't t-take it anymore...
TF - I c-can't take this anymore! Let me out of h-here!
MN (To himself) - As soon as I saw their reactions, I knew... They'd all seen something like what I'd seen.
MN (To himself) - Nobody even bothered trying to hide their fear and confusion.
MN (To himself) - Except for *her*. Even now, she was totally calm.
KK - I see... So this is what he meant by motive.
KK - He wants to fuel our desire to leave so that we're more likely to start killing each other.
CL - It is the classic "prisoner's dilemma".
HY - ...Huh?
CL - Let me use an example. Imagine two countries are on the brink of war.
CL - But both countries want peace, and each commits to scaling back their forces as a sign of good faith.
CL - But there's a chance that one country may betray the other, so each country fears lowering their guard.
CL - The result is that neither scales back their forces, and they both end up betraying each other.
CL - In other words, the fear of invisible treachery becomes the greatest enemy of stability.
TF - That kinda sounds l-like us right now...
TF - Everyone says they'll work together, but in our hearts we're all afraid someone might betray us...
KI - Don't put those awful thoughts in our head! That's exactly what they *want* us to do!
LK - You can say that, but maybe you're thinking that once everyone drops their guard, you can just...
KI - What!?
SO - This is exactly what Monokuma, or whoever's behind this, wants. They *want* us to fight. Don't you see?
CF - Yeah, you're right. We all need to calm down...
JE - Okay, then. Maybe we should start by all just... talking.
JE - Maybe if we all just talk about what we saw, that'll help get everything out of our system.
JE - Besides, I think we're all super curious, right?
MN (To himself) - I wonder what was in everyone's videos...
MN (To himself) - I'd be lying if I said I wasn't curious.
MN - Hey, Sayaka...
SM - ...
MN - What was in your video, Sayaka?
SM - ...
TF - What's wr-wrong? Just hurry up and t-tell us...
SM - ...
MN - Sayaka?
MN (To himself) - I gently placed my hand on her shoulder.
SM - ...Stop it! [Exit]
MN (To himself) - She pushed my hand away and suddenly ran off.
AA - Sayaka!?
BT - Let her go.
MN - I-I can't do that!
MN - I have to go make sure she's okay!
TF - I h-hate romantic comedies like this. I don't care what h-happens to her, personally...
JE - That's because you're totally thoughtless!
AA - I'm... really worried.
CL - Then why don't you go do whatever you think you have to? We don't all have to stick around together, right?
CL - Speaking of which, I have my own things to take care of. Goodbye. [Exit]
MN (To himself) - Everyone went their separate ways...
MN (To himself) - But I don't have time to worry about them right now.
MN (To himself) - I have to go find Sayaka!

{Exit}
[Hallway]
MN (To himself) - Where could she have gone?
MN (To himself) - She can't have gone far. I should check around the school...

{Room 1-A}
[People: Sayaka Maizono}

{Sayaka}
MN (To himself) - I found her in one corner of an empty classroom.
MN (To himself) - She was sitting in a chair, hands on her knees, staring absently at the floor.
MN (To himself) - She looked like maybe she was upset, or angry. Or, no...
MN (To himself) - ...She didn't have any expression at all.
MN (To himself) - There was nothing on her face that you could call emotion.
MN (To himself) - It was as if her original mask had been stripped away.
MN - S-Sayaka? Are you okay?
SM - Yeah... I'm fine.
SM - Actually, no... how could I possibly be fine?
SM - What did we do to end up like this...?
SM - Why are they doing such terrible things to us...?
SM - I want out! Let me out of here right now!
MN - Sayaka! Calm down!
MN (To himself) - As she thrashed around, I grabbed her by the shoulders.
SM - ...!
MN - I understand. I know how you feel right now. When I think what might have happened to my family...
MN - But now more than ever we have to stay calm!
MN - This is exactly what they want. They *want* us to lose our composure and stop thinking rationally.
MN - Think about it - those videos have to be fake!
MN - Because if those things really had happened...
[Fades back to frame of Naegi's home after it got wrecked.]
MN - ...people out there would be in an uproar. Our families, the police, everyone!
MN - Right?
[Fades back to the room]
SM - ...
MN - So let's just calm down, okay?
MN - Otherwise, we've already lost.
MN (To himself) - I knew I was trying to convince myself just as much as her.
MN (To himself) - I kept repeating those words to myself, to clear away the images that had been burned into my brain.
MN (To himself) - Be calm, okay?
MN (To himself) - Just be calm...
MN - As long as we work together, I'm sure we can find some way out of here.
MN - And help might even come before that.
SM - But... what if there *isn't* a way out? What if help *never* comes?
MN - I-If that happens...
MN - ...then I'll get you out of here myself! No matter what it takes!
[Fade to black]
MN (To himself) - When I said that, I paused...
MN (To himself) - I had no idea what had come over me.
[Fade to picture of Makoto and Sayaka in a classroom]
MN - Sayaka...?
SM - Please... help me...
MN (To himself) - Her voice was small and shaky.
SM - Why...? Why is this happening to me?
SM - To kill, or be killed... I just can't take this anymore...!
MN - Sayaka...
SM - ...
[Fade back to the room]
MN (To himself) - Finally, she raised her face up from my chest.
MN (To himself) - She looked at me with those big, wet eyes of hers.
SM - Can I... can I believe what you said?
MN - Huh?
SM - That you'll help me get out?
SM - No matter what it takes...?
MN - A-Absolutely!
SM - Makoto... You're the only one I can trust. So please...
SM - No matter what happens, please always be there for me. I need you on my side...
MN - Huh?
MN - O-Of course I'll be there for you!
MN - No matter what, I'm always on your side. I mean...
MN - ...you *are* my assistant, after all.
SM - ...
SM - Thank you, Makoto.
SM - Hearing you say that, I feel like I can keep going.
SM - I can get through this... as long as you're here with me.
SM - Like you said, I'm your assistant.
MN (To himself) - The smile I'd come to know so well returned to her face.
MN (To himself) - It felt a little forced, but still...
MN (To himself) - It was a huge improvement over how she was before.
[Monokuma Enters]
MK - ...It's standing up!
SM - Kyah!
MK - Makoto! It's standing up!
MN - *What's* standing up!?
MK - Do you even have to ask?
MK - Your flagpole!
MN - Get the hell out of here!
MK - No! No! I wanna join in!
MN - Damnit! Well if you won't leave, then tell us what the hell is up with those videos!
MK - Ahh... it's about to come out...
MK - It's gonna come out! My pristine, pure white...
MK - ...stuffing!
MK - My honest, innocent stuffing is about to come gushing out!
MN (To himself) - I balled up my fist, took aim, and swung as hard as I could.
MN (To himself) - I had never put so much energy into a single motion before in my life.
MN (To himself) - I leaned back, channeling all my power, and let go with everything I had...!
MK - Guwah!
SM - A-Are you okay!?
MK - If I hadn't avoided your punch, you would have just violated school regulations.
MK - But boy are you slow slow slow slow SLOW!
MK - I could've downed a thousand-dollar full-course dinner in the time it took you to finish your swing!
MK - Your speed, agility, alertness, passion, boldness, sense of despair, antagonisation, it's all lacking! [Leaves]
MK - ...
SM - What the heck was that just now...?
MN - He just wanted to mess with us...
SM - Well, for now... you wanna just head back?
MN - Yeah...
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - Monokuma had come along and swiftly destroyed the good mood we'd just created.
MN (To himself) - Sayaka and I headed back to the dorms.
[Fade back to the dormitory corridor]
MN - You should get some rest, Sayaka. You still look pretty shaken.
SM - I'm sorry for making you worry about me...
SM - You're right. I'm going to lay down for a bit. [Leaves]
MN (To himself) - With a nod and a small bow, she disappeared into her room.
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - Now on my own, I headed off to tell everyone that Sayaka was okay.
MN (To himself) - Once that was done, I decided to go back to my room.
MN (To himself) - It was hard to think after watching that deranged video. I needed some rest of my own.
[Fade to Naegi's room]
MN (To himself) - Jeez...
MN (To himself) - Seriously, what's going on here?
MN (To himself) - There's just so many problems.
MN (To himself) - I can't even decided what the biggest problem is...
MN (To himself) - That we're trapped in here?
MN (To himself) - That what I saw in that video might be real?
MN (To himself) - Monokuma?
MN (To himself) - What the mastermind has in store for us?
MN (To himself) - Or... are *we* our biggest problem?
MN (To himself) - ...
MN (To himself) - I want to get out of here.
MN (To himself) - But I could never kill someone...
MN (To himself) - Do the others all feel the same?
MN (To himself) - ...
MN (To himself) - Yeah, that's definitely the biggest problem right now.
MN (To himself) - ...
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - ...
MN (To himself) - ...
*Ding dong*
MN (To himself) - Huh?
[Fade to Naegi's room]
MN (To himself) - When I opened my eyes, they darted immediately to the clock.
MN - It's almost 10 o'clock. I fell asleep without even realising it...
MN (To himself) - Nighttime's about to start...
MN - ...so how come someone's here?

{Door}
SM - I'm really sorry to come by so late...
MN (To himself) - Sayaka!?
[Sayaka enters the room]

{Sayaka}
MN - Sayaka? What are you doing out so late?
MN (To himself) - That's when I noticed...
MN (To himself) - Her body was trembling.
MN - I-Is everything okay...?
SM - Sorry to bother you, but... [something really weird] just happened.
	[something really weird]
		MN - Something... weird?
		SM - Just a little while ago, I was laying down in my room... {Transcribers Note: A few of these lines are actually written as Makoto's lines, even though they're Sayaka's}
		SM - And all of a sudden, my door started rattling and shaking.
		MN (To himself) - Her voice sounded like all the air had been squeezed out of her lungs.
		MN (To himself) - Just hearing her talk made me tense up.
		SM - It was like someone was trying to force the door open.
		SM - My door was locked, so they couldn't get in, of course.
		SM - But they started shaking the door harder and harder.
		SM - I was so scared I couldn't even move.
		MN - S-So what happened!?
		SM - After a while, it just... stopped.
		SM - I let some time go by, then I got up and opened the door to check outside...
		SM - But there was nobody there.
		MN - Someone tried to force their way into your room...?
		MN - But... who would do something like that?
		SM - It's not like I'm suspicious of anyone here, but still... it makes me nervous.
		SM - What if something like that happened in the middle of the night? What would I do then...?
		MN - Y-You don't have to worry about that, right? I mean, we can't go outside during nighttime.
		SM - But that's just a promise we made, right? If someone decided to break that promise...
		MN - Th-Then...
		MN - Why don't you stay in my room tonight? Would that make you feel a little better?
		SM - What!?
		MN - All it said in the school regulations was that we had to sleep in "the dorm rooms", right?
		MN - It didn't state specifically *which* room each person had to sleep in. So...
		SM - B-But... two people sharing one room is... you know...
		MN - ...Ah!
		MN - Oh jeez, I'm sorry! I didn't even think about that!
		MN - Honestly, that didn't even cross my mind!
		SM - No, I know, me either. It's not even that I mind the idea, but...
		SM - ...
		SM - Um, if you don't mind, could we maybe switch rooms? Just for tonight?
		MN - Switch rooms...?
		MN - I-If it'll help put your mind at east, then it's totally fine with me.
		MN - But... I don't mind you staying in my room, but...
		MN - ...are you sure you're okay with me staying in yours?
		MN - That doesn't, like... concern you?
		SM - It's fine. I trust you...
		MN - In that case, then...
		*Ding dong, bing bong*
		(Night Announcement)
		SM - Oh man, it's already nighttime...
		MN - Okay, so it's settled. I'll head to your room right now.
		MN (To himself) - Oh, if we're gonna trade rooms, we'd better trade keys, too.
		SM - Ah, that's right. We'll have to trade keys.
		MN - Again!?
		SM - Like I said, I'm psychic.
		SM - ...
		MN - ...Huh? Hey, aren't you gonna say you were just kidding?
		SM - What if I *wasn't* just kidding...?
		MN (To himself) - Something resembling a smile had made its way to her face.
		MN (To himself) - Thank goodness. It looks like she's already started to get back to normal.
		MN - Okay, we'd better trade keys, then.
		SM - Yup, let's do it.
		MN (To himself) - We exchanged keys, and when I looked back up at her again...
		MN (To himself) - ...there was another worried expression there.
		SM - Makoto... please be careful. If someone comes to the door, don't open it no matter what.
		MN - I won't.
		MN - The same goes for you, Sayaka. No matter who it is, don't open your door for anyone.
		SM - Even if I'm sure it's you, I absolutely won't open it. Otherwise, what's the point of even switching?
		MN - Oh, by the way... Just so you know, my bathroom door tends to get stuck.
		MN - There's a little trick to opening it...
		MN - You have to turn the knob, then lift up on the door while you pull it out.
		MN - Just do that and the door should open no problem.
		SM - OKay, but the showers don't work during nighttime anyway, right?
		MN - Oh, that's right. I totally forgot...
		SM - But I guess I might use it when I get up in the morning. So thank you.
		MN - Okay, well, I'd better get going.
		MN - See you tomorrow, Sayaka.
		SM - Oh, and about what I said before...
		MN - Hm?
		SM - When I said I was psychic, it really was a joke. Honestly, I'm just very perceptive.
		MN - Yeah, I know.
		SM - ...Good night, then.
		SM - See you in the morning.
		MN (To himself) - Sayaka gave me one last parting smile, and I headed off to "my" room.
		[Fade to the corridor]
		MN (To himself) - I looked around as soon as I got out into the hall.
		MN (To himself) - Everyone else's doors were closed. There was no sign of life.
		MN - Good. There's nobody here...
		MN (To himself) - Making sure nobody was around to spot me, I rushed into Sayaka's room.
		[Enter Sayaka's Room]
		MN (To himself) - So this is Sayaka's room... It really doesn't look any different from mine.
		MN - It smells nice, though...
		
		{Bed}
		MN (To himself) - The bed itself looks exactly the same, but...
		MN (To himself) - ...knowing Sayaka's slept on it makes me look forward to trying it out for myself.
		[1 Monocoin]
		
		{Shower Door}
		MN (To himself) - If I remember right, all the girls' private bathrooms have locks on them.
		MN (To himself) - I'm a little reluctant to go in...
		
		{Trashcan}
		MN (To himself) - It's kind of weird to dig through other people's trash, but I couldn't help taking a quick peek...
		MN (To himself) - That's...!
		MN (To himself) - There wasn't any doubt about it - it was the DVD with her name on it that we'd found in the A/V room.
		MN - That reminds me... I never did get a chance to find out what was in her video.
		MN (To himself) - But it's probably best if I wait until she brings it up again.
		
		{Drawer}
		MN (To himself) - My room came with a toolkit, but Sayaka has a sewing kit. Just like the note said...
		MN (To himself) - And next to it is... the map of the body's vital organs.
		
		{After investigating the above}
		MN - I don't think Sayaka would like me snooping around too much...
		MN - I should probably go to bed soon.
		MN (To himself) - As I lowered myself onto Sayaka's bed, a pleasant fragrance enveloped me.
		MN (To himself) - Sayaka's... scent...
		MN (To himself) - Maybe it'll bring me some sweet dreams.
		[Fade to black]
		MN (To himself) - Feeling a little better than before, I feel asleep...
		
(Monokuma Theatre)
MK - Imagine you're all in a big spaceship, in the middle of an intergalactic adventure.
MK - You've heard of Noah's Ark, right? We're sort of like that. We've set sail and left Earth behind!
MK - Here you don't have to worry about crazy neighbours, corrupt cops, drunk drivers, or pyromaniacs!
MK - You don't have to worry about the ozone layer, or asthma-inducing air pollution!
MK - And of course, you don't have to stress about studying for finals or practicing for the big game! But...
MK - But even our divine world of freedom has a few rules.
MK - After all, freedom can only exisst *because* of rules.
MK - If you're really dead set on returning to that tiny piece of dog poop you call Earth...
MK - ...please do your best to follow the rules. I hope I've made myself perfectly clear.
MK - So then, let's everyone do our best to follow these new guidelines and live happily ever after together!

*Ding dong, bing bong*
(Morning Announcement)
MN (To himself) - I sat up, still half asleep, and rubbed my eyes. Slowly, I pulled myself out of bed.
MN (To himself) - ...I remembered I was in Sayaka's room.
MN - I just remembered, I promised to eat breakfast with everyone else.
MN - I'd better get going.
[Fade to black]
MN (To himself) - I left Sayaka's room and made my way toward the dining hall.
[Fade to dining hall]
MN (To himself) - A few people had already gathered at the dining hall by the time I got there.
KI - Hello Makoto, and good morning! Can you believe it? I was the very first one this morning!
CF - Ehehe... good morning.
AA - Mornin'!
SO - I suppose I'm early...
MN (To himself) - I figured everyone who had arrived on time could be considered model high schoolers.
MN (To himself) - And the ones who showed up a little late...
[Mondo, Junko and Hifumi enter]
MO - Yo.
JE - Sorry I'm late! My make-up just would NOT cooperate this morning!
HY - My apologies, ladies and gentlemen. My morning, ah, duty took a little longer than usual...
MN (To himself) - ...were the types with a more relaxed sense of time. Most high schoolers fall into this category.
MN (To himself) - And finally, the ones who kept everyone waiting forever...
[Kyoko, Celeste, Leon, Toko and Yasuhiro enter]
KK - ...I suppose I'm late.
CL - Good morning, everyone.
LK - My bad, guys! Slept right through my alarm!
TF - Wh-What? Is it s-so awful to be l-late?
YH - I didn't oversleep, just so you know. Nope, got lost! I blame the Bermuda Triangle...
MN (To himself) - ...don't care about time or other people in general. They're the kind to move at their own pace.
MN (To himself) - But regardless, everyone had arrived.
MN (To himself) - At least, that's how it was supposed to go...
KI - Wait, aren't we still missing some people?
AA - Yeah, Sakura and Byakuya aren't here yet.
MN (To himself) - I don't know about Byakuya, but...
MN (To himself) - ...I would definitely put Sayaka in the "model high schooler" category.
MN (To himself) - So for her to be so late...
BT - ...What's going on? Did something happen?
MO - Hey man! Have you seen Sayaka?
BT - Why would I have? I just came straight from my room to here.
HY - Did she forget about our breakfast promise...?
KK - I got the sense she always has her stuff together...
MN (To himself) - Listening to everyone talk like that, a small, dark speck of unease rose up inside of me.
MN (To himself) - And that speck started to grow quickly...
MN - I-I need to go...
MN - I have to check on her!
MN (To himself) - The words had barely left my lips before i flew out into the all.
[Fade to black]
MN (To himself) - Where I headed first was...
MN (To himself) - ...my room, where I'd let Sayaka stay for a single night.
MN (To himself) - Where she was supposed to be safe...
MN (To himself) - But over the course of that one night...
[Enter Naegi's Room. Room is different than before, scratch marks everywhere, table flipped over, shower door busted in.]
MN (To himself) - ...the room had been completely transformed.
MN - Wh-What the hell!?

{Key}
MN (To himself) - There's a keychain on the ground... It has my name on it, so this must be my room key.
MN (To himself) - I gave it to Sayaka when we traded rooms...

{Golden Sword}
MN (To himself) - This is... the replica sword I brought back for self-defence.
MN (To himself) - It's been taken out of its sheath...
MN (To himself) - More importantly, where's Sayaka!?

{Scratch Marks}
MN (To himself) - There are slashes and gouges on the walls and the floor.
MN (To himself) - More importantly, where's Sayaka!?

{Shower Door}
MN (To himself) - I'd better check the bathroom.
[Fade to black]
MN (To himself) - Let's...
MN (To himself) - ...take...a...look...
MN (To himself) - ...in...side...
MN (To himself) - ... ... ...
[Fade to picture of Sayaka in the shower, sitting down, blood strewn everywhere, knife sticking out of her stomach]
MN (To himself) - It took me a second to realise that I was screaming.
MN (To himself) - What I saw dug its way through my eyes and buried itself in my brain.
MN (To himself) - And then...
MN (To himself) - And then...
MN (To himself) - ...
MN (To himself) - ... ... ...
MN (To himself) - ...everything went black.
[Fade to black]

(Chapter 01)
[To Survive]
[Deadly Life]
(01D)

MN (To himself) - When I opened my eyes, I found myself staring at a huge ceiling.
MN (To himself) - It was a ceiling I remembered seeing before.
MN (To himself) - And when I sat up, I saw someone looking at me.
MN (To himself) - Again, it was someone I'd seen before.
[Fades to the gym]
MN - ...
AA - Ah! You're awake! Finally! Are you okay?
MO - Now's no time for sleeping. Get your ass up!
MN - Huh...?
YH - You were unconscious, dude. I had to carry you back here.
SO - It's no surprise, considering what happened.
MN - What... happened?
[Flashes to show the crime scene for a second]
MN - Gh-! Grraaah!
AA - H-Hey, are you okay!?
MN - So it wasn't a dream?
MN - What I saw...
MN - It was real...?
BT - That's right. It really did happen.
BT - Sayaka... is dead.
MN - ...!
MN (To himself) - A deep, dark despair worked its way through my body, and then exploded out of me.
MN (To himself) - I shot up and took off running.
BT - Hey, where do you think you're going?
MN - I have to see for myself! I have to see if Sayaka is-! If Sayaka is...!
BT - You can check once, twice, a thousand times. Sayaka is completely and irrevocably dead.
MN - No! I have to see for myself!
MO - Listen to us, man! Whaddya think's gonna happen if you go out there?
MN - Well what good is it gonna do just sitting around here!?
MN - I mean, why are we all hanging out in the gym at a time like this!?
MN - Our friend... Sayaka... she's...
MN - She's dead!
MN (To himself) - Dead... When I said that, it finally hit me.
[Flash to Sayaka's corpse at the crime scene]
MN (To himself) - I realised she really was gone...
[Flashes back to the gym]
KK - None of us want to be here right now, either.
MN - Then... why?
TF - Sh-Shouldn't it be obvious? Monok-kuma... he told us all to c-come here...
KI - Well, hold on! Don't talk like that. We all protested it!
KI - I mean, we remember the terrible price Sayaka had to pay...
KI - B-But...!
KK - I'm the one who convinced them to come. Right now, we need to do whatever he says.
KK - We're his prisoners, right? It's not a good idea to defy him without reason.
KK - We don't need to make any more sacrifices than we already have...
MN - ...
MN - Why should we listen to anything he has to say?
MN - It's obvious he's the one who killed Sayaka!
[Monokuma pops up]
MK - I would never do that! If you can believe anything, you can believe that!
LK - He's here again...
MK - Unless someone violates a school regulation, I absolutely will not interfere.
MK - I can promise you, I won't do anything that goes against the purpose of your school life here.
MK - I'm famous at safari parks throughout the world for following the "Bear-Times-One" rule!
CF - Then... who did it? Who killed her?
MK - You already know the answer!
MK - The one who killed her is... one of you!
MN (To himself) - Nobody had a reply for that.
MN (To himself) - One of us... killed Sayaka?
MN (To himself) - Don't be stupid. That's...
MK - Hmm? What's the matter? You guys all look like you're about to see a dove get shot with a Gatling gun!
MK - DOn't you remember what I told you when this all began?
MK - One of you decided to kill Sayaka so that you could graduate!
MK - Someone's just following the rules. There's nothing wrong with that!
HY - Y-You're lying... right?
MN - Of course he's lying! I'm telling you, he killed her!
MK - Nope, sorry. One of you is now a bona fide killer.
MK - If they wanted to, the one who did it could testify to that little fact.
MN - What...?
MN (To himself) - Without thinking, I looked around at everyone.
MN (To himself) - They all had the same look on their faces...
MN (To himself) - Everyone looked at each other with a combination of fear, suspicion, and confusion.
CF - A-Are you serious...?
KI - Someone... Someone killed someone!
CL - It is amazing what some people are capable of.
MO - Hey, hold on! Don't just assume he's telling the truth!
BT - That's enough.
BT - Before we do anything else, I'd like to confirm something with the stuffed animal here.
BT - If one of us really did kill her, that person gets to graduate from the school, right?
MK - ...Huh?
BT - Don't play dumb! That's what you said, isn't it!? If you kill someone, you get to leave!
MK - Puhuhu...
MK - Puhuhu! Poohohoho!
MK - Bwaaahahahaha!
LK - Why are you laughing!?
MK - Puhu... it's cuz...
MK - Nave... You're just so nave.
MK - You think it's really that easy? You can just kill someone and waltz on outta here?
MK - You're super nave! Devilishly nave! HELLISHLY NAVE!
MK - No no no, the real thing has just begun.
MN - The... real thing?
MK - Are you ready!? Allow me to explain the second part of the rule regarding graduation!
MK - Just like I explained before, you must kill someone if you want to leave. However...
MK - ...even if you do that, there's still one more part to the agreement you have to uphold, remember?
CL - You are referring to rule number six of the school regulations...
[Fade to Regulation 6]
CL - If you are the "blackened" that committed the murder, you can't be found out by the other students.
CL - That is what you are talking about, is it not?
[Fades back to the gym]
MK - Bingo! It's not enough to just kill someone. You have to actually get away with it!
MK - Which naturally means you need a system in place to assess whether or not it's been gotten away with!
MK - So, a certain amount of time after a murder has taken place, a class trial will begin!
MN (To himself) - Class... trial?
MK - Yup! It'll begin a few hours after the murder!
MK - Everyone will gather together, including the blackened who committed the murder.
MK - And they and the spotless students will all engage in one big debate showdown!
[Fade to Class Trial photo]
MK - During the trial, you'll have to present your arguments about who you think the blackened is.
MK - And once everything comes to an end, the outcome will be decided by popular vote!
MK - If the answer you've arrived at is correct...
MK - ...only the one that disturbed your peace will be punished. The rest may continue their communal life.
MK - However... if you choose poorly...
MK - ...then the one who got away with murder will survive, and the rest of you will receive your punishment.
MK - Which of course means your school life will come to an end!
MK - As far as class trial rules go... that's all there is to it!
[Fades back to gym]
HY - So, um... what exactly is this "punishment" you keep talking about...?
MN - Oh! Well, to put it simply...
MN - It's execution!
HY - E-Execution!?
CF - And by execution, you mean...
[Fades to closeup of Monokuma's Face]
MK - Execution is... execution! Ex-e-cution!
MK - Electric chair, bzzt bzzt! Poison gas, cough cough! Torn apart like a paper plane in a hurricane!
[Fades back to the gym]
KI - S-So, to make sure I understand...
KI - If we get the culprit right, then only they die. But if we get it wrong...
KI - ...all the rest of us get... executed?
MK - What a smart little chimpanzee you are! Look at you, implying you didn't do it without actually saying it!
MK - So it's basically what the outside world calls a "lay judge" system, or an inquisition type thing!
MK - Which means you'll be deciding who you think the killer is.
MK - But judge carefully, because all your lives are on the line!
MK - Okay, let me just add the rule I just described to your handbook. Make sure to keep it in mind!
Narrator - The new rule has been added to the Regulations menu.
JE - W-Wait, hold on a second!
JE - You're freaking insane, you know that!?
MK - Hmm?
JE - A class trial? What the hell is that!?
JE - I don't want anything to do with it!
MK - Why not?
JE - Whaddya mean why not!?
JE - Why do I have to waste my time trying to figure out who murdered someone!?
MK - What!? Are you saying you're not gonna participate in the trial!? Only punishment awaits such blasphemy!
JE - What? Punishment!?
MK - I might... I dunno, throw you in a deep, dark, scary prison or something!
JE - Shut the hell up! Say whatever you want, I'm not gonna be part of this!
MK - Don't be so selfish!
JE - You're the one being selfish! Kill whoever you want, it's got nothing to do with me!
MK - The evil standing before me... I'm trembling with fear...!
MK - But I won't give in to such evil! It's my style to stick it out and resist till the very end...!
MK - If you really wanna get out of here...
MK - ...you'll have to go through me first!
MN (To himself) - As he said that, he came charging at us. Although it was more of a waddle...
MN (To himself) - But then...
[Flash to picture of Junko standing on top of Monokuma]
MK - Gyumeh!
JE - Are you enjoying yourself now?
MK - Are you?
JE - Huh?
MK - Violence against Headmaster Monokuma is not allowed. You've violated a school regulation...
MK - I invoke the mighty summon spell! Help! To me, godly spear Gungnir!
[Flash to white, as spears stab through Junko, and pink blood splatters across the screen]
[Flashes to picture of Junko with several spears stabbed through her, as she twitches]
JE - ...
JE - Wh...?
JE - H-Huh?
JE - This wasn't... supposed to...
JE - Why... me...?
MN (To himself) - Suddenly, right at the end, her eyes shot wide open.
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - And just like that... she never moved again.
[Fade back to the gym]
AA - Wh-What the...?
CF - I don't...
LK - Th-This can't be real.
HY - NO WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAYYY!
MK - Now I am painfully aware of the great power and meaning of a promise...
MK - I really wanted to keep a corpse from popping up for no good reason, ya know?
MK - But I guess you all needed to be taught a lesson after all. Ahh, what an amazing promise!
MK - But now you guys understand, right?
[Fade to Monokuma's Head]
MK - Now you see just how serious I am...
MK - Defy me and you get shot full of holes, exploded, buried alive, disintegrated... et cetera.
MK - So if you don't want that to happen to you, you'd best obey those school regulations
[Fade back to the gym]
MN (To himself) - Junko's body had been impaled with a bunch of spears...
MN (To himself) - An unbelievable amount of blood started pouring out of her body.
MN (To himself) - It was the first time I'd ever seen... the moment someone's life came to an end.
MN (To himself) - Nobody there could deny what they'd seen. Junko, who until just a second ago had been our friend...
MN (To himself) - ...was dead. She'd died. She'd been murdered.
MN (To himself) - In simple terms...
MN (To himself) - ...it was the death of a human being.
MK - It's really not all that shocking.
MK - She just died, that's all. Just went and died.
MK - It's no more remarkable than the inevitable demise of the entire human race.
MK - It's just as natural as the eventual end of the world itself.
MK - This isn't some superhero comic. So it's not like when you die, you didn't *really* die.
MK - This is reality!
KK - ...Why did you have to kill her? Didn't you say you would put her in prison or something?
MK - I changed my mind.
KK - No, you've been wanting to kill this entire time.
MK - Kill this entire time...? Don't be silly, you can't kill time!
MK - Or are you being metaphorical? Are you saying I wanted to waste time this whole time?
MK - Come on, what do you take me for? I'm Monokuma!
MK - Anyway, none of that matters right now.
MK - I have something I'd like to give you to help you in your search for the blackened!
MK - This little file has all the information I've gathered about the death in question. I like to call it...
MK - The Monokuma File!
MK - I mean, naturally you guys aren't experts at this kind of thing, so you can only do so much with a corpse.
MK - So instead, I've gathered up everything I know about the circumstances and cause of death.
MK - What's that? How do I know the cause of death, you ask?
MK - Cuz the surveillance cameras picked up the whole thing! I got to see it all go down!
KK - Wait, so then... you know who killed Sayaka?
MK - Of course I do!
MK - If I didn't, I couldn't possibly pass a fair and accurate judgement during the trial, now could I?
KK - That's a good point. The judge has to be able to make the proper decision. That's... somehow comforting.
MK - Now then, please put your full effort behind your investigation!
MK - After all, you don't have any choice but to give it your best shot!
MK - Seriously, you don't have a choice!
MK - Okay, so we'll meet up for the class trial... in a little while!
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - And with that, Monokuma disappeared once again.
MN (To himself) - He left us stunned and confused...
MN (To himself) - He left us at a total loss.
MN (To himself) - He left us with Junko's dead body growing colder right in front of us.
[Fades back to the gym]
MN (To himself) - And for who knows how long...
MN (To himself) - ...nobody said a word.
MN (To himself) - The fact that Sayaka and Junko were dead was a huge shock, of course.
MN (To himself) - But there was more to it than that...
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - It was also the idea that one of us had actually murdered someone...
[Fades back to the gym]
MN (To himself) - ...and that if we didn't find out who it was, we would all die here.
MN (To himself) - We'd found ourselves in a situation where we couldn't help but look at each other with open suspicion.
MN (To himself) - It was the worst situation imaginable.
MN (To himself) - And yet, even in such a perversely terrible situation...
MN (To himself) - ...she didn't show the slightest hint that it had gotten to her.
KK - Now's no time to wallow in your depression.
KK - The worst thing we can do right now is to lose all faith in each other.
KK - That would lead to the same disastrous result as having *total* faith in everyone else.
LK - Huh...?
KK - Cooperation is absolutely key at this point.
KK - Who decide to trust or not trust is, of course, up to you.
CL - Continuing to think about and talk about the deceased certainly isn't going to help anything.
AA - S-Saying stuff like that is just-!
CL - How many times have I told you? Anyone who can't adapt... will die.
CL - Death is the only thing awaiting those who are unable or unwilling to adapt.
CL - If that happens, you have only yourself to blame.
AA - What an awful thing to say! Especially after what's happened!
KK - Right now, exposing the killer is the most important thing.
KK - Because if we don't, we're all going to die here.
BT - ...She's right. We need to begin our search right away.
SO - Either way, we can't run away from the situation, so we have no choice but to move forward.
AA - We just hafta do it, I guess...
AA - What other choice do we have?
LK - No way in hell am I letting someone kill me...!
LK - Alright, dammit! Let's do this!
MN (To himself) - We just have to do it...
MN (To himself) - Everyone kept repeating that sentiment.
MN (To himself) - They were using it like a mantra to give themselves strength.
MN (To himself) - But they're right. We just have to do this.
MN (To himself) - No matter how much we don't want to, we have no choice.
MN (To himself) - If that's what it takes to survive, then that's what we have to do!
MN (To himself) - On top of that, there was something I needed to find out...
MN (To himself) - I had to know why Sayaka had to die.
MN (To himself) - Why she had to be the one...
MN (To himself) - I'm terrified to find out, but still... I have to know.
MN (To himself) - Otherwise, I knew I'd never be able to accept her death.
MN (To himself) - Which is why...
MN (To himself) - ...I don't have any choice! I have to do this!
[Gym]
[People: Hifumi Yamada, Toko Fukawa, Yasuhiro Hagakure, Chihiro Fujisaki, Sakura Ogami, Mondo Owada, Kyoko Kirigiri, Aoi Asahina, Celeste, Leon Kuwata, Byakuya Togami, Kiyotaka Ishimaru]
[Objects: Camera, Monitor, Junko's Corpse]

{Hifumi}
HY - ...
MN - Hifumi...?
HY - Consciousness has crashed. Restarting now. Please wait a moment...

{Toko}
TF - ...
MN (To himself) - She must be so shocked she can't even open her mouth to talk...

{Chihiro}
CF - Someone got... Right in front of us, they...
CF - Hnnn...

{Sakura}
SO - We can't run away from the situation, so we have no choice but to move forward.

{Yasuhiro}
YH - H-Huh...?
YH - What's... what's goin' on?

{Mondo}
MO - Is this really happening?
MO - Screw that piece of shit bear...!

{Aoi}
AA - I hate this... but still, we don't have a choice. We have to figure out who did it.
AA - Or else we're all dead...

{Celeste}
CL - Hmm?
CL - Heh heh... so you finally noticed.
LK - Huh? Noticed what?
CL - I was looking through the Monokuma File we received.
CL - And I noticed something very obvious, and very unusual.
CF - Huh? What are you talking about...?
CL - Go ahead, take a look. Notice anything interesting about where Sayaka died?
CL - She died in Makoto's dorm.
AA - Wh-? She's right!
HY - Then, could it be...!?
MN (To himself) - All at once, everyone's gaze turned to me. 
MN - H-Hold on a second! You've got it all wrong!
MN - F-For just one night, I... I traded rooms with her.
MN - I did it because... she was afraid.
TF - Y-You expect us to b-believe that? Just tell the t-truth!
MN (To himself) - The look in everyone's eyes had done a complete 180 from just a few minutes earlier.
MN (To himself) - The feeling of suspicion and fear had returned. In other words...
MN (To himself) - Y-You think *I* did it!?

{Leon}
LK - S-So we're really gonna try and find out who did it...?

{Byakuya}
BT - We need to hurry up and figure out who the culprit is.

{Kiyotaka}
KI - If we find out who did it, then only that person dies. But if we get it wrong...
KI - Then all the rest of us face execution...!
KI - That's what that ridiculous school regulation said, right!? So stupid...!

{Kyoko}
KK - Before we start searching for Sayaka's killer, we need to decide what to do about securing the crime scene.
MN - What do you mean...?
BT - You're thinking of putting someone on guard duty so nobody can disturb the area, aren't you?
BT - After all, if the culprit decides to destroy the evidence, we're pretty much screwed.
MO - In that case, I don't mind doing it.
MO - I don't like havin' to think, anyway.
MO - I'll let you guys figure out who killed that chick.
AA - Okay, then we can let Mondo look after the scene.
BT - Well, no... we can't just leave him there alone.
MO - What? Why the hell not!?
BT - Isn't it obvious? If you were the culprit, what's the first thing you would do?
BT - By volunteering for guard duty, you're in a position to destroy all the evidence you want.
MO - Wh-!? Fuck you!
SO - Fine, then I'll stay there on guard duty as well. That way there's no problem.
HY - 2-player co-op base defence with the two of them... With their stats, they're totally OP!
SO - Since we won't be able to help investigate, we're putting our faith in the rest of you.
AA - I-I'm still pretty freaked out, but... I'll try.

{Junko's Corpse}
MN (To himself) - I gently placed my hand on Junko's lifeless body...
MN (To himself) - I touched her wrist to check for a pulse, like they do in movies and stuff, but...
MN - ...
MN - She... really is dead.
MN (To himself) - There wasn't anything else to say. She was gone...
BT - I don't know why you even bothered to check. After those injuries, and losing that much blood...
BT - Frankly, I'd be shocked if she *did* survive something like that.
YH - H-Huh...?
YH - H-Hold on...
YH - H-H-H-Hold o-on! J-J-Just w-wait a second!
YH - Sh-She's... dead!? Then that means...!
YH - That means everything that's happened so far is real!? It's not a joke or whatever!? It's really real!?
YH - Hell no! S-Someone save me! Let me outta here!
YH - SOMEBODY HELP ME!!!
TF - You're j-just now accepting that...?
KK - Are we all done talking?
KK - We need to begin our investigation soon. At this point, we should split up.
KK - We need to get to the bottom of this and found out who killed Sayaka.
KK - We'll have to collect clues to form a foundation, then construct an argument to come to a final decision.
KK - If we get this wrong...
KK - Well, do I really have to say any more?
HY - I'd rather you didn't, no...
KK - Everyone pray for good luck.
MN (To himself) - With that, Kyoko hurried out of the gym.
BT - I'll be going, too.
MN (To himself) - And just like Kyoko, he was gone before we realised it...
MO - Oh yeah, I'm on guard duty, huh? I'd better head to the scene of the crime!
SO - Ah, that's right.
MO - ...Lemme just say this right now!
MO - If whatever son of a bitch did this is here right now, and they're thinking of destroying that evidence.
MO - They'd better not let me find 'em! I'll skip the trial and cave their goddamn skull in myself!
MO - I'm serious! I will fuck them up!
MN (To himself) - Letting his deadly words hang in the air, he and Sakura ran off.
AA - But... I mean, we're not detectives or anything, y'know? And we're gonna investigate a murder?
AA - How do we even do something like that?
TF - We don't r-really have to do anything in p-particular. W-We already know who k-killed Sayaka...
MN - What are you implying...?
TF - It was y-you.
MN - I'm telling you, it wasn't me!
TF - D-Don't come any c-closer! Are you g-gonna kill me next!?
AA - W-Well, I guess it wouldn't hurt to give it a shot. It's not for sure that Makoto's guilty yet.
HY - That's true. We may as well at least check just to check.
TF - Even if I w-wanted to, I c-couldn't help inv-vestigate...
LK - Wait, why not?
TF - I'm not g-good with... b-b-blood.
TF - All it takes is o-one glimpse and I b-black out.
LK - Well, whatever. I don't think anyone was expecting much from you, anyway.
LK - Alright, I guess I better get going. [Leaves]
MN - W-Wait, don't go yet! You have to hear me out!
MN (To himself) - But it was pointless. Everyone had already left.
MN (To himself) - And their parting looks at me had still been filled with suspicion...
MN - ...
MN (To himself) - Does everyone really think I'm the killer?
MN (To himself) - How did it turn out like this?
MN (To himself) - Seriously, they've got it all wrong...
MN - Why do they have to suspect me!?
MN (To himself) - I have to do something...
MN (To himself) - Otherwise, everyone will...
[Flashback to Monokuma's Head]
[MK - Execution is... execution. Ex-e-cution!]
[MK - Electric chair, bzzt bzzt! Poison gas, cough cough! Torn apart like a paper plane in a hurricane!]
[Flash back to the gym]
MN (To himself) - I can't let that happen...
MN (To himself) - I can't let things turn out the way Monokuma wants!
MN (To himself) - All I have to do is find out who really did it...
MN (To himself) - Who really killed Sayaka...!
[Investigate]
MN (To himself) - I guess I should look through the Monokuma File we got before...
MN (To himself) - "The victim was Sayaka Maizono. The time of death is estimated to be around 1:30 a.m."
MN (To himself) - "The body was discovered in Makoto's room, in the dormitory."
MN (To himself) - "All evidence suggests that the death took place in the bathroom."
MN (To himself) - "The cause of death was a stab wound to the abdomen. There was also an injury to her right wrist."
MN (To himself) - "Specifically, the wrist appears to have suffered a fracture."
MN (To himself) - We have no choice but to push forward if we want to find out what happened...
MN - Somehow, I have to find out the truth.
MN - So that we can all survive...
MN - And for Sayaka...
MN - I have to find out how she was killed!
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Monokuma File #1]
Narrator - "Monokuma File #1" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook

{Upon exit to the hallway}
MN (To himself) - First of all, I should head to the scene of the crime - my room.
MN (To himself) - We won't make any progress without investigating there.
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - So I headed to my room, where Sayaka's corpse still remained.
[Fades to Makoto's Room]
MN (To himself) - I'd better examine the state of my room a little closer.
MN (To himself) - That might reveal something new...

[Makoto's Room]
[Objects: Golden Sword, Makoto's Room Key, Sword Sheath, Scratches, Open Bathroom Door]
[People: Sakura Ogami, Mondo Owada, Kyoko Kirigiri]

{Golden Sword}
MN (To himself) - This is... the replica sword I brought back for self-defence.
MN (To himself) - Does this mean... it was used in the attack somehow?
MN (To himself) - And plus...
MN (To himself) - It's been taken out of its sheath...
MN (To himself) - I hadn't actually looked at the blade itself till now. I shouldn't be surprised it's coated in gold, too.
MN - On top of that...
MN (To himself) - Some of the gold coating has come off of parts of the blade, and the handle.
MN (To himself) - Yeah, the handle especially is missing a lot of its coating...
MN (To himself) - I remember the coating sticks to you even if you just touch it a little bit.
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Replica Sword]
Narrator - "Replica Sword" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

{Makoto's Room Key}
MN (To himself) - There's a key on the ground... It has my name on it, so this must be my room key.
MN (To himself) - If I remember correctly...
[Flashback to Sayaka in Makoto's Room]
[SM - Ah, that's right. We'll have to trade keys.]
[Flash back to the room]
MN (To himself) - When we switched rooms, we switched keys, too.
MN (To himself) - So Sayaka would have had the key here in my room the entire time.
MN - But wait... If that's true, then...
MN - ...how did the killer get into the room in the first place?
MN (To himself) - Could Sayaka have forgotten to lock the door?
MN (To himself) - No, that seems impossible...
[Flashback to Sayaka in Makoto's Room]
[MN - The same goes for you, Sayaka. No matter who it is, don't open your door for anyone.]
[SM - Even if I'm sure it's you, I absolutely won't open it. Otherwise, what's the point of even switching?]
[Flashes back to the room]
MN (To himself) - After saying that, there's no way she would have forgotten to lock it, or opened it for any reason.
MN - Well... maybe she dropped the key somewhere, and someone else grabbed it or something.
MN (To himself) - No, that's not possible either...
MN (To himself) - Sayaka was in here when we switched rooms.
MN (To himself) - And with how scared she was, she wouldn't have gone walking around. So she couldn't have dropped it...
MN (To himself) - So... how did the killer...?
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Switching Rooms]
Narrator - "Switching Rooms" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

{Sword Sheath}
MN (To himself) - This is... the replica sword I brought back for self-defence.
MN (To himself) - Does this mean... it was used in the attack somehow?
MN (To himself) - And plus... The sword's been taken out, so it's just the sheath, but...
MN - Huh?
MN (To himself) - There's some scratches on the sheath. They must've been made with something sharp...
MN - But... how'd the sheath get scratched up in the first place?
MN (To himself) - Even if someone used the sword during the struggle, it doesn't make sense for the sheath to be damaged...
MN (To himself) - I mean, if you're gonna attack someone with a sword, the first thing you'd do is unsheathe it.
MN (To himself) - A heavy sheath like this would only get in the way. It could just slide off in the middle of the fight.
MN (To himself) - So... why are there scratches on the sheath?
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Replica Sword Sheath]
Narrator - "Replica Sword Sheath" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

{Scratches}
MN (To himself) - There are scratches and gouges on my walls and bed.
MN - Is that... evidence of a struggle?

{After investigating all new objects}
MN (To himself) - It looks like there must have been some kind of fight in my room...
MN - Dammit...! I was right there in the other room! If only I'd heard something!
SO - That would not have been possible.
MN - Huh...?
SO - Don't you remember? All of our rooms are completely soundproof.
SO - So something could happen in the room right next to you, and there's no way you could know.
SO - Perhaps this was another of Monokuma's strategies, creating an ideal setting for murder...
MN - ..
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Evidence of a struggle]
Narrator - "Evidence of a Struggle" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

{Lint Roller}
MN (To himself) - Huh? Looking at the lint roller... it looks like there's way less than there was before.
MN (To himself) - Did Sayaka see how dirty my room was and decide to clean up a little...?

{Drawer}
MN (To himself) - The toolkit is still inside the drawer. I don't see any evidence that it's been used at all.
MN - Which makes sense, I guess. I mean, it's mine, and I haven't had any reason to open it.
MN - I can't even imagine a situation where I'd need a toolkit like this...
MO - Yeah, seriously!
MN - Oh, Mondo...
MO - We ain't exactly in the mood to be buildin' fuckin' furniture, right?
MN - So you haven't used yours either, then?
MO - Not just me. Nobody's busted theirs out yet, far as I know.
MO - Actually, we were talkin' about it yesterday.
MO - None of the guys have opened their toolkits yet. Cuz like, why the hell would we?
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Toolkit]
Narrator - "Toolkit" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

{Mondo}
MO - Ya know, I realised something while I was on guard duty...
MO - The killer could've already destroyed some evidence, right? Before anyone found the body, I mean.
MO - There's a trash room here in the dorms, right? They coulda tossed some stuff in there...
MN - Y-Yeah, that's definitely possible.
MO - That dirty bastard...!
MO - Anyone who raises their hand to a woman is scum that deserves death. That's what my brother taught me.
MO - So if I ever find the son of a bitch that did this, I'm gonna pound his goddamn face in.
MN - B-But... what if it was a girl that did it?
MO - ...
MO - That'll all get sorted out when the time comes.

{Sakura}
MN - Sakura... do *you* think I'm guilty, too?
SO - I try not to make assumptions like that. I simply don't know whether or not you did this.
SO - Whatever decision the rest of you come up with, I will follow your lead.
MN - I see...

{Kyoko}
MN - Hey, Kyoko...
MN (To himself) - I quietly called her name while she was investigating the area.
MN (To himself) - But...
[Shows picture of Kyoko on the floor, kneeling, while Makoto stands]
MN - What are you doing...?
KK - Isn't it obvious?
MN - N-No, not really...
KK - I'm searching.
MN - Searching...?
MN (To himself) - She was down on her knees, carefully inspecting every inch of my room.
MN - Did you lose a contact or something?
KK - ...
MN (To himself) - I dunno what she's doing exactly, but... she seems to be concentrating pretty hard on it.
[Fades back to the room]
MN (To himself) - But a few seconds later, she suddenly stood up straight and said...
KK - Are you a clean freak?
MN - Huh? N-No, I don't think so. But what...?
MN (To himself) - Nodding, she glanced around my room one more time.
KK - Interesting...
MN (To himself) - What's interesting...?
KK - Just as I suspected, there's something [very unusual] about your room.
	[very unusual]
		MN - Unusual? What do you mean?
		KK - I've searched your floor from one corner to another...
		KK - ...and I didn't find one single strand of hair.
		MN - Really...?
		KK - Not one hair fromt he victim, and not one hair from you, even though you've been living in here.
		MN - You know,now that you mention it... I noticed something while I was looking around before.
		MN - It looked like the lint roller in my room had been used, but I never touched it.
		MN - Could someone have used it to...?
		KK - Very interesting...
		KK - Your room didn't have a single hair in it, and someone used your lint roller without your knowledge.
		KK - In other words... someone other than you came in and scrubbed your room clean.
		MN - Was it... Sayaka? Or the killer?
		KK - That's the question, isn't it?
		[Obtained Truth Bullet: Makoto's Room Cleanliness]
		Narrator - "Makoto's Room Cleanliness" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.
		
{Bathroom Door: After talking to everyone and looking at everything}
MN (To himself) - The bathroom...
MN (To himself) - And on the other side of this door...
[Flash to inverted picture of Sayaka's Corpse]
MN - ...
MN (To himself) - No... I can't let it get to me...!
MN (To himself) - I can't afford to freeze up now!
MN (To himself) - Forcing myself to push my panic down, I stepped into the bathroom.
[Enter the bathroom]
MN (To himself) - Looking at her made it painfully clear it wasn't a dream, or an illusion.
MN (To himself) - She had lost everything that made her "her"...
MN - Sayaka...
MN (To himself) - All at once I was overcome with dizziness, nausea, the urge to burst into tears...
MN (To himself) - But I can't... I can't hesitate now...
MN (To himself) - Why...? Why did Sayaka have to die?
MN (To himself) - I have to uncover the truth...
MN (To himself) - I have to find out what happened!
MN (To himself) - I wanted to give up, I wanted to collapse. But that thought held me up and supported me.

[Bathroom]
[Objects: Sayaka's Corpse, '37']

{'37'}
MN (To himself) - I looked past Sayaka to the wall behind her.
MN (To himself) - And there I saw...
MN - Wh-!?
MN (To himself) - Written in blood were the numbers 11037.
MN (To himself) - Did... Sayaka do this?

{Sayaka's Corpse}
MN (To himself) - I told myself I simply couldn't face what I saw, but...
MN - But now's no time to think like that!
MN (To himself) - I pulled out the Monokuma File to verify what it said about her body.
MN - Some sort of sharp object has been thrust into her stomach. That must've been the killing blow...
MN - But whatever they used to kill her... Where'd they get it?
MN - That's definitely something I should look into later...
MN - Also according to the Monokuma File, Sayaka's right wrist is broken.
MN (To himself) - Her wrist does look swollen and bloody, that's for sure.
MN (To himself) - But... there's something sorta glittery there on her wrist, too.
MN - Right there, where her wrist is all swollen... there's something glittery.
MN - That definitely concerns me...
MN (To himself) - Another thing that concerns me is...
MN (To himself) - Huh? There's some blood on her left index finger, but that's it.
MN (To himself) - The palms of both her hands are totally spotless, so how come only her left finger...?
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Sayaka's Wrist]
Narrator - "Sayaka's Wrist" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.
MN (To himself) - The stab wound in her stomach is what killed her, so when she broke her wrist...
MN (To himself) - That must have happened earlier on.
MN (To himself) - I mean, how would her wrist get broken after she'd already been killed?
MN (To himself) - So it's very possible she broke her wrist during the struggle...
MN (To himself) - The killer attacked Sayaka in the main room, which is when her wrist got broken...
MN (To himself) - After that, the killer cornered her in the bathroom...
MN (To himself) - ...where they inflicted the deadly wound.
MN - ...

{Upon returning to Makoto's Room}
KK - It looks like you found it, right Makoto?
KK - The [bloody numbers]... That's most likely Sayaka's [dying message].
	[bloody numbers]
		MN - I've never seen something written in blood before...
		MN - It really was her final message...
		MN - It's as if she wrote it with life itself.
		KK - ...Do you often talk like an aspiring poet?
		MN - But the numbers she wrote... What do they mean?
		MN - 11037... I have no idea what that could possibly mean.
		KK - The way she wrote the numbers makes me think she wanted to use her body to block them.
		KK - If she wrote them in that location, while she was sitting the way we found her...
		KK - ...it means she must have wrote them by turning only her hand toward the wall.
		KK - If you were to write something in that position, do you know what the result would be?
		MN - The result...?
		KK - Think about it.
		MN - You're not gonna tell me?
		KK - You need to uncover the mystery of this case yourself...
		KK - Otherwise, the case will end and you'll remain unconvinced.
		MN (To himself) - I have no idea what you're trying to say, but... it's obvious you're not going to tell me.
		[Obtained Truth Bullet: Dying Message]
		Narrator - "Dying Message" has been added to the Truth bullets section of your handbook.
		MN (To himself) - It sounds like Kyoko knows what Sayaka's dying message means.
		MN (To himself) - But honestly, I have no idea...
		MN (To himself) - Oh, I know who I should talk to.
		MN (To himself) - When it comes to numbers, who better to ask than the Ultimate Programmer?
		KK - There's one other thing I wanted to ask you about.
		KK - Do you know how the door to your bathroom got broken?
		MN - Broken...?
		MN - Oh, you mean how it gets stuck?
		KK - Gets stuck?
		MN - Yeah, I guess I'm the only one, but the door doesn't fit in the frame quite right.
		MN - When I first tried to use it, I thought it was just locked.
		MN - But once you learn the trick, it opens no problem.
		[Obtained Truth Bullet: Bathroom Doorframe]
		Narrator - "Bathroom Doorframe" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.
		KK - So the door doesn't quite fit the frame, huh?
		KK - But actually, I'm referring to the broken doorknob.
		MN - Huh? The doorknob?
		KK - You didn't notice? Well, just try closing the bathroom door.
		KK - I'm sure you'll see right away what I'm talking about.
		MN (To himself) - I did what Kyoko said and shut the bathroom door.
		MN - ...Huh?
		MN (To himself) - The doorknob...
	
	
{Bathroom Door, after talking to Kyoko}
MN - Wh-What the heck!?
MN - The doorknob's practically about to fall off!
MN - Why is it like this...?
KK - Someone must have used a screwdriver or something similar to unscrew it.
KK - Whatever it was, it's obvious this was intentional.
MN - What!? It was intentional!? Why would someone want to do that!?
KK - I guess maybe they were trying to get the door unlocked and ended up breaking the whole thing.
MN - But my bathroom doesn't have a lock on it...
MN - Only the girls' bathrooms can lock, right?
MN (To himself) - She stood there for a while, lost in thought.
MN (To himself) - Then, apparently struck with a sudden realisation, she shot a question at me...
KK - I have just one more question for you...
KK - You mentioned earlier that your bathroom door would get stuck, right?
KK - Did you tell anyone about that?
MN - Oh, umm...
MN - Well, I did tell Sayaka about it last night, when we switched rooms.
KK - So what you're saying is, only you and Sayaka knew about it...
KK - Hmm... Interesting...
MN (To himself) - She had the slightest hint of a smirk on her face.
MN (To himself) - I got the sense that she was really starting to get into all this...
KK - Then that clears that up.
MN - Huh? What clears what up? I'm so lost...
KK - Well... see you later.
MN (To himself) - As if forgetting I was ever even there, she suddenly turned and left the room.
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Bathroom Doorknob]
Narrator - "Bathroom Doorknob" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

{After looking at everything}
MN (To himself) - I still don't really understand any of this, but...
MN (To himself) - I've already given my room a good once-over. Maybe I should look around somewhere else...
MN (To himself) - I should start looking into where the murder weapon might have come from. And also...
MN (To himself) - ...I should look into the DVD Sayaka got.
MN (To himself) - With Sayaka dead, I have no choice but to see for myself what was in that video.
MN (To himself) - And on top of that, I'm sure there are some other areas worth checking out, too.
MN (To himself) - Maybe I should see what everyone else thinks. If they'll even talk to me, that is...

[Hallway]
{Makoto's Room}
MN (To himself) - ...Huh? This is definitely my room, but... the nameplate has Sayaka's name on it...

{Sayaka's Room}
MN (To himself) - ...Huh? This *is* Sayaka's room, right? But the nameplate has my name on it...

{After looking at both rooms}
MN - The nameplates on my room and Sayaka's room... were switched!?
MN (To himself) - So all that effort I put into switching rooms without anyone knowing was totally pointless...
MN (To himself) - But... why would anyone do that?
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Dorm Nameplates]
Narrator - "Dorm Nameplates" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

[Sayaka's Room]
{Trash Can}
MN (To himself) - There can only be one thing in the trash can...
MN (To himself) - Yup. The DVD with Sayaka's name on it.
MN - Sayaka got really upset after seeing whatever was in that video.
MN (To himself) - I wonder... what did she see?
MN (To himself) - It might not be directly related to the case, but it might be worth checking out anyway.
MN - I'm sorry, Sayaka... I need to borrow this DVD.

[A/V Room]
{DVD Player}
MN (To himself) - I should be able to use this to see what's on the DVD...
MN (To himself) - The DVD that Sayaka threw in the garbage...
MN (To himself) - I sat down in front of the screen and put the DVD in the player.
MN (To himself) - I pushed play, and the screen was dark for a few seconds. But then...
[Fade to picture of Sayaka with her girl band]
MN (To himself) - ...an image slowly appeared. It looked like some kind of concert.
MN (To himself) - And standing onstage, front and center, was a face I recognised all too well.
MN - Sayaka...
MN (To himself) - She was there, along with the friends she said had been so important to her.
MN (To himself) - She was positively glowing there in front of the crowd. So full of life...
MN (To himself) - Seeing that image made it even harder to accept...
MN (To himself) - Accept that she was... dead.
MN (To himself) - My vision started to blur and darken, and then...
MN (To himself) - That voice I'd come to despise so much began to float out of the speakers.
MK - Sayaka Maizono, the Ultimate Pop Sensation - lead singer for a world-famous all-girl pop band.
MK - For these girls, the glowing spotlight only made them that much more beautiful. But then...
[Screen crackles]
MN (To himself) - Suddenly, the screen went dark.
MN (To himself) - And in the next moment...
MN (To himself) - ...I saw something I could hardly believe.
[Shows image of the stage as seen before, but the screen is mostly red and all the girls are dead. Sayaka is missing]
MN - What the-!?
MN (To himself) - Sayaka had disappeared from the stage, which was now in ruins.
MN (To himself) - But what I noticed even more than that...
MN (To himself) - Was the figures of the other girls, who had all simply... collapsed.
[Screen pans down slightly, Monokuma's face appears on the screen in the background]
MK - This ultra-successful team suddenly fell apart!
MK - None of them will ever perform onstage again. None of them will ever feel the warmth of the spotlight...
MK - For Sayaka, there's simply nowhere for her to return to.
MK - So here's the billion-dollar question - what oh what could have caused the group to go to pieces!?
[Screen goes red]
[FIND OUT AFTER GRADUATION appears onscreen]
[Screen goes black]
MN (To himself) - Without warning, the video cut off.
[Fades back to the A/V Room]
MN - Wh-What the hell...?
MN - That wasn't real, right?
MN (To himself) - They're a super famous pop group. Everyone knows who they are...
MN (To himself) - Is he trying to say he was even able to get to them...?
MN (To himself) - If that really did happen... everyone in the outside world must be going crazy!
MN - What kind of person would take things this far...!?

[Dining Room]
{Aoi}
MN - Hina... Are you investigating the dining hall?
AA - Oh, no. I'm just taking a break. Actually, I've been taking a break since we started...
AA - This is all a first for me, ya know? I don't have the first clue what I should be doing.
MN - I know what you mean...
AA - And I dunno why, but being in the dining hall helps keep me calm.
AA - So I know I shouldn't, but I've just been kinda... hanging around here.
AA - To tell the truth... I was doing the same thing last night, when Sayaka was killed...

[Kitchen]
{Knife Rack}
MN (To himself) - There are all kinds of kitchen knives here, big to small. But...
MN (To himself) - It looks like one of them is missing.
MN (To himself) - Was it missing from the very beginning, or...?
MN (To himself) - I'd better see if anyone here knows more about it.
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Kitchen Knife Set]
Narrator - "Kitchen Knife Set" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

[Dining Room]
{Aoi (After obtaining Kitchen Knife Set truth bullet)}
MN - Hey, so... did you notice that one of the kitchen knives is missing from the dining hall?
AA - Hey, weird huh? I thought it was kinda strange, a knife just suddenly disappearing like that.
MN - Oh, so it wasn't missing from the beginning?
AA - Nope. Last I remember, they were all lined up in a nice, neat row.
MN - So when did you notice one of them had disappeared?
AA - Well, I went to go get some tea from the kitchen last night, and all the knives were still there.
AA - But when I finished my tea and went back into the kitchen to wash my glass...
AA - ...one of the knives was gone.
MN - So you're saying the knife disappeared while you were drinking your tea in the dining hall?
AA - Yeah...
MN (To himself) - In other words, you were right there in the dining hall when someone came and took it.
MN (To himself) - Then you should be able to say for sure...
MN (To himself) - You can tell everyone I didn't come to the dining hall last night...
MN (To himself) - Which proves I didn't take it!
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Aoi's Account]
Narrator - "Aoi's Account" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.
AA - Hey, by the way...
AA - Did you really kill Sayaka?
MN - Wh-What!? Of course not! I would never!
AA - ...
MN - Hina... do you really think I murdered her?
AA - Well... she was killed in your room, right? So I mean...
AA - You guys were supposed to be friends, right? But you still... killed her...
AA - On the other hand, two people becoming good friends, then one killing the other is a classic drama setup.
AA - So when you consider everything together...
AA - ...I honestly have no idea.
MN - ...

[Trash Room]
{Gate}
MN (To himself) - There's a sturdy gate here. No way to get past...
[Monokuma pops up]
MK - It's the end of the line.
MK - The trash room... This is where all the trash in the school eventually winds up.
MN - How do you get this gate open?
MK - No no no! No entry beyond this point! Only the person on cleaning duty is allowed in!
MN - Cleaning duty...?
MK - No no no! No entry beyond this point! Only the person on cleaning duty is allowed in!
MN - Who's on cleaning duty?
MK - No no no! No entry beyond this point! Only the person on cleaning duty is allowed in!
MN (To himself) - This is stupid. It'd be faster to just go around and ask the others.
MK - No no no! No entry beyond this point! Only the person on cleaning duty is allowed in!
[Monokuma disappears]
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Cleaning Duty]
Narrator - "Cleaning Duty" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

[Hallway]
{Hifumi (After obtaining Cleaning Duty truth bullet)}
MN - Umm... I'm looking for whoever's on cleaning duty.
HY - Cleaning duty?
HY - As a matter of fact, that's me. Why do you ask?
HY - It just so happens Monokuma talked to me yesterday and asked me to take care of it.
HY - Without someone on cleaning duty, the school would be flooded with trash in no time.
HY - So I formally applied for the position!
HY - I was gonna start this morning, but after what happened, I haven't had a chance to get started.
MN - And since you're on cleaning duty... you can open the gate in front of the trash room?
HY - Of course!
HY - It's my job to gather up all the garbage and toss it in the trash room.
HY - And to do that, they gave me the key for the trash room gate!
HY - But we're supposed to rotate once a week, so eventually you'll be in charge.
BT - Wait, hold on...
BT - You need a key to get in the trash room? And only the person on cleaning duty has access to the key?
BT - What's the point of going to all that trouble?
BT - Why not just leave the trash room open all the time so we can all throw things out whenever we want?
MN - That does seem more convenient.
BT - Actually...
[Fades to Rule 6]
Narrator - Anyone who kills a fellow student and becomes "blackened" will graduate, unless they are discovered.
[Fades back to hallway]
BT - That must be why.
BT - If anyone could go in and out of the trash room whenever they wanted...
BT - ...then destroying evidence would be easy.
BT - The thrill would disappear, and things would become boring.
MN - B-Boring...!?
LK - Anyway, more important than that...
LK - Hey fatty! Why'd you want the cleaning duty gig, anyway!?
HY - I-I just decided to volunteer for something I knew no one else would wanna do. What's the big deal!?
LK - Liar! I know why you did it...
LK - You wanna dig through all the girls' trash! Looking for... y'know... and poking around at it!
HY - What are you talking about!? All my love is for 2D!
LK - But there's all kinds of trash diggers like that! Maybe you'll get tired of 2D, and then turn to-
HY - I would NEVER get tired of 2D!
HY - After spending a significant amount of time comparing 2D and 3D, I voluntarily chose 2D!
HY - The only thing 3D is good for is to shower love and affection on 2D!
HY - ...Oh, and PVC figures!
LK - How are you not totally embarrassed to say stuff like that!?
BT - If you're so worried about Hifumi's questionable morality, there's a very easy solution.
BT - Whenever a guy has cleaning duty, Sakura can accompany them, from picking up the trash to disposing of it.
HY - Whaaat!?
BT - If you're as innocent as you claim, where's the harm in it?
HY - Kh-! That's not how it's supposed to-!
MN - Anyway, on another topic... Hifumi, since you were on cleaning duty, I have a favour to ask you.
HY - What, so now you suddenly want to join my party? Sorry, but you haven't triggered that flag yet.
HY - I mean, you havne't helped me recover from a past trauma, or save a village, or beat a boss...
MN - No, nothing like that... I was just hoping to get into the trash room and look around.
HY - Oh, okay!
MN - So easy...!
MN (To himself) - So, Hifumi and I headed down to the trash room.
[Warps to the Trash Room]
HY - You'd like me to open the gate, wouldn't you?
HY - Bwehehe... You know, when I look at it, it makes me thing...
HY - They said he killed his wife. He learned how to get by on the inside, but he never stopped dreaming.
HY - Get busy livin' or get busy dyn', he said. So him and Rita, they found themselves a way out...
MN - ...Whatever, please just hurry up!
HY - Okie dokie! Leave it to me!
MN (To himself) - Hifumi pulled a key out of his pocket and used it to flip the switch next to the gate.
MN (To himself) - And then...
[Fades to black]
[Move forward to the incinerator]
HY - However, Mr. Naegi...
HY - Surely you aren't planning to use the trash room to destroy evidence, are you!?
HY - Y-You fiend...! You planned this all along!
MN - N-No!
MN - I just wanted to see if the actual killer had tried to destroy any evidence or not!
HY - But the "actual killer" is YOU, isn't it!? You want to see if you left anything behind!
HY - Wait... Maybe a parallel world...?
MN (To himself) - Whatever, let's just hurry up and keep looking...

[Incinerator Section]
[Objects: Incinerator, Switches, Shards of Broken Glass, Shirt Section]
[People: Hifumi]

{Hifumi}
HY - Mmmhey, Mr. Naegi... you seem a little down.
MN - Huh? Really?
HY - If you need help lifting your spirits, call on me anytime!
HY - I've got all kinds of smut-er, stuff that might help cheer you up! Meh heh... mehehehe!
MN - ...

{Incinerator}
MN (To himself) - This is the incinerator. It's way in the back part of the trash room.
MN (To himself) - It's a good thirty feet from here to the gate...
MN (To himself) - Ah! And it's on right now!
HY - Do you see the green and yellow buttons next to the mouth of the incinerator?
HY - It's a pretty simple setup. You press the green button to get it going, and the yellow button to turn it off.
HY - Sooner or later you'll be on cleaning duty, so make sure you learn this before you leave, okaaaAAAYYY!?!?
HY - Huh!? Someone turned the incinerator on!
HY - Very strange... I'm quite certain it was off last time I was down here.
HY - Perhaps it was the work of a fairy...
MN - Hifumi! Do you realise what you just said!?
HY - Huh? The fairy...?
MN - ...No. You said that last time you were here, the incinerator was off.
HY - Ah, yes. About that there can be no mistake. If I've got one thing going for me, it's my memory!
HY - Yesterday, as soon as I was appointed, I came down to check the place out. It definitely wasn't on then.
HY - I haven't been back to the trash room since then...
HY - And since I'm the only one who has a key to open the gate...
HY - ...it should be impossible for the incinerator to be on. And yet...
MN (To himself) - So that means someone was able to switch on the incinerator without opening the gate...
MN (To himself) - But... how is that possible?
[Obtained Truth Bullet: Incinerator]
Narrator - "Incinerator" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

{Switches}
MN (To himself) - The green button turns it on, and the yellow button turns it off.
MN (To himself) - ...Or so it seems, anyway.

{Shards of Broken Glass}
MN (To himself) - There are shards of broken glass scattered around in front of the incinerator.
MN (To himself) - It looks like it used to be some kind of glass ball, just about big enough to fit in the palm of your hand.
HY - Ngyah! Is that...!?
MN - ...Do you know what this is?
HY - They say if you collect all seven, a dragon will appear and grant you a single wish!
HY - Erm, kidding aside, it's the kind of thing you might see on any big-city street corner.
HY - Gaze into it, and it will show you a glimpse of the future...
HY - Just like that Meena girl who was on that quest to find that one guy!
MN (To himself) - Yeah, I get what you're trying to say. But who did this particular ball belong to...?
MN (To himself) - There's only one person it could be...
MN (To himself) - They should all still be in the gym. I'd better go find out for sure...
[Obtained Truth Bullets: Shattered Crystal Ball]
Narrator - "Shattered Crystal Ball" has been added to the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.

{Shirt Section}
MN - THere's something on the ground in front of the incinerator...
MN - It looks like a burnt piece of... something.
HY - A burnt piece...? Like a hunk? Like a hunk of burning love!?
MN - ...
MN (To himself) - Anyway. This is...
MN (To himself) - ...it looks like a piece of cloth. And the shape...
MN (To himself) - It's part of the sleeve from a button-up shirt!
MN (To himself) - And now that I look at it, that's definitely blood on the cuff! Which means...!
MN - This is all that's left of some of the evidence the killer destroyed...
MN (To himself) - But there are lots of people here with white button-up shirts.
MN (To himself) - This isn't enough by itself to figure out who the killer is...
[Obtained: Burnt Shirt Piece]
Narrator - "Burnt Shirt Piece" has been added to the truth Bullets section of your handbook.

{After investigating all}
HY - This whole thing is quite strange, indeed...
HY - When I was here last, the incinerator was off, and those glass shards and burnt clothes weren't.
HY - What does it all mean, Mr. Naegi!? Will you be confessing soon!?
MN - Why me...?
HY - Everyone already knows you did it! All the mysteries are being solved one by one!
MN (To himself) - It sounds like he's living out one of his comic book fantasies...

[Gym]
{Chihiro (After obtained 'Dying Message')}
MN - Hey, Chihiro. I was hoping I could ask you something.
CF - Oh? What is it?
MN - Before she died, Sayaka left a message.
MN - She wrote out the numbers 11037.
MN - Do you have any idea what these numbers might mean? Like, could they be a code or something...?
CF - Umm...
CF - Sorry, no...
MN (To himself) - Chihiro slowly shook her head.
CF - I-I'm sorry... I just don't know.
MN - Okay. Well, don't worry about it. Thanks anyway for trying.
MN (To himself) - Even she doesn't know...
MN (To himself) - Or... could she maybe know more than she's letting on?
MN (To himself) - ...
MN (To himself) - No, couldn't be...

{Yasuhiro (After obtaining 'Shattered Crystal Ball')}
MN - Hey Hiro, can I ask you something?
YH - Aggh! No no no no no! I gotta get outta here! Gotta get out now! I've had enough! Gotta break free!
MN - Hiro, snap out of it!
YH - Ghh... Hrm?
YH - Huh? Makoto, what are you doing here? What...?
MN - Hey, um... does this look familiar?
YH - Ahhh!
YH - That's my crystal ball!
YH - But... it's all smashed! What the hell...?
YH - I-I only bought it cuz the guy said it was blessed! He said it was unbreakable...!
YH - So... how did it break?
YH - Was it actually just made of glass!? And not crystal!? Did that guy totally dupe me!?
YH - He said it belonged to the pillars of history... Genghis Khan, George Washington, Napoleon...
YH - He said whoever controlled that crystal ball controlled the world! Was that seriously all BS!?
MN - U-Umm... let's put that aside for now.
MN - So you can say without a doubt that this belonged to you?
YH - Yeah, that's mine for sure.
YH - I prolly forgot it in the laundry room last night. Someone musta come by and snatched it.
MN (To himself) - You left it in the laundry room?
MN (To himself) - That means anyone could have found it and taken it...
[Updated Truth Bullet: Shattered Crystal Ball]
Narrator - "Shattered Crystal Ball" has been updated in the Truth Bullets section of your handbook.
MN - Thanks, Hiro. That's all I wanted to know.
YH - S-Sure...
MN - ...
MN - Um, by the way... I'm almost afraid to ask, but how much did you pay for that thing?
YH - Everything I saved up from fortune-telling for two full years.
YH - Came out to be like... a million.
MN - A m-million!?
YH - That's pretty cheap, actually. I mean, considering it gives you the power to control the world...
MN (To himself) - That's just too... too stupid. I can't even feel bad for him...

{After all Truth Bullets have been obtained and updated correctly}
*Ding dong, bing bong*
[Fades to school monitor]
MK - Erm, so ah... I'm getting tired of waiting. What say we just get started, hm?
MK - It's time for the long-awaited...
MK - Class trial!
MK - Now then, allow me to appoint a proper location for the proceedings.
MK - Please go through the red door on the 1st floor of the school!
MK - Puhuhu. See you soon!
[Fades back to the room]
MN - The red door on the 1st floor...
MN - That's where I should go.
MN - ...No, where I *have* to go.
[Fades to black, warp right in front of the door]

[Courtroom Lobby]
[Objects: Monitor, Security Camera, Elevator]
[People: All Living People]
KI - You're late, Makoto! We've all been waiting for you!
TF - Hmph. I bet y-you were afraid you would be discovered as th-the murderer you are...
KI - Let's not jump to conclusions just yet! Save that for the class trial!
KI - There we can all reveal the details of Makoto's crime!
MN (To himself) - So they really are convinced I did it. But...
[Flash to Sayaka's Corpse]
MN (To himself) - I didn't do it. Me and Sayaka both know that all too well...
MN (To himself) - But then, who *is* the killer?
[Flashes back to the room]
MN (To himself) - The one who murdered Sayaka...
MN (To himself) - Is it really one of us?
[Fade to school monitor]
MK - Puhuhu... Is everyone here? Okay then...
MK - Please board the elevator in front of you, which will transport you to the courtroom...
MK - ...where all your fates will be decided.
MK - Puhu. I'll meet you all down there. I'll be waiting...
[Fades back to the room]

{Elevator}
MN (To himself) - I guess I have no choice but to get on this elevator...
SO - Let us begin... [Leaves]
CL - Good idea. [Leaves]
MN - ...
KK - Are you scared?
MN - N-No, scared isn't quite right...
KK - I said it before, but it's up to you to uncover the mysteries surrounding this case yourself.
KK - If you don't, you'll never come to grips with the truth. [Leaves]
MN (To himself) - I need to uncover the truth of Sayaka's death...
MN (To himself) - I didn't need someone else to tell me to do that.
MN - In Sayaka's honor...
MN - I swear I'll find out who the real killer is!
MN (To himself) - As I raised my voice to try and give myself courage...
MN (To himself) - ...I turned, trembling with anticipation, toward the elevator.
MN (To himself) - With each step forward, I could feel my heart starting to race faster and faster.
MN (To himself) - Everyone else was already on the elevator. When I finally stepped on...
MN (To himself) - ...the doors closed, and the elevator started to move.
[Fades to the elevator, with everyone that's still alive on it]
MN (To himself) - The steel box descended with heavy clunking sounds toward the school's basement.
MN - I wonder if this is how a death row inmate feels when his time finally comes...
CL - Rather than that, is it not more like a defendant waiting to receive his judgement?
MN (To himself) - Oblivious to our shared anxiety, the elevator lowered us further and further into the bowels of the school.
[Fades to black]
MK - Nyohoho! You've finally arrived!
[Monokuma pops up]
MK - What do you think? Doesn't it feel just like a real courtroom?
MK - It's like a Hollywood movie set, right!?
MO - Not even close. It's total shit.
MK - Okay, okay, everyone find your assigned seats and sit down!
MK - Hurry up now, hurry up!
[Fades to black]
MN (To himself) - We did what he said and found our seats.
[Shows a vertical picture of everyone in their assigned seats. Starting from Makoto, going clockwise:
	Makoto, Sayaka (Dead), Kiyotaka, Junko (Dead), Sakura,
	Kyoko, Mondo, Aoi, Empty, Yasuhiro, Chihiro, Byakuya,
	Celeste, Leon, Toko, Hifumi]
MN (To himself) - The seats were arranged in a giant circle.
MN (To himself) - It was set up so that everyone could see everyone else.
MN (To himself) - Which also meant it'd be easy for anyone to transfer their tension and unease onto anyone else...
MN (To himself) - The air seemed to grow heavy as we sat there.
[Fades to horizontal picture of the circle, with Byakuya, Celeste and Leon on the far side, and Sakura, Kyoko and Mondo on the close side]
MN (To himself) - And so, the curtain on our first case opened...
MN (To himself) - A deadly judgement...
MN (To himself) - A deadly deception...
MN (To himself) - A deadly betrayal...
[Fades to top up photo of Toko, Hifumi, Makoto and the picture of Sayaka]
MN (To himself) - A deadly riddle, a deadly defence, a deadly faith...
MN (To himself) - A deadly... class trial...!

(Save)
[Chapter 1]
[Pre-Trial Prep]

(01T)

(Court Preparation)
[What's this "class trial" that Monokuma mentioned? Can Makoto sweep away the cloud of suspicion surrounding him, even with a dead body laying in his bathroom? And what about the blackened who's actually responsible for Sayaka's death?]

Truth Bullets:

Monokuma File #1:
	The victim was Sayaka Maizono.
	The time of death is estimated to be around 1:30 a.m.
	The body was discovered in Makoto's room, in the dormitory.
	The death took place in the bathroom.
	The cause of death was a stab would to the abdomen, and her right wrist appears to have been fractured.

Evidence of a Struggle:	
	There are a number of scratches and gouges on the bed and walls in Makoto's room.

Replica Sword:
	Makoto took this from the gym entryway and put it in his room.
	The sword was found out of its sheath on the floor in the middle of the room.
	The sword handle was missing some of the gold coating, as was part of the blade.
	
Replica Sword Sheath:
	Makoto took this from the gym entryway and put in his room.
	The sheath was found some distance from the sword itself, and it shows evidence of being scratched with a sharp object.
	
Switching Rooms:
	On the night of the murder, Makoto and Sayaka traded rooms and room keys.
	When the victim was discovered, Makoto's room key was also discovered in Makoto's room.
	
	Sayaka had originally asked Makoto to switch with her when someone attempted to force their way into her room, and she became frightened.
	
Toolkit:
	This had been placed in Makoto's room before he arrived. 
	It remains unopened, and there is no evidence of it having ever been used.
	
	All the other male students claim that they haven't used theirs, either. But still...
	
Makoto's Room's Cleanliness:
	Not a single hair was found on the floor at the scene of the crime. 
	In addition, the lint roller shows evidence of being used.
	
Sayaka's Wrist:
	Sayaka's right wrist had been fractured, and her wrist was "glittery" at the injury's location.
	
	In addition, her hands appeared to be completely clean, except for the index finger of her left hand, which had some blood on it.
	
Dying Message:
	A series of numbers had been written in blood on Makoto's bathroom wall - 11037.
	
	It is assumed that Sayaka wrote these numbers while leaned up against the wall, as she lay dying.
	
Bathroom Doorframe:
	Makoto's bathroom door was difficult to open, due to it not quite fitting in the doorframe properly.
	
	The only two people who knew the trick to opening it were Makoto, the room's owner, and Sayaka, the victim.
	
Bathroom Doorknob:
	Makoto's bathroom doorknob had been broken - the screws holding it in place had all been partially or completely removed.
	
Dorm Nameplates:
	The nameplates on the doors to Sayaka and Makoto's rooms were apparently switched at some point.
	
Kitchen Knife Set:
	The kitchen in the dining hall has a set of kitchen knives.
	Apparently one of the knives had gone missing.
	
Aoi's Account:
	The knife from the kitchen went missing while Aoi was in the dining hall.
	
	Aoi swears that Makoto did not come to the dining hall at any point while she was there.
	
Trash Duty:
	There's apparently a trash room within the school.
	It's blocked off by a sturdy gate that can only be opened with the trash room key.
	
Incinerator:
	The incinerator can be activated via a switch on the machine.
	Hifumi was on cleaning duty, and he claims that the last time he saw the incinerator, it was off.
	
	However, when Makoto checked it after the incident, the incinerator was, in fact, on.
	
	The distance from the gate to the incinerator is roughly thirty feet.
	
Burnt Shirt Piece
	A piece of burnt clothing was found next to the incinerator in the trash room.
	It is apparently part of a shirt cuff, and it has a noticeable bloodstain on it.
	
Shattered Crystal Ball
	Shards of glass were found next to the incinerator in the trash room.
	
	As it turns out, the glass would have fit comfortably in the palm of a person's hand.
	
	Apparently, Yasuhiro left the ball in the laundry room by accident, so anyone could have come along and taken it.
	