 Hey… 
 Can you hear me…?

Hey, are you alright? 
 …You sure look exhausted.
 I am too, you know. We all are.
 I mean… With all the crazy stuff that happened…
 …………
 …Hey, are you listening?

…………

…What…

…I don’t… understand…

Why am I here…?

What happened?

OK… Don’t panic. First thing’s first. I have to remember…

Keep calm, work my brain, and unravel my tangled memories.

Stop worrying and think! Think, think, think, think, think, think.

There are shards of memory everywhere… but I think I can piece together what happened.

…Yes…

…Come on…

That’s right. I’m…

I… am…

Beautiful Days [Piano Arrange]

That day wasn’t just another regular day for me.

No, it was much more significant than that.

As I approached the day I had anticipated for so long, my heart began to swell with a pride I still can’t put into words.

I was about to join a community I had revered ever since I was a child.
My dreams were about to become reality, and my reality felt like a dream.

“Hope’s Peak Private Academy”…

This is no ordinary school. Nothing about this place is “ordinary”. Not least its importance to me.

You know how a young baseball or soccer fan thinks about their favorite team?
It goes beyond mere support… it borders on worship. Like a religion.

Well, ever since I was young, I’ve held that same kind of reverence for Hope’s Peak Academy.

Hope’s Peak Academy is located on a prime piece of real estate, and has special approval and rights from the government.
The school gathers together high school students from around the country who are top in their respective fields, and prepares them to lead the world into the future - to bear the hopes of all humanity.

When people talk about Hope’s Peak Academy, one particular phrase always comes up:

“Graduating from this school leads to certain success in life”…

I can say with confidence that this is not a joke or an exaggeration.
Many of the top players in every kind of field and profession are graduates of Hope’s Peak.

Because of this reputation, people have come to refer to it as “The Academy of Hope”.

There are two requirements for becoming a Hope’s Peak student…

“One must be a high-school student”
“One must be top in their respective field”

Hope’s Peak Academy doesn’t hold entrance exams, or even accept applications.
You don’t go to them - they come to you. Enrollment is by invitation only.

Then, in accordance with their particular skills…
…Every Hope’s Peak student ends up being called a “Super High-school Level” something or other.

And, at long last, I, too, am able to attend this wonderful school. My heart’s wish had been granted.

To tell you the truth, the circumstances in my case are slightly unusual.
…But that’s a story for another time.

Honestly, I don’t think it’s such a big deal. You’ll find out for yourselves soon enough.

More importantly, let me introduce myself.

Honestly, I’m not so special to warrant a formal introduction, and whenever I’m asked to give one I get terribly embarrassed… 
 But since it’s customary, I thought I’d let you hear it.
 My name is Hajime Hinata.

Our protagonist, Hajime Hinata (日向創 ) is voiced by Minami Takayama. Takayama is best known for playing the young version of Conan Edogawa in Detective Conan/Case Closed (this makes both of the Conan Edogawa voices have roles in the DR universe). She was also Kiki in Studio Ghibli’s Kiki’s Delivery Service, and has played many, many other roles in her 20+ year career.

I have one and only one reason for coming to Hope’s Peak Academy. I revere this school.
 It represents everything I have ever aspired to become.
 Yes, I pretty much worship it.
 My lifelong dream has always been to attend Hope’s Peak Academy, so I, too, could stand proud…

That has always been my one and only ambition…

That has always been my one and only ambition…

Always always always always always alwaysalwaysalwaysalwaysalwaysalwa

Music stops.

ysalwaysalwaysMeMyselfconsciousNonIndividualityembarrassinguniformityjustwhatHopeI

talent▲individualitybrokenPprobably■finallyIalways○DdomyBestmydreamcomestrue~+i*

H…Huh…?
 …What’s going on?

…It’s a door.

There’s a door here.

…But, more importantly, I’d better hurry.
I mean, I should go into this classroom.

…“Should”?

Why? When did I decide…

No! There’s no time for this! If I don’t hurry…

Huh.

Beautiful Ruin

………… 
 …Huh?
 …………
 …Who are you?
 …Eh?
 Um… are you quite alright? Your face appears most pale…
 I… I’m…
 Hey, maybe… Did you also just enroll here?
 …Ah! Are you all…?
 Yep! That’s what it looks like. We’re the new students here.

So these are… my classmates?

Then… I’m inside Hope’s Peak Academy? But that’s…

They’re probably gathering all the new students in this classroom.

We’re being… gathered?

…Oy. How about you at least come into the room?
 Eh? Oh, excuse me!

…Why am I suddenly speaking politely?
They may all be “Super High-school Level”, but they’re also my classmates…

That’s right… First impressions are essential! I must act dignified!

And so, as I tried my best to hide my nervous state behind a blank expression…

…I closed the door behind me, and took an empty seat in the classroom’s back row.

…………

My dignity aside, though… what the hell just happened?

Before I knew what was happening, there was a classroom door in front of me…
It was as if I’d been drawn there by something…

But… how did I come to be outside this classroom?

I can’t remember…

Something… is strange.

Um, can I ask a question…?

…What is it?
 Why did you all gather here in this classroom?
 I don’t remember being told to gather here… Are we having the opening ceremony or something in here?

I was just thinking about discussing that matter with everyone.
 …You were?

You don’t mind, do you? It seems we are all here, so we might as well talk about it.

Eh?! This is everyone?! How d’you figure that, huh?!

There are sixteen desks in this classroom. Now that he’s here, there are sixteen of us.

It doesn’t take a genius to figure it out.

So, what should we talk about?
 Does anyone know why we’ve all been gathered in this classroom?

There’s one thing I want to ask first.
 Does anyone here recall actually coming to this classroom?
 …Eh?!

We all looked at each other’s faces.

Each one wore a startled expression. Not one person raised their hand.

Before I knew what was happening, I found myself here… It seems everyone here is the same.

This is not natural. Your stupid faces tell me that you agree.

That’s… that’s strange, you’re right. If no one here can say how they came to this classroom…

…wait, what do you mean, “stupid faces”?!

As soon as I entered the school I was inexplicably struck dizzy, and then inexplicably found myself outside this classroom.

That was my experience. Was everyone’s the same?
 I…It was just like that for me too…

Eh?! It wasn’t just me?
 Everyone getting dizzy at the same time… that’s kinda suspicious!

I…It’s very unlikely to be a coincidence, isn’t it…?

Which means it isn’t one.

…Eh?

In other words, this strange phenomenon had some kind of a purpose behind it.

What he’s saying makes sense, but…

What purpose is being served by this? And for who?
I don’t like this…

Ku…! We’re skipping ahead here. The dizziness isn’t the only issue.

What else is there?

I mean we should tackle the details before we look at the big picture.
 Before we try to figure out why we’ve been gathered here, we need to figure out why we can’t leave.

Huh? Whadd’ya mean we can’t leave?!

Eh?! N…No way!

He ran up to the door in panic, and pulled on the doorknob with all his strength.

* rattle rattle rattle *

I…It won’ open! Why won’ it open?!

…Eh?! What’s going on?!

Right after we came here, I felt an urge and figured I’d go use the crapper…

But that door wouldn’t budge an inch!

The hell’s goin’ on?!

If I couldn’t open it with all my strength, you guys don’t stand a chance.

Ehhhh? Why won’t it open? Everything’s gone weird!
 S…She’s right! Everything’s weird!
 I mean, when I came in here the door opened easily… It didn’t feel like it locked behind me when I closed it…!

I don’t know the details…

But for now, it seems we need to accept that we’re locked in.

…Locked in?

Re: Despair Syndrome

W…What’s happening…?

I felt my body becoming heavy.

Severe anxiety began pushing down on both my shoulders.

I don’t like this. At all. Somethin’ shady’s goin’ on…

Or maybe… Maybe this is some kind of an “entrance exam”?
 An entrance exam? At Hope’s Peak Academy?

But… I had thought Hope’s Peak Academy beyond such…

Maybe that’s just what they say publicly, and there’s actually a special secret exam once the students enroll…

Music halts

Ah! That’s not it! This isn’t an entwance exam!

…What was that, just now?

Hey, Fatso… Don’t go making baby voices…

I don’t feel like arguing about my body weight right now, but that voice wasn’t coming from me.

…Huh? So, who was it?

Um, it was meee!

WHO IS IT? WHERE ARE YOUUUUUUU?!

…Isn’t it coming from behind that podium?

Behind… the podium…?

Bingo! It seems everyone’s here, so wet’s begin!

Super High-school Level Update #2

Re: Despair-Syndrome

What is that thing…?
 Um… I think it’s a stuffed doll…
 …Thaaat’s wight. I’m a stuffed doll. I’m made of felt.
 My name is “Magical Girl Miwacle ★ Usami”… but you can just call me Usami!
 I’m your teacher, everyone.
 Pweased to meet you!

If you thought getting one elderly voice actress to play a bizarre stuffed toy was tough, here they are doing it again. Usami is voiced by Takako Sasuga, who plays Sazae-san’s son, Tara-chan, in the very very long running animated family sitcom “Sazae-san”. She has been doing it every week from 1969 to this very day, one of the few Sazae-san actors who have never been replaced.

Re: Weekly Shonen Despair Magazine

H…Huh? Am I hallucinating? I…Is everyone else seein’ this?

I can see it too…

Hey, why is that chihuahua talking?!

Eh?! Is that thing a chihuahua?!

Do you know what a bunny wabbit is, everyone?
 It’s a vewwy wuvly animal with fwuffy fwuffy fur.

That’s what I am! I’m a singing, dancing, talking bunny wabbit mascot!

W…Wait a second! Let me put my thoughts in order, please!

Go wight ahead!

Um, you’re with me, guys, right?
 I’ve never heard of such a thing as a singing, dancing, talking stuffed doll…

I…It must be moved by remote control… It’s nothing but a noisy child’s toy…

That kind of movement? From a remote control? This isn’t toy-level technology…

The problem isn’t how this thing is moving. It’s what it seems to be saying.

You know, don’t you. You know what kind of situation we’re in…!

Of course I know! I’m the supervising teacher for this field twip, after all!

Field trip…?

What do you mean, “field trip”?

It means a school event where students go on a twip and perform gwoup activities under the supervision of a teacher!
 W…We weren’t asking for a definition…

Let’s get going! Your fun field twip starts nooow!

…Starts?

Miss Monomi’s Practice Lesson

I highly recommend clicking that music link there.

…What…
 ……What……

I couldn’t trust my own eyes.

Not just my eyes. I couldn’t trust my mind…

I couldn’t trust the world itself.

The classroom broke apart as if it was the set of a play, and then, before our eyes…

…Was a blue sky and white clouds…
…A blue sea and white waves…

…What the hell is this?!

However you approached it, it was abnormal.
Clearly outrageous.
Completely absurd.

And so, thoroughly… wrong.

Wha… wha…

Whaaaaaaaaaaa?!

It’s a trick, right?

W…Where are we?!

W…Why?! How?!

Hey, everyone! Pwease calm down!

Pwease! Pwease! There’s no need for panic! Take a good look around!
 It’s a beauuutiful sea, isn’t it…? Can’t you already feel your soul cleansing?
 Every bad thing is being waaashed awaaay…

Wait. We want a detailed explanation! Where in heavens are we?

Where…? It’s obvious, isn’t it…?

Somewhere! Beyond the sea!

Can’t you see?!

Originally, Usami performs the first line of Ryuuha Hayashi and Takeshi Inoue’s classic government-approved kindergarden song “Umi” (“Sea”) to explain to our cast where they are. It goes, “The sea is wide! The sea is large!”

W…We know we’re by the sea, but… why are we here?!

You know… if you keep shouting like that your thwoat is going to get sore.

But… it’s most strange that there should be an ocean here… We were at the school but a moment ago…

Pweease west assured, that was just our field twip’s beginning!

What’s up with this sudden field trip, huh?! This is all going way too fast!
 S…She’s right…! We all came here because we just got into Hope’s Peak Academy.

Oooh. Hope’s Peak Academy… I see…
 You’re still wowwied abowt Hope’s Peak Academy! In that case…

Pwease forget all abowt it! That’s what this field twip is aaall abowt!
 …Huh?

What do you mean, “forget all about it”, you bastard?!

Oy. Who are you? What are you scheming?

Howawa? I am not scheming anything! I’m doing all of this for you!
 More than anything, I pway that a biiig “hope” grows inside your hearts!

That’s why this island is fwee of danger! So don’t be afwaid, okay?

Island…? Did you say “island”?

Yep! This is a beauuutiful southern island.
 There is nothing to be afwaid of here. There aren’t even any other people. It’s an island made juuust for you.
 A…A desert island?

Don’t tell me… you’re going to make us kill each other on this uninhabited island…?!

Howawa! K…Kiwweachother?!

G…God forbid!
 Violence, hurting other people, and other such wild activities are forbidden on this island!
 “Kiwwing”… even just saying the word out loud…

Kyaa! Scawy!

In that case, what’s the point of this “field trip”? What are you going to make us do?

It’s time for my speech!

Everyone. Pwease stwengthen your bonds of fwiendship as you enjoy your pweasant stay on this island!
 This is the rule of this “Heart-thumping Field Twip”!

Heart-thumping… Field Trip…?

Pwease waise your hope as you enjoy quiet, peeeaceful days where noothing happens, no one gets hurt and no one suffers…
 This is what this wuvly, wuvly “Heart-thumping Field Twip” is all about…

That’s the assignment I’m giving you on this island!
 Wha…!
 What… the hell…?!
 Um, and so…

Beautiful Days [Piano Arrange]

Let our “Heart-thumping Field Twip” begin!!

It goes without saying, but I couldn’t keep up.

There was no way I could keep up.

And then, as if a thick curtain dropped down on me…

…I went blank.

Hey…
 Can you hear me…?

Hey, are you alright?
 …You sure look exhausted.
 I am too, you know. We all are.
 I mean… with all the crazy stuff that happened…
 …………
 …Hey, are you listening?

…………

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

You… are OK, right?
 …I…
 …Just… Leave me alone.
 Oh, I couldn’t possibly leave someone who looks as sick as you alone.
 …………

Golden sand… Blue sea…
Strong, bright sunlight blazing down…

And a gentle sea breeze caressing my skin…

I have no idea what’s going on.
I was supposed to be at Hope’s Peak Academy. So why…

Why am I here?

That… thing said we’re on a southern island, didn’t it?

…Yeah, that’s right.
 …………

What the hell happened? I… have no idea.

That’s the one and only thing I know for sure.

Tutorial posted:
Welcome to Dangan ☆ Island. Allow me to explain our easy control scheme.

You may move the crosshairs shown on your screen by using the analog pad.
Should the crosshairs react to the environment, by all means - push the circle button. It allows you to examine that spot.

Furthermore, the arrow buttons, the L button and the R button make it possible to change your viewpoint.

But that’s not all! Should you press the triangle button, a mysterious power will reveal to you the places you can interact with.
Having such a strange power at your disposal from the very beginning is super-useful.

Well, then. We recommend that you explore this sandy beach in order to advance the story.

That does sound super-useful. Looks like they’ve learned a lesson!

And here is our first look at the new, improved interface! As you can see in the upper right corner, this is the prologue. It’s also daytime and we’re at Level 1, whatever that means. The name of the current background music track is scrolling next to the guitar.

Palm trees are a staple of southern islands.

These ones are nice, I guess. But… they’re just scenery. Not really important right now.

A monitor is attached to the tree… but why?

There’s nothing playing on it… What’s the point of it?

Let’s move our viewpoint to the left…

A crystal clear blue sea… Essential to any island paradise.

Not that I’m impressed or anything.

It’s not like I ever really wanted to visit such a place myself.

Hm? This is a camera, isn’t it?
 …A security camera?
 Are they spying on us?!

I wouldn’t call it spying…
 I think you could say they’re watching over us to keep us from danger…

But hey, you can’t help but feel worried about things you have no control over, can you?

What’s up with this guy…? How can he keep so calm in this situation?

…Is he really that easygoing?

So, how about it? Are you feeling any better?
 Um… I know you’re all messed up right now because of what happened, but…
 We should really introduce ourselves, don’t you think?
 Yeah… I guess we should.

…Pleased to meet you. My name is Nagito Komaeda.

Super High-school Level Good Luck: Nagito Komaeda

Nagito Komaeda ( 狛枝凪斗 ) is voiced by Megumi Ogata, best known for her role as Shinji Ikari in the Evangelion franchise. Oh, you may also remember her as Makoto Naegi in Dangan Ronpa.

…

Oh, and since we’re introducing ourselves…
 I guess I should explain the talent that got me into Hope’s Peak Academy.

…Though, in my case, it’s kind of a lousy talent.
 Why would you call a talent “lousy”…?

My talent is having good luck.
 …Excuse me?

I’m not joking. It’s official. That’s my talent.
 They called me “Super High-school Level Good Luck”.
 You’re serious? Super High-school Level… Good Luck?

According to my invitation, every high-school student in the country was entered into a lottery…
 …And the winner invited to enroll as a bearer of “Super High-school Level Good Luck”.
 What I’m saying is… I’m here because of my exceptional good fortune. Literally.

Chosen by lottery… What the hell were they thinking?

I mean, is “Good Luck” even really a “talent”?
Surely, just having a lottery ensures… Nevermind. It’s a mystery. Leave it at that.

You look like you’re not really sure what to make of this.
 No… it’s not that at all…

No, it’s fine. I’m not sure what to think about it myself.

I’m just a regular high-school student with no talent. I never thought I could get into Hope’s Peak.
 At first, I got scared and tried to refuse the invitation. But they insisted.
 Apparently, the luck factor is still a mystery for Hope’s Peak’s staff.
 And so, for the sake of research, the school picks one “Super High-school Level Good Luck” by lottery each year.

Hope’s Peak sure is amazing for researching such a trivial thing as “luck” so diligently…
 I’m glad that it makes it possible for someone like me to enter the school, but…

On the other hand… I feel a little out of place.

Ah, I’m sorry… I can’t help having some negative feelings. It’s a bad habit of mine.

Um, that’s it for my introduction.

Huh. Nagito Komaeda…

He comes across as a little wishy-washy, but, at the very least, he doesn’t seem like a bad person.

It’s your turn now.
 Oh. My name is Hajime Hinata.

…I have a question, Hinata-kun. What kind of Super High-school Level ability do you have?
 Um, I…
 I… I…

Music fades out

It isn’t a particularly tough question… Why is this so difficult?
Again, my mind reached out for the memory I needed. Again, it came back with nothing.

What’s going on? It’s like I’m trying to read a book whose pages are being wiped clean as I look…

I really had been starting to feel better. But now…

Huh…?

My body shivered from the force of the discomfort.

Hinata-kun… is something wrong?
 What? N…No…!
 I think I’m still a little bit confused… I… can’t seem to remember very well…

You can’t remember…?

Music resumes

I suppose… with everything that’s happened, some memory loss isn’t that strange.

I’m sure it’s just shock, or something… I’m sure you’ll recover soon!
 So… try not to worry too much, okay?
 Yeah… I guess…

Well… it looks like we’re done with our introductions.
 I’m not really sure what’s going on, but I hope we can be friends.

Hope Shard Acquired

Achievement chime

Hey, did you hear something just now?!
 T… There was a strange noise… I think it came from…!

Confused, I thrust my hand into my pocket.

I think that mechanical sound came from in there…

W… What is this thing?
 It looks like a smartphone or something…
 Why is it in my pocket?

Usami just gave them to us. Don’t you remember…?

Oh, right, right… I think you were in the middle of passing out when that happened…
 N… Now that you say that, I think I remember something like that happening…
 …So, what is it?

Miss Monomi’s Practice Lesson

It’s an Ewectwonic Student Handbook!
 …Uwah!!
 H…Hey, how… Where the hell did you come from?!

Aww, did I startle you? I’m so sowwy.

Tee-hee… I’m not ashamed of apologies. They’re vewy important!

…By the way, isn’t that thing so cool? Isn’t it?
 It’s a cwucial part of this field twip, so pweeease don’t lose it!
 …This device is… important?

My task for everyone is to use this Ewectwonic Student Handbook and gather “Hope Shards”!

…Hope Shards?

You see, when you deepen your bonds with your classmates on this island, you acquire “Hope Shards”.
 The more you get along with everyone, the more “Hope Shards” you gather.
 I want you to gather as many “Hope Shards” as you can, and make your Hope flower bwoom…
 That’s the goal of this field twip!

Wuv! Wuv!!

Hey, wait!

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

…She’s gone.

That stuffed doll doesn’t just walk and talk. It seems she can teleport as well.

I don’t get it at all. Who is operating that thing?!

What are these… “Hope Shards”, she said? What are they for?
 …And why does she even want them so badly? It’s like we’re playing a game…

If this is just a game, it’d be a relief…
 If nothing else, it’d mean we’re not actually in any danger.
 I… I guess you’re right…
 But… more importantly, you still don’t know anything about the others, do you?

I think you should go and introduce yourself to everyone.
 Yeah… I probably should.
 But, where did they all go?

I think they’re still exploring the island.
 Are you serious? They went exploring?

We’ve been told to live here… so we figured we should probably get a feel for the place.
 What kind of island is this? Is there a way off? Do we have food and supplies?

Anyway, why not look around yourself, and make your introductions while you’re at it?
 I’ve already spoken to everyone… but I’d like to tag along while you explore, if that’s OK.

It seems I’ve got myself a partner…

…I suppose I should be thankful. Exploring alone doesn’t sound very enjoyable.

Let’s go, then!
 …………

I can’t help but wonder though… Is everyone really alright with this?
Can we really just take this unusual situation so easily?

Is this what fresh air and sunlight does to people?

Or maybe… it’s something that Usami did to us?

What’s wrong, Hinata-kun? We should go.
 Y…Yeah.

Whatever the case… it can’t hurt to investigate this… nightmare. It is a nightmare, right?

Only one way to find out, I guess.

Tutorial posted:
You may now use your “Handbook”. It allows you to access many game functions.

The handbook can be opened by pushing the square button. It is super-easy.

Among other things, you can find a guide for this field trip inside the handbook, as well as report cards that keep information about the students.
The handbook also allows you to save and load your game. Look for these options under the System entry.

But there’s one more thing! By pushing the Select button, you may access a back log!

This concludes our tour of the handbook. Please use it at your own convenience.
I wish you luck in your quest searching for the other students.

Oh. You can exit the beach by pushing the cross button.

Well, since the tutorial has been so nice, let’s see what the handbook has to offer.

This item says map, but it’s disabled.

Question marks. This thing isn’t very useful so far.

Presents. Unfortunately, we don’t have any yet.

Report Cards. Let’s see what’s inside.

Hajime Hinata
Height: 179cm / Weight: 67kg / Chest: 91cm / Blood type: A
Birthday: January 1
Likes: Kusa-mochi
Hates: Sakura-mochi
Title: Super High-school Level ???

A mochi is a type of Japanese confectionery. It’s basically a rice dumpling, often filled with some kind of paste (usually made of red beans). Kusa-mochi (lit. grass mochi) is made with mugwort leaves. Sakura mochi is made and decorated with cherry blossom leaves. 

Blood types! They are learning!

Nagito Komaeda
Height: 180cm / Weight: 65kg / Chest: 84cm / Blood type: O
Birthday: April 28
Likes: Beautiful things
Hates: Loud places
Title: Super High-school Level Good Luck

Permit me to save you all some time; don’t bother looking it up. Carry on.

That’s all the cards we can see right now. Let’s move back to the main menu.

Guide for the field trip. I’m going to nonchalantly ignore it for now, and move to…

Pet. Huh.

Aww. It’s still an egg. The hearts say “Hope Measure” and the skulls “Despair Measure”. Then we have the number of steps needed to make it grow, and the total number of steps. Not much we can do until it hatches, though, so…

Hey, wait, is that-

…Finally, System. Nothing interesting in there, unless you enjoy controlling sound levels or returning to main menus. Move along.

And now it’s finally time to push the cross button and get off this beach.

Oh, right, I almost forgot…

There’s a map of the island in our handbooks…
 …Exploring the island is going to be very easy if we use it!

Also, I… ah… I looked up information about everyone before I came to the school.
 I can tell you some useful stuff about most of them. Not all of them, though.
 …You mean, you actually found information about them on the web?

Oh, for - they’re doing this deliberately, aren’t they?!

Eh? You don’t know?
 Whenever Hope’s Peak Academy recruits a new class, the message boards go a bit crazy…
 Does that mean… did you find something about me on there too…?

No, I don’t think so… There was way too much info for me to read, though… Maybe I missed it?

Quite a coincidence, isn’t it? You can’t remember anything yourself, after all.

It can’t be that there just wasn’t anything about me written there, can it?

I mean, the one thing I have no doubt of is that I did join Hope’s Peak Academy…

Anyway, let’s go on our introductory journey. I’ll try not being useless.
 Y… Yeah. Let’s go.

I guess I’d better introduce myself to everyone and find out what they’re like.

Tutorial posted:
Sorry for causing so much trouble, but there is something important I forgot to tell you.

By accessing the map in your handbook, you can learn where anyone is at any given moment.
You can also jump to places marked with a “GO!” icon instantly.

Furthermore, should you see an exclamation mark icon, this is the place to be to make the story continue.

It’s super-convenient. Now, let’s go on.

These titles appear whenever you move from location to location. I’ll show each once.

Next time, we go exploring! 

Tutorial posted:
Movement across the island occurs on this screen.
You may move by using the analog pad. Holding the cross button allows you to run.

By pushing the left and right arrow buttons, you may move to the next location instantly.
Should the cursor indicate an interesting spot, you can enter it by pushing the circle button.

I am certain you have noticed by now, but there is an electronic pet inside your handbook.
This pet grows according to the number of steps you take. Please try to walk as much as you can without using a map jump.

If you can make your pet grow, you may even get a small reward. Probably.

Here’s a convenient, time saving game mechanic! Don’t use it though!

The tutorial just told us the map is now available, so let’s check it out.

…It’s not very pretty. Also, pretty much every location has an exclamation mark on it, so we might as well start moving randomly and see where that takes us.

We move around the island on this horizontal-scrolling screen. It eventually wraps around, since we’re walking in a circle on the island’s circumference. We can walk:

…and we can run by holding the cross button:

A few steps to the right of the beach we reach this location:

…Which seems worth exploring.

I’ll say.

This is an airport, isn’t it? And… are those…

…Airplanes?

Does this mean… we can fly off of this island?

‘Fraid not.
 Those things’re goin’ nowhere. I mean… they’re not broken - if they were just broken, we’d be flying already, y’know?
 So… what’s the problem?

They’re empty. Engines’re gone. Simply not there. These jets? They’re props.
 The engines are… missing?

Is this the work of whoever brought us to this island?

…It must be whoever is operating that Usami.
But… who is it?

Why did he bring us here?

And… how?

The more I think about it, the more it becomes a mystery.

…I’d’ve thought the “how” was starting to become apparent. Oh well.

Ah… didn’t mean to start talkin’ shop when we just met. And, since we have just met…

Name’s Kazuichi Souda, “Super High-school Level Mechanic”. Atcha service!

Kazuichi Souda: Super High-school Level Mechanic

Kazuichi Souda ( 左右田和一 ) is voiced by Yoshimasa Hosoya. Hosoya played many roles in his career, and he also has one in a game often mentioned when Dangan Ronpa is: he’s the Japanese voice of Dio in Virtue’s Last Reward.

Just like his title says, Souda-kun’s a wizard with machines. He can fix… well, pretty much anything.
 So, when he says that these planes are beyond repair…

Look… Bad stuff happens to engines, yeah? Sometimes, irreparable bad stuff. Sad, but true.
 This, though? Grounded plane, otherwise fine, completely missing engines? That’s deliberate. Someone wants us to stay here.

Ah well. This ain’t natural, but I guess it’s nothing we can’t handle, right?
 …Huh? Weren’t you just saying…?

I mean… sure, we’ve been trapped here, but… they aren’t forcing us to do anything weird or dangerous, right?

I mean… you read the rules, right?
 Y’know, in that Electronic Student Handbook thing we got? They’re under the Guide section. Go ahead, take a look!

Rule no. 1
Excess violence is forbidden on this island. Let’s live peacefully and quietly together.

Rule no. 2
Let’s gather “Hope Shards” by deepening our bonds with our friends.

Rule no. 3
Throwing garbage and damaging the environment is forbidden. Let’s live in harmony with nature on this beautiful island.

Rule no. 4
The supervising teacher will not interfere directly with student activities, unless any rules are broken.

See? They’re all rules for keeping order. Like any other field trip, really.

No violence, harmony with nature… Peaceful, quiet days.
 It’s just like Usami said.
 The rules in this guide look like they’re there simply to protect that peace.
 But… do you really trust Usami that easily? None of us consented to this! She basically kidnapped us!

That’s rather a pessimistic attitude, isn’t it? Don’t you think you should have more… hope… than that?
 A hopeful outlook is an indispensable part of the human condition!

I say we take it easy and see how things play out, y’know? Until something happens, just treat it like a vacation!

Heh heh! Even that weird bunny is kinda cute once you take a good look at her!

It must be nice, to be able to take this so lightly… I’m actually a little jealous.

Hope Shard Acquired

Once we have a Hope Shard for someone, we can check their card in our handbook.

Kazuichi Souda
Height: 172cm, Weight: 64kg, Chest: 86cm, Blood type: A
Birthday: June 29
Likes: Cola
Hates: Sugar-free
Title: Super High-school Level Mechanic

Next, this guy over there in the back. I believe he’s the only person on this island who we haven’t heard speak at all yet.

Music screeches to a halt.

Halt. You will come no closer… if you value your life.

Re: Junk Food for a Dashing Youth

………what?

Hrmph! Even so warned, you persist? Your courage, at least, is commendable. So be it, then.

W…What… the hell… Is this guy for real!?

Nyahaha… Tell me, courageous one… Would you hear my name? Do you believe yourself worthy?

I suppose I must admit… your show of bravado amused me somewhat…

Gyaaahahaha! Very well then! I will tell you my name! Prepare yourself!

Before you stands Gundam Tanaka. Do not forget that name… When I rule the world, to do so will be to invite death.

Gundam Tanaka: Super High-school Level Animal Breeder

Gundam Tanaka ( 田中眼蛇夢 ) is voiced by Tomokazu Sugita, who gained extreme popularity after playing Kyon in the 2006 TV series The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya.

Yes, I know the screen says GANDAMU. His name’s still Gundam.

In other words… yes, dear reader, your suspicion is correct.

R…Rule… the world…?

He’s… kidding, right? He wouldn’t… He can’t… Who would be serious about this?!

And now, courageous one, you will answer a question from me. Whose master are you?
 W… what…?

I suggest you answer promptly. With which species have you made bonds?
 …Huh? Bonds? What are you talking about?

Answer! Answer now, for I shall DESTROY you once you do!
 If you’re going to destroy me when I answer, why should I?!

I think he’s asking if you’ve ever raised a pet…
 …A pet?
 Um… Not really. The only animal I’ve ever had was this hermit crab they gave us in elementary school…

A crustacean?!

Foolish human! Your talent is negligible! A Level 5, at most! You are beneath me!
 Beneath…?!

Yes! You are beneath me! You are garbage! Trash! Refuse! You are lucky that I deign to continue this conversation!

You know my name, but have you any idea who I am? I, Gundam Tanaka, was known and feared as “The Ascendant Ruler of Ice”!
 W…Wait a second! What the… a-are those… How did…?!

Behold! The “Tanaka Kingdom”! By making my very body a home to my subjects, I have tamed their evil spirits!

He’s just like our very own Dr. Dolittle. Just what you’d expect from a “Super High-school Level Animal Breeder”…

Gundam’s secret technique, the “Tanaka Kingdom” is, as Nagito immediately points out in the original script, a reference to Masanori Hata, also known as Mutsugoro-san, and his Tokyo zoo/animal park “Mutsugoro Animal Kingdom”. Hata has been Japan’s foremost celebrity expert on wild animals for decades now, produced countless of TV specials where he introduces wild animals around the world, lived for years on an inhabited island off the coast of Hokkaido with a pet bear cub, and owns the aforementioned park. 

Hear what “Mirage Silver Falcon” Jum-P, one of my Four Dark Gods of Destruction, has to say:
 “Do not anger us!” You should heed this warning, insignificant one. You will not find these four… merciful.

The names of all Four Dark Gods of Destruction are trickled out in dialogue later, but you can hear him call them all in one of his voice clips. They are "Mirage Silver Falcon” Jum-P (the sleepy one), “Star-destroyer Grey Fox” Sun-D (the female one), “Invading Black Dragon” Cham-P (the fat one) and “Steel Red Elephant” Maga-G (the other one).

They are named after the “big four” shonen manga magazines: Shonen Jump, Shonen Sunday, Shonen Champion and Shonen Magazine.

Haha… ahaha…

AAAAHAHAhahaha!!

Hope Shard Acquired

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

Um… Anyway. He may be a bit strange, but he’s an unmatched genius when it comes to animals.
 He can tame anything, and he even managed to save some species that were on the verge of extinction.
 There’s a rumor he can even talk to animals… but that’s probably just a joke.

Talking to animals… that’s… crazy… right? Then again… he raises hamsters inside his muffler.

Maybe… No. I will not dignify this thought with further consideration.

Gundam Tanaka
Height: 182cm, Weight: 74kg, Bust: 93cm, Blood type: B
Birthday: December 14
Likes: The Four Dark Gods of Destruction
Hates: Earthly existence
Title: Super High-school Level Animal Breeder 

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

Time to see where the road takes us next.

At the very least, this island is well equipped!

It looks like switching from 3D to sidescrolling has allowed them to really step up the graphics in these hub areas. I mean, that’s a lens flare there. They’re going all out.

It’s a supermarket… And a pretty big one.

It looks just like what you’d expect to find on a resort island… I guess we are abroad after all.

It looks like we won’t have to worry about food and supplies, at least for now.
 What do you mean, “at least for now”?

I…It’s just a figure of speech.
 Well, we don’t even know if any of it is edible. What if it’s all poisoned?

You really do suspect everything, don’t you, Hinata-kun…
 Can you blame me? Under the circumstances, can you really blame me?
 Look around you! This supermarket… it’s massive! But there’s no one here except us!

That can’t be helped. Usami told us it’s an uninhabited island, didn’t she?
 That’s not my point! I mean…
 …Ugh!!

…What’s wrong?
 Nothing, it’s just…

…………

A piercing gaze, pointed right at me… I could feel it!

U… Um… E… Excuse me…
 Um… Y… You see…
 …………

…I… I’m sorry!

W…Why is she crying?!

That’s no good, Hinata-kun. You shouldn’t make girls cry like that!
 …But I didn’t do anything! Or say anything!

Ah… So your name is Hinata-san…? If it’s alright with you, I’d like to remember it. Can I?
 O…Of course… I don’t mind…

M… My name is Mikan Tsumiki. Um… I… I’m very pleased to meet you!

Mikan Tsumiki: Super High-school Level Nurse

Mikan Tsumiki ( 罪木蜜柑 ) is voiced by Ai Kayano, a relatively new player in the Japanese voice acting scene.

Um…

Um… Um… Um…

Sniff… It’s too much… My nerves… My mind’s going completely blank…
 …I thought ahead of 5000 ways this conversation could proceed, but I can’t remember any!

That’s probably because you tried to cram 5000 branches of conversation into your head!

In that case, take your time and try to remember them. We’ll be waiting here.
 Don’t worry about our time. We can wait as long as you need.

Hawa…Hawawa!!

Isn’t that just putting more pressure on her?

I… don’t think I’d get anywhere by asking her, so I guess I’ll just hear it from you.
 Who is this girl?
 Mikan Tsumiki-san? She’s a “Super High-school Level Nurse”.
 If you’re hurt, she’s the one you want at your side… so you’d better be nice to her! It might just save your life.
 Just think… even a little cut could slowly get more and more infected, until you die… all because you offended Tsumiki-san.
 Don’t say that with such a big smile on your face…

Heh heh… Hehhehhehheh…!

Ah! I… I’m sorry! I laughed without asking for permission!

I… I couldn’t help it. It’s been such a long time since I made new friends, and I was so happy…

Oh, but you never said you agreed to be my friends! I’m sorry for saying something so impudent!

I’ll do anything you say… so, please don’t hate me…!

…That’s no good, Hinata-kun. You shouldn’t make girls cry like that!

But I… I give up.

I’m sorry… I’m sorry!

Hope Shard Acquired

And we also gained a level! (Whatever that means)

Mikan Tsumiki
Height: 165cm / Weight: 57kg / Chest: 89cm / Blood type: A
Birthday: May 12
Likes: Toilets, the smell of isopropanol
Hates: Things that are too big
Title: Super High-school Level Nurse

Before we go on to the other person in this supermarket, let’s check out the goods. We’ll start with this suspicious pile in the front.

This stand has military goods… Are those night-vision goggles?

What supermarket would carry these things?

Surfboards…

…Not that I’m in the mood for water sports.

Gigantic bottles of Cola…

They’re so big that they’re basically guaranteed to go flat before you finish them, leaving you with gross sugar water.

…

It’s some kind of vending machine, but…

…It doesn’t look like it takes regular money. Instead, it requires… some kind of special coins?

Special coins indeed. Now, we can finally get to the girl standing in the aisle.

Looking looking looking♪ Looking over here♪ Looking looking –

–Look! It’s - hey! I don’t know you!

Um… Hi. My name is Hajime Hinata, and –

Huh!? What was that!? Where’s the energy, huh!? Are you still asleep!?

That’s not an introduction! THIS is an introduction! You ready?! Let’s go!

“Ibu” from Ibuki Mioda! “Ki” from Ibuki Mioda! “Mio” from Ibuki Mioda! “Da” from Ibuki Mioda! That’s me - Ibuki Mioda!

Ibuki Mioda: Super High-school Level Light Music Club Member

Ibuki Mioda ( 澪田唯吹 ) is voiced by Ami Koshimizu, who has been in all sorts of popular series. Her one role which is likely relevant to readers of this LP is that of Yukiko Amagi in Persona 4 and its offshoots.

Ibuki Mioda is a walking reference to the super-popular (to the level of becoming a national phenomenon) 2009 anime series K-ON! about a light music club in an all-girl high school. Mioda’s name itself is comprised of one kanji character from the names of each of the four K-ON! leads.

Introduction: o-ver! This supermarket is something else, huh?!

They have hamburgers and ramen and chilli beans and sausages and pasta… even melons!

That’s food that can satisfy Americans and Chinese and Mexicans and Germans and Italians… even Yubari residents!

The city of Yubari, Hokkaido is famous for their melons.

Uwah! This is so exciting! Such a huge assortment of products is just so exciting!

But being excited makes me so hungry!
 Ibuki doesn’t get her own body… Why does Ibuki get hungry when she’s excited, huh!?

Kyahaha, the human body’s mysterious, huh?!

Um… This slightly overwhelming person is our “Super High-school Level Light Music Club Member”…
 She comes from a girls-only high school, where she played guitar for a super-popular girl band.
 I heard that their hit single, “After-school Poyoyon Hour” sold a million copies.

A super-popular girl band… Light music club…

…I think I heard about something like that before… somewhere.

But, I also heard she left the band over creative differences. She’s now pursuing a solo career.
 …Creative differences?

Are you intrigued?!
 Whoa! Did you hear us?!

Ibuki is a musician, after all!

Just like Schubert and Bach and Edison and Van Gogh and Pele and Senna… a gifted musician!
 I get that you’re saying you’ve got sensitive ears, but…
 …Two thirds of those people aren’t musicians.

Details, details!

Hope Shard Acquired

Ibuki Mioda
Height: 164cm / Weight: 42kg / Chest: 76cm / Blood type: AB
Birthday: November 27
Likes: Taking walks, Midday naps, Playing games
Hates: Boredom
Title: Super High-school Level Light Music Club Member 

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

Off to the next location.

Here we are! But wait, there’s a notification on the bottom left of the screen.

Hey, our pet hatched! Its name is Chibimi. I can give it presents with the triangle button, but I don’t have any. So leave it to play by itself and move on.

Oh no! If only we’d had the means and opportunity to buy presents!

Wow… this is a pretty fancy looking hotel!

“Hotel Mirai”… Looks like they used a Japanese word to name their hotel.
 When I heard we’d have to live here, I was afraid we’d be camping out, abandoning the comforts of modern life… 

…But I guess we get to stay in the future after all! Heh… get it? ‘Cause “Mirai” means –
 How can you make puns at a time like this?! We’ve been brought to a strange place, under suspicious circumstances…!
 How can you just… accept this?! You look like you’re actually enjoying this!

…In any case, it looks like this hotel will be our base. Don’t you think we should take a look around?
 …………

How?! How can he still be so calm?!

Doesn’t any of this bother him?!

…Maybe he’s just shellshocked?

Tutorial posted:
When you push the triangle button in this area, a map appears on the screen.

The triangle button. I shall not repeat this twice, so please pay attention.

Some areas on the island open to small 3D areas, in the DR1 style. Let’s explore.

And here I was thinking that the step-up in graphical quality in the hubs was due to them all being 2D.

Hey there.

This small cottage seems to be a hotel room.

There’s a similar row of cottages on the other side of the main walkway, but let’s move towards the main building.

Hrmmm…?
 I don’t think you’ve asked for my name yet…

My name’s Nekomaru Nidai.

The legendary “Super High-school Level Coach”, NEKOMARU NIDAIIIIII!!

Nekomaru Nidai: Super High-school Level Coach

Nekomaru Nidai ( 弐大猫丸 ) is voiced by Hiroki Yasumoto. Here’s one other video game character Mr. Yasumoto played this year: Asura in Asura’s Wrath.

U…Um, nice to meet you. I’m… Hajime Hinata.

SPEAK UP, BOY! PUT YOUR BELLY INTO IT! AGAIN!!
 U…Um, Hajime Hinata!

GAAAAAAH! YOU CAN DO BETTER! ONE MORE TIME!! GIVE IT ALL YOU GOT!! LET’S HEAR IT!!
 I’m Hajime Hinata! Nice to meet you!

MY NAME IS NEKOMARU NIDAIIIIII! A NAME YOU WON’T FORGET! EVEN WHEN YOU’RE IN HELL!
 “SUPER HIGH-SCHOOL LEVEL COACH” NEKOMARU NIDAI! THAT’S! MY! NAAAAAAAME!!
 I…I get it! You don’t have to repeat it over and over!

GAHAHAHA! DULY NOTED!

My ears are still ringing! That voice of his is something else… and so is his body.

Nekomaru Nidai’s a “Super High-school Level Coach”.
 A… coach? That’s it? That’s all he is?
 I mean… I know it’s his title and everything, but still… Just a coach?!

Of course he’s not “just a coach”! He’s a “Super High-school Level Coach”. 
 He’s been moving from school to school, coaching their various sports teams.
 For example, there was that group of delinquents he trained into a rugby team that won the national inter-school cup…
 Then there was that baseball team he took from the brink of collapse all the way to the big leagues…
 There’s a rumor that a famous Japanese pitcher now playing for an American Major League team came to him for training.

I… I guess even coaching becomes impressive when you take it to “Super High-school Level”…

GAHAHAHA!

But, with that body of his, shouldn’t he be a player instead of just a coach?

Hope Shard Acquired

Nekomaru Nidai
Height: 198cm / Weight: 122kg / Chest: 122cm / Blood type: A
Birthday: February 22
Likes: Freshly washed towels
Hates: Lazy people
Title: Super High-school Level Coach

Let’s continue exploring the hotel.

…Hey, retard. You have any idea who I am? Guess not… since you’re still here.

Uh oh. Maybe I should just back away…

What’s up with that face? You got a problem with me?!

…C…Calm down, Kuzuryuu-kun. We just came here to introduce ourselves.

…Aa? Introductions?

Don’t you remember? This guy hasn’t introduced himself yet.

Feh.
 …………
 I’m Fuyuhiko Kuzuryuu… But make no mistake. We will not be friends.

Fuyuhiko Kuzuryuu: Super High-school Level Gangster

Fuyuhiko Kuzuryuu ( 九頭龍冬彦 ) is played by Daisuke Kishio, a veteran voice actor with many roles under his belt. Most of them are beautiful men.

His baby face is kinda cute, but he has a terrible attitude.

Kuzuryuu-kun is… the teenage successor of the Kuzuryuu family.
 Wait… You don’t mean… that Kuzuryuu family…?!

Yep. Japan’s largest organized crime enterprise. 30,000 strong and growing.
 I was hoping you’d heard of them. It saves us all a lot of… explaining.

So, yes. Kuzuryuu-kun is a “Super High-school Level Gangster”.

A… A yakuza heir…? From the Kuzuryuu family…? A “Super High-school Level Gangster”…? That’s… that’s…

By the way, I heard “baby face” is a taboo word around him. Please be careful.
 …You can never have too many fingers, you know.

And I… I was… I was about to…!

Komaeda… I owe you my life.

Ha ha… you’re exaggerating. Probably.

Hey. You two. If you’re done… get lost. Retards.

Hope Shard Acquired

Fuyuhiko Kuzuryuu
Height: 157cm / Weight: 43kg / Chest: 73cm / Blood type: AB
Birthday: August 16
Likes: Karinto
Hates: Milk
Title: Super High-school Level Gangster

Karinto is a deep-fried Japanese snack. Like many Japanese snacks, some people think it’s amazing while others take one look at it and are ready to vomit.

Ah! Hey, you’re the guy who lost his head back on the beach, aren’t you?
 Um… Yeah, I am…

A man shouldn’t be so fragile, you know? It’s your job to protect us girls at times like this, isn’t it?
 I…I guess?

You’re here for introductions, aren’t you? I don’t think we’ve made ours yet.

Um… My name is Mahiru Koizumi. Nice to meet you, I guess.

Mahiru Koizumi: Super High-school Level Photographer

Mahiru Koizumi ( 小泉真昼 ) is voiced by Yuu Kobayashi. She’s yet another very prolific voice actor in this game. Fans of Dangan Ronpa may have heard her as Kanon in the animated version of Umineko no Naku Koro Ni.

Koizumi-san’s a “Super High-school Level Photographer”. She’s a promising young talent, they say.
 I don’t know much about photography myself, but I heard she’s won all kinds of awards for her photos.
 It seems she’s best known for her characteristic portraits.

A “Super High-school Level Photographer”, huh?

I guess that explains the expensive-looking camera she’s hauling around.

I have to say I’m relieved. You two look like decent guys.
 …Hm? Decent?

Everyone else here’s kinda weird, don’t you think? I mean, they may all be “Super High-school Level” geniuses, but…
 I was worried that maybe we wouldn’t get along. But I guess we’ll have to if we ever want to leave this island…
 Wait, “leave this island”… we can leave?!

Huh? Didn’t you know? That’s what that stuffed doll Usami told us.

She said that after we gather every Hope Shard by becoming friends…

…This absurd “field trip” will be over and we can all leave this island. That’s what she said.
 W…We can leave the island?! Really? Did she really say that?!

You should really listen to what people say, you know! Otherwise you’ll miss the important details! Like that, just now!

So, Hinata-kun, did that calm you down a little?
 If we can live here normally for a little while, we’ll soon be able to leave this island.
 There’s no need for panic, see?
 B…But, even so…
 Why? Why is she making us do this? What’s her motive? What’s the point?
 It’s ridiculous - dragging all of us to an island and telling us to become friends…
 …It makes no sense!

You’re right, we don’t know her reasons. But, if that’s what gets us off this island, we have no choice.

Well, I’m glad that’s all we have to do. It’s not such a big deal.

Not a big deal… Is that really so?

Here we are, on a so-called “field trip” in a strange place, without warning, consent or explanation…
…And we were told to forget about Hope’s Peak Academy.

…How is this not a big deal?

…Hey!
 …Eh?!

Don’t “eh” me! Don’t you think you should introduce yourself too? Or should I just keep standing here waiting?!
 Oh, I’m sorry…
 I’m Hajime Hinata. Um, nice to meet you.

Hinata-kun, is it…?

Well, I regret to inform you that you are hereby branded “Hinata-kun the unreliable”.

I expect you to work hard to shake that title off. Act more like a man!

…Hinata-kun. I think your wife is keeping you on a short leash.

I was was talking to both of you! Act more like real men, understand?!

Hope Shard Acquired

Mahiru Koizumi
Height: 165cm / Weight: 46kg / Chest: 77cm / Blood type: A
Birthday: April 24
Likes: Traveling alone
Hates: People lacking manners
Title: Super High-school Level Photographer 

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

There’s a building right next to where Mahiru is standing, to the side of the hotel complex. What could be in there?

Miss Monomi’s Practice Lesson

Ah, you can’t go in there! The old lodge is scheduled for weconstwuction, so entry is forbidden!
 It’s just too dangewous!

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

You’re dangerous, appearing from nowhere like that…

There’s no one else standing outside, so let’s move into the hotel.

Yep. Just as magnificent and classy on the inside as it is on the outside.
 You know, if this was a regular field trip, I’d have a big dumb grin on my face too…
 …But, why is there no one in this hotel except us? Where are all the staff?

That can’t be helped. It’s an uninhabited island, after all.

An uninhabited island… with flawlessly maintained facilities, power, and probably running water too.

What the hell is going on with this island…?

Arcade game tables…

That’s amazing! Just what you’d expect from a luxury hotel!
 Are you sure? They look more like what you’d find at a cheap hot spring resort.

This looks like the reception desk, but there’s no one around.

…………

There’s a girl sitting at the arcade table. She’s totally immersed in the game.

…………

Hey, Hinata-kun. You haven’t introduced yourself to her yet, right?
 Y… Yeah.

She’s concentrating entirely on the game, but I guess I could try getting her attention…

…Um, do you have a second? We should introduce ourselves…
 ………..

…Hey, Nanami-saaaan!

Ah! I’m sorry… I think I got a little bit too engrossed in the game…

Oh, there’s no doubt about it. You were totally lost in it.

Um… Do you want me to introduce myself? Okay, got it.
 …………

My name is Chiaki Nanami. I’m a Super High-school Level Gamer. My hobby is playing games. I’m pretty good with all genres.
 …………

Nice to meet you.

Chiaki Nanami: Super High-school Level Gamer

Chiaki Nanami ( 七海千秋 ) is played by Kana Hanazawa. Recently, she played Marie in Persona 4 The Golden, though I doubt even avid Persona fans in this thread heard her in the role.

My name’s Hajime Hinata. Nice to meet you too…
 …………
 …………

Yeah, you too.
 You… aren’t very good with conversations, are you.

She’s still playing the game while she’s talking, you know.

Oh, it’s not just that…
 …………

I can’t speak well unless I compose everything I want to say inside my head first.
 If I don’t have every word prepared, I’m just not a very good speaker…
 That’s even more so with someone I’m meeting for the first time… But I think things will move faster the more I get to know you.

She just said all that without taking her eyes off the game once.

…And it even looks like she’s keeping up with it. I guess she really is a “Super High-school Level Gamer”.

Yaaaaawn…

…That got me so tired.

Hope Shard Acquired

Chiaki Nanami
Height: 160cm / Weight: 46kg / Chest: 88cm / Blood type: O
Birthday: March 14
Likes: Games (even bad ones)
Hates: Alarm clocks
Title: Super High-school Level Gamer

…Do you want something?
 Um, no. I just thought we should introduce ourselves. Is that alright…?
 Introduce ourselves…

Very well, I don’t mind.
 My name’s Hajime Hinata. Nice to meet you.

I am called Peko Pekoyama. It’s an honor to meet you too.

Peko Pekoyama: Super High-school Level Swordswoman

Peko Pekoyama ( 辺古山ペコ ) is played by Kotono Mitsuishi, one of the legendary voice actresses of the ‘90s. Among her better known roles are Usagi Tsukino/Sailor Moon (in, well, Sailor Moon) and Misato Katsuragi (in the Evangelion franchise), although my own personal favorite has always been Excel in Excel Saga. Trivia: Mitsuishi is one of two actors in this game that script writer Kodaka asked for specifically.

This gallant young woman has a talent with swords - she’s a Super High-school Level Swordswoman.
 Peko Pekoyama-san… Her cute name may not convey this very well, but…
 Her swordplay is so good that most adult men can’t beat her.

Her stare alone makes me feel like I’m being cut to pieces…

If what that bunny told us is true, we are going to spend some time together on this island.
 …Oh? Oh, yeah, that’s what it looks like.

If men and women are to live together, mutual understanding is of utmost importance. We must have no ill feelings between us.

I… don’t want to have to cut anyone.
 U…Um… That thing on your back is just a wooden practice sword, right?

…It is, and therefore I cannot actually cut anyone. Still… a strike in the wrong place will inflict lasting harm…

No… Perhaps I should have said, “the right place”…
 …………

I think I’d better tread carefully around this one.

Hope Shard Acquired

Peko Pekoyama
Height: 172cm / Weight: 51kg / Chest: 85cm / Blood type: O
Birthday: June 30
Likes: The color black
Hates: Candy
Title: Super High-school Level Swordswoman 

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

Let’s see what’s upstairs.

This looks like… the hotel restaurant.

It’s large enough to host a banquet. A sense of space you can only get in southern countries…
 A sense of space? We’re trapped on an island, you know.

I wonder if we really are trapped…
 What else could it be…?
 …………

Oh, well. We’d better get on with the introductions.
 …Look, there’s two people talking over there.

Re: Junk Food for a Dashing Youth

That’s right… It’s terrible if it gets swollen by poison.
 That’s why you must suck the poison out with your mouth as soon as possible…

Poison? I see…
 H… Hey… do you have a second?

Music fades out

Sigh… Just as I was getting close…

…Close?

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

…Good day.
 Er… Good day. My name’s Hajime Hinata. Nice to meet you.

You’re that new face around here, aren’t you?

My name is Teruteru Hanamura. They’ve been calling me a “Super High-school Level Cook”, but…

I prefer “Super High-school Level Chef” myself. It has a much more… sophisticated air, don’t you think?

Teruteru Hanamura: Super High-school Level Cook

Hanamura is voiced by Jun Fukuyama, a prolific voice actor probably best known for his role as Lelouch in the Code Geass franchise.

Hm hm hm… A pleasure to meet you.

Oh! Now that you come to mention it, we two still have yet to introduce ourselves. Please excuse my lateness!

My name is Sonia Nevermind.

Sonia Nevermind: Super High-school Level Princess

Sonia is voiced by Miho Arakawa, a newcomer to the voice acting scene who came to sudden fame after playing Himari in 2011’s Mawaru Penguindrum. Trivia: this is the second actress in the game script writer Kodaka asked for specifically. It seems he’s a bit of a Penguindrum fan. Honestly, you should be too.

I come from the small European country Novoselic. I came to Japan as an exchange student.
 It is a pleasure to make your esteemed acquaintance! May we endeavour to maintain a lasting friendship!
 Y… You too…

Pure white skin that looks like porcelain… Blue eyes like precious jewels… Sparkling golden hair…

She has the kind of appeal that makes you just want to keep looking at her, forever.

…Are you dazzled? I guess that’s to be expected.
 Sonia-san is a “Super High-school Level Princess”. She’s actual royalty.

Super High-school Level… Princess…?

Usually, I’d be surprised by something like that, but…

…For someone as beautiful and overflowing with grace as her, such a title doesn’t seem at all out of place.

Um, this may seem a measure impudent… but… if I may be perfectly honest, that I am here pleases me a little.
 Eh? It does? Why?

In my own country, I had not a single friend my own age who was my equal in status.
 And so, for everyone to gather and partake in this group activity… It is a feeling most novel!

…I applaud you all!
 Applaud…? Um, T… Thank you.

Somehow… I feel like I should kneel down before her.

Hope Shard Acquired

Hey, hey, you three. Are you trying to keep me out of your little group?
 No… not at all…

It sure fits you to go straight to the restaurant, Hanamura-kun. Does it fit the expectations of a Super High-school Level Chef?

Heh heh heh… I’d be lying if I said it didn’t.
 And since I don’t want to be a liar, I’ll tell you the truth right here.

Yeah. It very much fits my expectations.

The urban mood of my home neighborhood Minato is fine, but this kind of rural atmosphere is also magnificent.
 Hm hm hm hm!

Minato is a busy district in central Tokyo.

Hey, Hanamura…

Are you going to tell me how refined I am? Oh, you shouldn’t!
 That’s not it… Aren’t you worried about our situation?
 Worried? What is there to be worried about? I am happy to be here.
 Happy…? Why…?

This is serious business, so listen well.

Music halts

I’ve been keeping an eye on Pekoyama-san, and it seems she keeps her guard surprisingly down.
 What do you think?
 …Huh?

Re: Junk Food for a Dashing Youth

In all likelihood, it’s a black thong. I’d like to hear your opinion.
 This is a matter worthy of serious discussion.
 Go ahead. You may begin.
 …No, I think I’ll pass.

Other than that, and this is also a bit unexpected…
 That Sonia-san over there seems to be surprisingly naive.
 I mean, aren’t princesses supposed to have a certain level of common sense?

For example, if I tell her the lower part of my body got swollen by poison, and ask her to suck it out with her mouth…

Is that… what he was talking to her about before…?!

Music halts

…Excuse me, what are you discussing?

Oh, I will tell you all about it later!

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

…And we will stop you if we see it. Forcibly.

In any case, it seems there’s a chance to broaden my horizons by living on this island. I’m looking forward to it.

After all, in both cooking and in love, passion is the most important thing! Hoh hoh hoh hoh!

This guy… is a different kind of dangerous.

Hope Shard Acquired

Sonia Nevermind
Height: 174cm / Weight: 50kg / Chest: 83cm / Blood type: A
Birthday: October 13
Likes: The occult, Japan
Hates: Umeboshi
Title: Super High-school Level Princess

Teruteru Hanamura
Height: 133cm / Weight: 69kg / Chest: 88cm / Blood type: A
Birthday: September 2
Likes: Mom
Hates: Junk food
Title: Super High-school Level Cook 

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

There’s nothing else to see at the hotel, so we’d better continue our exploration of the island.

Alright then.

This looks like a farm.
 …And yet, there aren’t many animals here.

Miss Monomi’s Practice Lesson

Oopsie… You got me!
 You again?! Where the hell do you keep coming out from?!

I am a vewy elusive bunny wabbit! I can appear anywhere and everywhere on this island!

It’s all thanks to my Magical Stick!

”Magical Stick”… that ridiculous toy she’s holding?

Oh, but this is indeed twoubling.
 A farm without a cow is like a Japan representative who isn’t Japanese.

That’s a… strange comparison.

Okay! Stand back and leave it to my Magical Stick!

Welcome DANGAN IsLand!!

Wooo-eee-ooo…
 Woo-woo-wee-wee-woo-wooooo…!

Chicken! Now! Become a cow!!

…Whaaaaaaa?!

Great success!!

Music halts

W…What was… Did you just…!
 Turn… a chicken… into a cow…?!

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

No… I think it was just smoke and mirrors or some other kind of illusion. She probably had it prepared in advance.
 I think it’s her way of trying to make us happy. Looks like it had the opposite effect on you, though.

…Smoke and mirrors? An illusion?

W…Well, if I calm down and think about this rationally…

There’s no way a chicken can just turn into a cow. It’s a living being, after all!

I think the best way to deal with what just happened is to look at a sign.

“USAMI CORRAL”…
She’s a rabbit, and yet she runs a farm.

…Nothing good will come of questioning this.

On closer look… it still looks like a perfectly normal cow.

But what kind of illusion can turn chickens to cows?

This bird looks like it belongs on a southern island… or does it? I’m not sure what’s what anymore…

Yo! …Who are you guys?
 I haven’t introduced myself yet… the name’s Hajime Hinata.

Uh-huh. And you?

…Huh? We made our introductions on the beach earlier, didn’t we?

Ha ha! Sorry, sorry.
 I’m kinda useless with names. Never got the hang of ‘em… and there’s a lot to remember.

I’m Nagito Komaeda. Please try to remember me from now on, if possible…

Right! I’m Akane Owari! Nice t'meet ya!

Akane Owari: Super High-school Level Gymnast

Owari is voiced by Romi Park, joining the growing list of Persona voice actors in the Dangan Ronpa universe. She played Naoto in Persona 4.

Owari-san is a “Super High-school Level Gymnast”. They say she’s a super athlete.
 According to rumors, she’s difficult to deal with, but… her physical abilities, at least, are something to behold.
 It’s just that her foundations and basic techniques are all messed up. All she ever does is keep inventing her own personal moves.
 She can put on a magnificent performance when her mind’s on it, but when it isn’t she doesn’t even bother showing up to the competition.

That sounds kinda selfish… She sounds more than “difficult” to deal with…

Still, though, if she’s earned the title of “Super High-school Level Gymnast”, she must have seriously impressed someone…

After all, she doesn’t even look like a regular high school girl. Her body’s more like that of a foreign athlete…

Hope Shard Acquired

Huh? Hinata-kun, are you, perhaps…

Oh, I see! You like that kind of… sensual body, don’t you!
 What the hell…! Not so loud! Are you doing that on purpose?!

Akane Owari
Height: 176cm / Weight: 56kg / Chest: 93cm / Blood type: B
Birthday: July 15
Likes: Fighting, meat
Hates: Working hard
Title: Super High-school Level Gymnast

One! Two! Three! Four! One! Two! Three! Four…!

What is this kid doing?

She’s sitting on the ground, pushing her fingers into it enthusiastically…

H…Hey, do you have a second? We haven’t introduced ourselves yet.
 My name’s Hajime Hinata…
 Oh?

You wanna know my name? It’s Hiyoko Saionji!

Hiyoko Saionji: Super High-school Level Classical Dancer

Saionji is voiced by Suzuko Mimori, who is fairly new in the Japanese voice actor scene. She’s probably best known as the main character in a different mystery franchise, cute little girl detective Sherlock Sherinford in Tantei Opera Milky Holmes

One! Two! Three! Four! One! Two! Three! Four!

She just keeps pushing her fingers into the ground… Honestly, what is she doing?

And also… this kid’s figure and voice… I wouldn’t think they belonged to a high-school girl.

…Hiyoko Saionji-san’s talent has won her the title of “Super High-school Level Classical Dancer”.
 She’s a rising star in the Japanese classical dancing circles, and I heard she even regularly performs abroad.
 They say her performances are attended by a surprisingly young crowd for Japanese classical dance shows.
 Well, I guess most of the audience is male, though.

I’m sure that’s because she looks like a cute little girl… I wouldn’t be surprised if most of them weren’t there just for the dancing.

One! Two! Three! Four! One! Two! Three! Four…!
 Hey, what are you doing over there?
 Oh? I’m squashing, see?
 …Squashing?

The anties. I’m squashing the anties.
 …Huh?

Heeheehee… When you press their bellies in the right spot, they make this great squishy sound!

Hey, big bro! Wanna do it together?!
 W…Why would I do something like that!
 Awww… Too bad.

Feh. Coward.

W…Where did that come from?! This… this is no “little girl”.

Hope Shard Acquired

Hiyoko Saionji
Height: 130cm / Weight: 31kg / Chest: 64cm / Blood type: B
Birthday: September 3
Likes: Bubble wrap
Hates: Being scolded, sour food
Title: Super High-school Level Classical Dancer

…Hey, wait a minute! There were clearly cows here when we were outside the farm!

We’re done with the farm, so let’s move onward.

Hinata-kun… it seems this bridge crosses the sea and leads to a separate island.
 Is it… going to be safe over there?

Isn’t finding out stuff like that the reason we’re exploring in the first place?

But… if we cross and it isn’t safe, what does he intend to do…?

Another island to explore, huh? For variety’s sake, let’s head left this time.

More bridges.

There’s a bridge over there, but it’s blocked by a gate…

I think there’s another island over there, but it seems we can’t get to it.
 Yeah, I guess not.

Aha, a place we can actually enter.

This looks like… a small park.

A park surrounded by the ocean…

Not a bad place, is it?

As easygoing as ever…
Well, if the situation was different, I think I could also enjoy lazing around in the sun at a place like this.

If the situation was different.

Tutorial posted:
Are your introductions going well? I have one more thing to tell you.
I’m sure you have already noticed, but there is a level indicator displayed on your screen.
You can find it on the top-right corner.
Your level increases as you “walk” around, “look at” things, and “talk” to people.
As you’d expect, every time your level goes up, you become just a little bit more powerful.
The higher the level, the more skills you can equip. Please do your best to keep leveling up.

Level grinding in a visual novel. That’s… spectacular.

Eye-catching statue, isn’t it?

It’s a statue comprising several animals. Pretty large, too.

Wow! That’s one magnificent statue, isn’t it?
 It is… but it’s also a little creepy, don’t you think?

Is it? I think it’s pretty cool.
 Packs quite a punch, doesn’t it? I’m sure it’s a symbol of this island, or something.

It certainly does pack a punch.

A symbol… of this island, huh?

…What do you want?

Whoa… everything about this guy says “go away”… It’s overwhelming.

…as is his physique.

Ah, Togami-kun… Do you mind if you two introduce yourselves?

…An introduction?

Go on, Hinata-kun.

Um, hi. My name is Hajime Hinata.
 …………

My name is Byakuya Togami.

Byakuya Togami: Super High-school Level Heir

Togami is voiced by Akira Ishida, a popular voice actor. He played Byakuya Togami in Dangan Ronpa.

…I’m done. You don’t need anything else, do you?
 Go away.

H…He… evidently thinks he’s above all of us.

Yep, that’s just what you’d expect from Togami-kun.
 “What you’d expect”… What do you mean?

You see, even among all the Super High-school Level students in our class, he’s special.
 He’s heir to a financial giant - the Togami conglomerate. He’s been taught the secrets of leadership ever since he was very young.
 Despite his age, he’s already held a variety of management positions, and acquired a considerable fortune of his very own.

The title “Super High-school Level Heir” fits him to a tee, doesn’t it? He’s really an exceptional high-school student.

It sounds like he’s more like… someone out of a manga story.

Oy. Did you say your name was Hinata…?
 Eh?
 I have a question for you. Why were you chosen to attend Hope’s Peak Academy?
 Tell me, right now. What’s your Super High-school Level specialty?
 Um… That’s a little…
 …A…Actually, I don’t remember.

You… don’t remember?

It seems his mind’s all in a mess due to the shock… His memory’s not quite back yet.

Feh. Truly a simpleton.
 …………
 U…Um…

…This conversation is over. Do you intend to stand there much longer?

Move your body…! That is what you thin people do, isn’t it?

…Let’s go, Hinata-kun.
 Yeah…

That… aura of inapproachability and overwhelming body…

…Is that what “leadership” is all about?

Hope Shard Acquired

Byakuya Togami
Height: 185cm / Weight: 130kg / Chest: 128cm / Blood type: B
Birthday: May 5
Likes: Coffee
Hates: Common people
Title: Super High-school Level Heir

*ding dong ding dong*

Did you hear that…? It sounded just like a school chime…

…Hinata-kun. Look at that monitor over there.

Music stops

Congwatulations, everyone!!
 It looks like everyone managed to gather their vewy first set of Hope Shards!
 Oh oh oh oh… this makes me so vewy happy…
 And so, I have prepared special pwesents so that you can be happy too!
 I am sorry for the twouble, but please gather up back at the beach.
 Tee-hee! Let’s make our hope shine together!

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

She said we should go back to the beach.
 A…Are you sure it’s alright…? I have a bad feeling about this.

It doesn’t make much sense to just stand here and worry. Let’s just go back to the beach and keep the worrying for later.
 Shouldn’t we at least… take more precautions?

This worries me… but it’s not like I can be the only one who doesn’t show up. 

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

Back on the first island, the beach is right past the bridge. We completed a full loop.

You two are the last ones here. What took you so long…?!

…Sorry to keep you waiting.

…Whatever.
 More importantly, this is our chance to discuss the situation among ourselves before that Usami shows up.

Kya-ha! I love to talk!

Let’s hear it. I want everyone’s first impressions of this island.

There are several sealed off bridges on the central island. Why are they sealed? That worries me.

Oh! The gates are there to make sure we don’t get lost!
 Ibuki tried to find a way past them, and that bunny showed up and said so!

So we don’t get lost…? Is this island… really that large?

Dunno ‘bout that… but all in all, s’not a bad island, is it? Feels like a tourist resort!
 Not that I’ve ever been to one…

I found a biiiig farm!

Um… There’s also a large supermarket… I think there was enough food and supplies over there.

The hotel’s also pretty fancy. If that’s where we’re staying, this won’t be so bad.

The restaurant of the hotel was also satisfactory, though it had about it a quite… common manner.

Hey, I have something important to tell you.
 You see, I found something very important on this island.

Really cute girls! Ha ha! They’re everywhere!

Gyaaaaa! Gross! Ibuki’s got icky prickly tickly goosebumps!

Clueless idiots, the lot of you… Not a single one of you made mention of a certain very important matter.

…Important matter?

I really am dealing with a bunch of simpletons. You’re telling me none of you noticed?

…What did you say, asshole? I recommend you quit being so full of yourself…

…Stop howling, you ignoramus.

…An important matter?

What could Togami be talking about? He got my attention, that’s for sure.

Damn. If we want to see all the extra dialogue, it means I have 15 characters to go through one by one.

There’s only one important thing in this world…
 …And that’s cute girls! How can there be anything more important?!

That Togami… He must be exaggerating…

Togami speaks too much, but Kuzuryuu gets angry too easily…
 Why do boys always speak as if they can’t wait to get into a fight?

Why are you looking at me…?

For such a large island to be so deserted…
 What kind of place are we dealing with?
 I hope whatever it is Togami found will be helpful…

An important matter, huh?! Sounds important!

Which is why you should dash straight to Byakuya-chan and force it out of him!

Of all the things to call that Togami character, she chose “Byakuya-chan”… That’s actually kind of impressive.

From how Togami-san spoke, what he found must not be a good thing.

Everyone, quiet down!
 U…!

I suddenly… couldn’t help but shut up. So, that’s the power of royalty…

Me… an ignoramus…?

Uh oh. He’s angry… Perhaps I’d better stay clear for now…

An important matter…
 …………

zzz… zzz…

……Ah. I fell asleep.

Don’t just fall asleep! And how can you sleep at a time like this?!

I…I’m sorry! I didn’t notice anything important!
 I’m really really sorry… I’m sorry for being a useless ignoramus…!

That’s… really not something to cry about.

Ku… Guy can speak, I’ll give him that. Heirs, man… He sure is something.

Hey, hey, I don’t really get what you’re saying, so, anyone mind if I go swim in the sea?
 I don’t think you should… Usami should be here any second.

Can’t we get this over with, already?

…She isn’t really with us, is she?

I wonder what big bro Togami found?
 He sounds really excited about it, so I’m sure it’s something really cool!
 Tee-hee, I can’t wait!

It seems everyone explored different parts of the island.
 And, just like Usami said, there’s nothing dangerous anywhere.
 So… What could Togami-kun have found?

Hmhmhm… It seems the substantial one is more… observant… than I had surmised…
 Oh? Do you know what he’s talking about, Tanaka? What is it?

…………
 Such knowledge carries a… price… does it not? If you would seek it, you must offer something of value in exchange…

What could you possibly offer, insignificant one, that could satisfy me - a king-to-be?

…I think he doesn’t know anything.

So, what’s this important matter of yours?
 Did you find some information about this island?
 …………

Did none of you cross the bridge and visit the park on the central island?
 Are you talking about the park with that excessive statue… the one with all the creepy animals?

When I saw it, I recalled something I heard a while ago.

Among the islands of the pacific ocean, there is one famous for its scenic beauty. Its everlasting summer makes it a sort of paradise.
 It’s not actually a single island, but a group of five closely encircling a small central one.
 Those five islands are represented by five sacred animals.
 Eh…?
 The name of this island is…

Music fades out

…Jabberwock Island.

Re: Despair Syndrome

So… could this island we’re currently on be…
 Jabberwock Island…?
 Is that what’s this island is called?

If that is indeed the case, then there is something that worries me.
 According to what I’ve heard, Jabberwock Island is already…
 …………

…No, never mind.

Wait. You can’t just stop in the middle like that.

Don’t complain… After I investigate some more and confirm my thoughts, I’ll tell you everything I know.

Music fades out

Who even cares what this island’s called? I mean, whether it’s Niconico Island or Papuwa Island…
 We’re gonna be living here for a while either way, right?

Beautiful Ruin [Summer Salt]

Living together on a southern island sounds sooooo exciting! Ibuki’s super looking forward to that!

That’s right! No more school, either!
 …H…Hey, why is everyone…?

Yeah! I like this island a lot!

…The people on it are a different matter.

Huh? Are my ears deceiving me?

It’s true that some of this is worrying, but we shouldn’t despair yet! This place isn’t that bad!

There’s no real danger here,and it seems we’re free to do as we please… Why don’t we try and make the best out of it?
 Hey, what are you saying…? Try thinking rationally…!
 We were all supposed to enroll at Hope’s Peak Academy, weren’t we? And now, we suddenly have to live on this island…?
 This is strange, however you look at it!

…Be silent. Your fears have made you irrational… I suggest you take a moment to cool your head.
 …Eh?

W…Well, it isn’t like we have anywhere to escape to, even if we wanted to…

There’s no boats… and there may as well be no planes, either.

Nor, as far as I can tell, is there any means of communication with the outside world.
 Therefore, it will be difficult to call for help.

Can’t we just swim back?

I can’t swim that far…!

“CAN’T”?! WHERE’S YOUR SPIRIT?!

Hey, she’s right - it’s impossible!
 S…So… we could cut some trees and make a raft…

Miss Monomi’s Practice Lesson

You can’t do that! I am vewy serious about that!

Remember our rules! They’re in the guide to this field twip!
 “Throwing garbage and damaging the environment is forbidden. Let’s live in harmony with nature on this beautiful island.”
 See? All I wish is for you to live peacefully with your friends and the nature on this beautiful twopical island!
 W…Why should we follow your rules?! We never agreed to that!

…I suggest you stop now. That bunny seems extremely obsessive about her rules.
 There is a chance you are endangering the entire group by doing something foolish. Is that what you want?

I…I never said anything about any “danger”! I would never do such a thing!

Hinata-kun… I get how you feel, but I think you should calm down.

A…Anyway, it doesn’t look like there’s any danger unless we do something weird…

Also, as long as we raise those “Hope Shards”, we’ll be able to leave this island soon, won’t we?
 D…Do you really believe that…?

We have no choice but to believe it. At least for now.
 …………

Hey, Usami-chaaan! Didn’t you mention some “pwesents” in that TV show of yours?

Oh, that’s wight! Not that I forgot or anything, of course…

Wuv! Wuv! Here they are!
 Don’t rush! There’s enough for everyone!

……………
 What…?

Hee hee hee hee! It’s my Usami Charms!
 They speak if you push their belly!

“My name is Usami… Magical Girl Miwacle ★ Usami! I’m a tiny sweet milky girl!!”

Isn’t that cute! Wuv! Wuv!

…They’re worthless.

Awww…. Ibuki expected something good…

I’m ashamed at myself for looking forward to it!

Really? I think they’re surprisingly cute. Especially how the ears look like rabbit ears…

Well, that’s because I am a wabbit! I thought I made that vewy clear!

Nevertheless, a few seconds later every Usami strap was lying on the sand…

As expected, as soon as got them in our hands, we just threw them away.

Hey! Dirtying nature with garbage is pwohibited!

So you admit they’re garbage!

Usami picked up the straps, crestfallen, and looked at us with a sad face.

Uu… I even prepared another pwesent… But you’re all howwible children and I don’t wanna give it to you anymore…

…Oh? There’s something else?

Well, compared to the Usami Charms it’s not such a big deal, but…
 I prepared a “motive” for all of you.
 A…A motive…?

That’s wight. A “motive” for everyone to become fwiends.
 As long as we’re by the sea, I thought we should do something for the occasion.

…What is it? A welcoming party or something?

Bingo!

A festival? Is there going to be a mikoshi? How wonderful!

If you’ve ever been to a proper Japanese festival (a matsuri, if you will), you might have seen a mikoshi, which is a portable shrine carried around by local folk from a local shrine.

By the way, Sonia-san…

My lower body has gotten swollen by poison. It would be a great help if you could suck it out with your mouth!

Hey! Hanamura-kun!

Lower body. Understood!

Sonia-san! No! You don’t understand at all!

If we’re having a party on an island, there must be barbecue involved!

Ah, a campfire would be nice!

Let’s go find some tsuchinoko… and kill them!

Tsuchinoko are legendary Japanese snake-like cryptids.

Isn’t just finding them good enough?!

Everyone, I realize you all have your wishes, but since we’re at the sea…

See? This would be a great start!

…Swimming bags?

Bingo! Wuv, wuv!

Whaaaaa… That means…!

Thaaat’s wight! I prepared swimsuits for each of you! Well, they’re school swimsuits, but pwease put up with them.
 Y…You want us to wear swimsuits…? Right now…?

I am not ordering you to do anything. It’s just, I thought some of you would like to swim…
 W…Who’d ever swim in this kind of place?!
 No one would agree to just jump into the ocean when we don’t even know how we got here…!

Woohoooooooooooo!!
 …Eh?

Alright, now we’re talkin’! The weather’s great! How can we not go for a swim!

I am in full agreement.

My lower body is also in full agreement! Here, take a look!

Lower body! Understood!

I…I told you, you don’t understand!

It’s been years since I last swam in the ocean!

Riiiiight! Let’s hurry up and change!

The owners of the cheering voices quickly took their swimming suits from Usami…

…And ran to the hotel to change into them.

…What are you going to do, Hinata-kun?
 …………

I understand how you feel about this, and I don’t want to say anything out of place, but…

When you feel like it… I’d be happy if you could join us.

Saying nothing more, Komaeda also ran toward the hotel.

…………

Music fades out

There’s nothing dangerous on this island…

There’s no cause for despair…

Is that… really true?
And if it is…

Am I the only one who got it wrong?

…Hrmph.

Beautiful Ruin

Some students stayed on the beach. Maybe we’re not the only ones worried?

…Aren’t you going to swim, Togami?

What makes you think I would?

For that matter, stop pretending we can be friends. Our circumstances are completely different.
 Circumstances? What circumstances?

The reason you can’t accept our situation is simple cowardice, isn’t it?
 C…Cowardice?!

That thing Usami did not lie…
 …Don’t you think your understanding of our situation is all wrong?
 I…If that’s what you think, why aren’t you going swimming yourself?

I don’t like the sea. It’s too salty. That’s all.

How can you say that so haughtily…? It’s the kind of excuse you’d hear from a little kid!

Hey, Nanami, aren’t you going to swim?
 No… I’m so sleepy I won’t be able to endure it…
 I…I see… I guess it would be bad if you fall asleep in the middle of the ocean.
 I will drown. Probably.
 No, I think you’d definitely drown…

Still, anyone who can get so sleepy in a situation like this must have nerves of steel…

Hey, Saionji, aren’t you going to swim?
 It’s much more fun trampling crabs on the beach!
 I…I see…

Ah! I think everyone’s coming back!

On hearing Usami’s words, I turned my head…

…And saw my swimsuit-wearing classmates jumping into the sea, loudly cheering.

Beautiful Days [Piano Arrange]

Woohoooooooo!!
 It’s the ocean!
 Oh, the water is so warm and pleasant!
 Uha, it’s salty! This ocean’s undeniably salty!
 Heeeey, I bought some sunscreen from the supermarket. Anyone want me to rub them down?
 Very considerate of you! Go right ahead!
 Eh? Rubbing a muscular man…?
 Sure, why not?! My mind is open, and my interests wide!
 A little too wide, don’t you think? You’re covering every base here all by yourself!
 Hoh hoh hoh… I’ll rub you down until your body’s all wet!
 W…What’s up with all this bloodthirstiness?!

This place really does feel like a resort.
All around me, my classmates are running around in high spirits…

B…But I…

I am so happy…
 Everyone is getting along and having fun, and that makes me happy!
 I thought it would be difficult for you to get used to it, but it seems I underestimated what Super High-school Level kids can do!

This is a great start to our Heart-Thumping Field Twip!

…………

What is this…? This… indescribable feeling… like I’m an outcast…

Could it be… it was me who was wrong all along?

…………
 I… get it…
 I should just go along with it, right?
 In that case… why don’t I…?
 Right, here I come!

…Hinata-kun? What’s wrong?
 Hey! I want my swimsuit!

I get it now. I was the only one foolish enough to worry so much!

But I get it now! Let’s go!

It’s a waste not to enjoy this place!

Hey, everyone! You haven’t forgotten about me, have you?!
 Hey, wait for me! Let me in!
 …Huh?

Music stops

S…Somehow, the sky abruptly clouded over…
…Huh?

What’s… going on?!

W…What’s going on…? The sky going dark so quickly… this is not natural…!

Eh? W…What…?
 Hey, what now? What’s going on?
 What did you do?! The weather was great until a second ago!
 A…Awa…awawawa…

W…What’s going on?! What is thiiiiiiiis?!
 …Huh?
 W…Why… I didn’t do anything… and yet…
 This is impossible! This kind of thing shouldn’t happen!

…That’s when it happened.

Just when we thought we couldn’t get any more confused… it started.

Aaaa– Aaaa–! Mike check, mike check!
 Aaaa– Aaaa–! Aaaa– Aaaa–! Can you hear me? Can you hear me?

Re: Despair Syndrome

An easygoing, light voice that felt very out of place.

But… it was very different from Usami’s.

Behind this easygoing voice… I could feel a bottomless pit of malice.
The second I felt it, my body started shivering.

Upupu… Did you let one out? Did you let one out in surprise?
 …You did, didn’t you?!
 Well, then! I’ve kept you waiting far too long. Let’s end this boring opening act…
 It’s time to bring on the headliner! Please gather at Jabberwock Park, you bastards!

T…That voice…! It can’t be…!
 B…But, that’s tewwible! If I don’t do something…!

I must do something!!

Hey! Wait!

That felt… alarming.

I think… we should go too…
 …He said Jabberwock park, didn’t he? Let’s hurry.
 H…Hey! Wait!

B…But… What about the guys still swimming?

We don’t have time to wait for them to change. I have a bad feeling about this…
 …I’m going up ahead.

What the fuck was that…?
 If this turns out to be a waste of my time, I swear I’m going to cut someone…!

What the hell is going on…? What’s happening…?

A…Anyway… He said Jabberwock Park, didn’t he? 

Addendum

As you may have noticed, the game’s story picked up automatically after I talked to three of the remaining students when the rest of the group ran off to change to their swimsuits. Here’s what happens if you speak to the rest.

…………
 Don’t talk to me.
 Swimming in the ocean is… even more worthless than talking to you.
 I can’t be bothered with any of this…

I guess this is what you call a blunt person.

Huh, that’s unexpected. She stayed here too… and after all the fuss she made earlier…

Hey, Owari, aren’t you going to swim?

…Huh? ‘Course I am.
 So, why didn’t you go change to a swimsuit?

I don’t need to. It’s easier to just take off my clothes and go.
 …But, what about the swimsuit?

Hey, hey, school swimsuits are way too embarrassing! No way I’m going swimming wearing that!

I think… her priorities are a little off.

Speaking of, here goes!

True to her words, Owari started stripp… Hey!

Wait! Such shameless behavior is fowbidden! If you want to swim, wear a proper swimsuit! Pwease!

…Oh, for god’s… What a pain.

Pant… pant…

Oh? Aren’t you going to swim, Hinata-kun?
 …………

Hmmmm… What should I do for you to believe in me…?

There’s nothing you can do… how can I trust someone like you…? 

Re: Despair Syndrome

Aww! But there are still so many crabs around!
 I guess I’ll have to come back later and trample some more!

Crabs, now’s your chance to run away…!

And now’s the time to join the others at the park.

When I reached Jabberwock Park, Usami’s yells were reverberating through the air.

W…Where are you?! Where are you hiding?!
 W…Who’s hiding? Who are you talking about?

Music halts

Upupupupu!!
 …Eh?
 Hey hey! Where are you? Where?
 Ahahahahaha!!

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

Have I kept you waiting?
 It’s been a long time, hasn’t it?!
 I am Monobear! I’m this school’s headmaster!

Monobear is still voiced by former-Doraemon and Arkanoid grandmaster Nobuyo Ooyama. She is super-awesome.

And now that I’ve made my long overdue appearance, the first thing I have to say is…

That was tepid! Lukewarm! Damp!

Are you… damp too?

As I thought… it is you!
 But… why…?

Why is Monobear here?!

…Monobear?

Quiet!

I’m very angry! This tepid mood you bastards are wallowing in is making me sick!

Oy! What’s with this silly “Heart-thumping Field Trip”?!
 It’s boring! Despair-inducingly boring!

Who can get excited over something like that?! Let’s end this farce, already!

We have to respond to society’s needs, you know!
 No one wants to see a bunch of high-school students enjoy peaceful, quiet days in paradise!
 No. What everyone wants is…

Suffering. Hardship. Misery… Despair!

W…What the fuck is this stuffed toy…?! What’s this bullshit he’s spewing…?!

What… is going on? Who’s this new stuffed toy?

It’s dangewous, everyone! Pwease step back and let me handle it!
 I don’t know why Monobear is here, but as long as I have this Magical Stick…

Music stops

Aha! An opening!!

Take that! And that!
 S…Stop it…!
 Bang! Wham!!
 Kyaaaaaaaa!

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Extracurricular Lesson

Ta-daaaaaah! Flawless victory!
 Fuwaaa! My Magical Stick!!
 And now for the finishing touch…
 You’re too plain, you know? White bunnies are so out of fashion.
 Therefore, I’m going to remake you to my liking! Ahahaha!

Music stops

If you try to resist me… you’re just going to savor the sweet taste of suffering that much longer!
 Kyaaaaaaaaa!
 Stop it!!
 Hey, stand still! I can’t push this wooden rod into you if you keep moving!
 Noooooo!
 I…I said, don’t do that!

Miss Monomi’s Practice Lesson

Ta-daaaaah! Perfect!
 Wha…!
 What is this?!

What’s with this tewwible outfit!? Turn me back wight now, pwease!

Oh? You’re being a bad girl, Monomi, snapping back at your big brother’s sense of style like that.

Eh? Big bwother? Monomi?

I thought the whole premise of your character was iffy… so I decided to make you my little sister Monomi.

…It’s a retcon, you see.

Remember Doraemon? He has a little sister. Her name is, er, Dorami.

W…Why do I have to be your little sister?!

…Do you want to be my big sister? The big sister I had no contact with for years and years?

No, I just can’t see it. Little sister it is.

And therefore, Monomi! You should never disobey your big brother! I won’t let you off so easily next time!

Howawa! Even my display name says “Monomi” now?!

W…Wait! I can’t let you just make all these changes!

Ugyaaaaaaaaaaa!
 Silly sister! Did you really think you can fight your big brother?!
 It hurts! Being punched weally hurts!!

How about it?! Prepared to give up already?!

W…What’s going on…?

Two stuffed toys fighting…? This is just too much…!

Uu… If I only had my Magical Stick… I could teach this big bad Monobear a lesson…

Upupu… You shouldn’t have left me that opening… In war, a second of inattention may cost you your life.

Oy… What’s up with this puppet theater…?

D…Don’t ask me!

But… it seems something bad is taking place.

Uwah! What’s this!? What’s goin’ on?

Uu… Sniff…

Huh? Her coloring suddenly turned weird!

Weird coloring…? But it’s just the same as mine… Are you trying to hurt my feelings…?

They’re multiplying?!

W…What is going on? Who is this black and white raccoon?

I’m not a raccoon! I’m a bear! I’m Monobear!

I…I don’t really get it, but… did a new stuffed toy just appear…?
 …And why’s this new one talkin’ as well?

I told you! I’m not a stuffed toy! I’m Monobear! Hope’s Peak Academy’s headmaster!

Monobear…?

Did he say “headmaster”?!

Enough rabbiting. It’s time to bring our newest development to bear.

Your headmaster has an announcement for you bastards!

Music halts

Our “Field Trip of Mutual Killing” begins… now.

Field trip… of mutual killing…?

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Extracurricular Lesson

“Becoming friends” is way too boring a goal! Where’s the punch?! Where’s the impact?!
 No one wants to play that kind of game!

You agree, don’t you, you bastards?!

Therefore, I hereby declare this a “Field Trip of Mutual Killing”!

You bastards are the participants, of course!

M…Mutual killing…?

W…What are you talking about?! I shall positively not allow such blood-chilling developments!

Ugyaaaaaa!
 It hurts! Being kicked weally hurts!!

Honestly… Monomi is a bit of a dim child. She just doesn’t get it no matter how many times I tell her.
 But, you know, a little sister smarter than her big brother is a fantasy that only exists in manga, isn’t it?

U…Uuuu…!

Well, then. We’ve derailed a little bit, but let’s get back to my explanation of our “Field Trip of Mutual Killing”.

Uyuyuyu… W…What do you mean by “mutual killing”…?

It’s just what it says on the box! You know, “killing each other”. What could be less clear?

Killing each other, huh…

K…KILLING EACH OTHER?!

W…What’re you talkin’ about?! That’s clearly impossible!

But… getting to leave the island just because you made some friends?! It’s just so tepid and boring, don’t you think?
 Which is why I’m changing the rules!

Music stops

If you want to leave this island, please kill one of your friends!
 And then, please overcome the “school trial” successfully!!

…School trial?

Right! The school trial is the cherry on top of this “Field Trip of Mutual killing”!

Re: Despair Syndrome

In case murder occurs between you bastards…
 The survivors must participate in a school trial.
 The school trial is a face off between the “culprit” who murdered and the other, “innocent”, students.
 During the school trial, you will try to deduce who the culprit is, and then vote on who to accuse…
 If you figure it out, and vote correctly…
 The culprit will be “punished”, and the rest of you will continue on the field trip.
 But, if the culprit successfully tricks you bastards into accusing the wrong person…
 …Then the culprit gets to leave! And the rest of you will be “punished” instead!
 These are the rules of the school trial!

In other words, anyone who kills and successfully hides their guilt will be able to leave this island.
 But, if they cannot overcome the school trial, they will be “punished”…

Upupu, they’re the usual rules, so it’s easy to grasp, isn’t it?

You keep talking about being “punished”… What are you talking about…?

In simple terms… execution!!

E… execution?!

The spectacular “Punishment Time” following a school trial will be a high point of this Field Trip of Mutual Killing.
 Upupu, I can’t wait to see what kind of terrifying punishments we’ll have!
 We’ll probably have some humorous ones as well, like skewering the culprit’s head on a spit or something!

Also, I’m not fussy about the method you use to kill. There’s the classics, like beating, slashing, strangling and poisoning…
 But there’s also shooting striking running-over cooking tickling beheading drowning electrifying crashing cursing…

You are free to choose whatever method takes your fancy.
 This is all-you-can-eat murder with no time limit. A buffet of murder. An amusement park of killing.

This is what this “Field Trip of Mutual Killing” is all about!
 …!

Before I knew it, I had to seize my chest.

I felt sharp pain pulsing along with the beat of my heart, as if its blood vessels were being stabbed by thick needles.
I couldn’t really understand the condition my body was experiencing.

Don’t… fuck with us…!

H…He’s right! No one’s gonna kill anyone!

I’m not ordering anyone to kill. Whether you do or not is up to you bastards to decide.

But you should be careful! Youth goes away in a blink of the eye!
 You’ll regret it if you wait ‘til you’re in your forties before you start killing!

I…I won’t believe it. Won’t believe it. I won’t believe anything.

W…What if no one kills? Are you saying we can’t leave the island?

Who knows?

Anyway, I hope we’ll enjoy a fair-and-square Field Trip of Mutual Killing from now on.

W…Wait a second! Why do we have to kill each other, anyway?!

Isn’t it obvious? It’s because you bastards have a reason to.
 …Eh?

Wait… We’ve let you say every bit of nonsense you wished to…

I don’t like direct violence, BUT IT SEEMS IT’S OUR ONLY OPTIOOOOOOOON!

A battle, huh? Can I take this black-and-white dude out?

Anyone thinking about murder will be stopped with force.

Yeah! Our group of jocks will never accept someone saying these messed-up things!

Ah, is that how it is…? Well, I guess this was also inevitable…

If you use violence against me, I shall have to reply with some of my own.

Violence…? What do you intend to do…?!

Music fades out

O scions of the void between light and shadow, hear me! Fulfill thy ancient contract… 

Monobeasts! I bid thee rise!

Ocean Breeze Dead End

I’ve already seen several astonishing things on this island.

But this… whatever the hell this is… puts everything else to shame..

Eh… eh…?

W…Why… is the statue moving?

It’s not a statue! It’s the Monobeasts!

M…MONSTEEEEEEEEEERS!!

Aren’t you listening?! They’re Monobeasts!

People always say a big enough shock can render anyone speechless.

Well, I now know that they’re right.

Monsters suddenly appearing… it sounds like a cliché from a cartoon or a video game…
But, seeing it happen right before my eyes… I couldn’t even begin to process it.

I should’ve been afraid. My mind should’ve been racing. But instead, I just stood there, dumbfounded.

I…I don’t like this… this is all wrong… all wrong…!

Am I asleep? Is this… a bad dream…?

Kyahaha! A dream! What a dummy!

Honestly! Are you bastards still trying to explain this away as a dream or an illusion!?
 You bastards are so quick to reject anything that falls outside that tiny reference frame you call “common sense”!
 Honestly! Neanderthals were more open-minded than this!

Trying to separate everything into genres is just another disease of the modern era!

Everyone, pwease, stand back!
 I…I will pwotect you!

Even at the cost of my own life… I will pwotect you all!

Uppu.
 …Huh? What is this?
 Uppu… uppu…

Oh, I see! This is that feeling before you throw up! The nausea one gets from witnessing such a hackneyed sense of justice!

Fine! I decided! If that’s what you want, I’ll just make you an example!!

Tropical Despair

A…Ah…

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!

W…WHAT’S GOING OOOOOOOON?!

Abuabuabuabuabu… It’s just the opening… but Monomi is already dead…!

I…Is this the work of the devil…?! Or perhaps… a futuristic weapon…?!

It’s the Monobeasts! They’re terrible terrifying slaughter machines!

Monsters suddenly appeared…

Life-threatening monsters suddenly appeared, and yet not one of us tried to run away.

It wasn’t that we couldn’t accept their existence or something…
It was just… our life experience was hopelessly, woefully, insufficient.

When faced with something so bizarre, so completely unprecedented… our brains couldn’t even begin to judge how best to deal with it.

But that… could prove fatal in a situation like this.

Upupu… Yeah, that’s more like it.
 Such a fulfilling sense of despair! I guess that’s the power of making someone an example!

Ahahahahaha!!

While Monobear laughed his high-pitched laugh, we just stood frozen in place.
We were so still, it seemed as though we’d forgotten how to breathe.

…We just… kept on standing there. Dumbfounded.

We were powerless… Ants in the middle of a flood.

Well, then. It seems you bastards finally understand…

You can’t oppose me.
 If you don’t want to become seaweed in the cruel ocean, not opposing me is my absolute recommendation!
 I’d better warn you. I have no compassion, sympathy or pity. That’s because I’m a bear.
 I will not accept any excuses like “we got too excited since this is a tropical island”!

Furthermore, to celebrate the beginning of our “Field Trip of Mutual Killing”, I’ve updated your Electronic Student Handbooks.
 You’ll now find the rules to this “Field Trip of Mutual Killing” there, so please read them carefully later.

Ignorance of the rules is not an acceptable excuse… just like in any other world or society.
 Now, then…

Please enjoy this liberal, cruel, gruesome tropical island field trip!

Music fades out

After finishing his one-sided speech…
Monobear and those monsters he called “Monobeasts” disappeared.

To tell you the truth…
…I was completely exhausted.

Experiencing all these ridiculous things, one after the other…

Can we just… skip to the epilogue now…?

Re: Despair Syndrome

Everyone else was the same…

Everyone’s face was painted the same tired blue tint.

W…What’s going on here?

U…Um… Um…

I…I won’t believe it… That’s it… that’s it… Nothin’ else’s gonna happen…

I…I can handle people and animals as opponents, but…

What am I supposed to do with such ridiculously huge monsters!!

I…Impossible… W…Why are such impossible things happening…?

No, they’re not… impossible.
 Those Monobeasts are nothing more than moving machines. That stuffed toy probably is one too.
 And if that’s all they are, it means someone made and is controlling them.

So, there’s someone behind this…? Someone who put us in this ridiculous situation?

W…Who is it?! Who?!

Heh… Heh heh… It doesn’t matter…
 I…I don’ believe it, after all… There’s no way such unbelievable things are actually….

Say, aren’t you getting hungry? Don’t you think we should leave things alone for now and go eat?

…Maybe you should’ve eaten something before.

I don’t care how much you want to freak out or distract yourselves. There’s just one thing you should carve into your hearts…
 I have no idea if there’s really someone out there who is trying to trap us, but…
 The thing we should be most guarded against isn’t those ridiculous machines or whoever is operating them…
 No, more than that, we should be guarded against…

Re: Despair-Syndrome

…Ourselves. The people standing right here.
 We’ve been taken to this tropical island - a group of strangers - and ordered to kill each other…
 The atmosphere of fear and despair that has been created, and our wish to escape it…
 …That is the enemy we should be most concerned about right now.

Naturally, we looked around at each other’s faces.

As soon as I saw everyone’s expressions, it was immediately apparent.
Everyone here… agreed with Togami’s words.

They’d accepted that the possibility exists, even for them.

Only a student who kills may leave this island…
In other words, anyone who truly wants to escape… is going to have to sacrifice others.

I can’t be sure that won’t happen. No…

…Can I even be sure I won’t do it myself?

…I don’t think I can.

Faced with such a nightmarish situation, how can I say with confidence that I won’t?
The paranoia that was planted in our hearts… It wasn’t just for our classmates…

…It also made us fear ourselves.

…That’s exactly what makes it so despair-inducing.

That day wasn’t just another regular day for me…
No, it was much more significant than that.

That day taught me the meaning of the word “despair”.

…That was the beginning.

The beginning of our “Field Trip of Mutual Killing” on this tropical island.

PROLOGUE: Welcome to Dangan ☆ Island! Big Panic at the Heart-Thumping Field Trip?

Remaining students: 16

Prologue cleared

Aw, look at the achievement icon. They got that Hope Flower to bloom after all…

You got the present: Broken Stick 

Re: Despair-Syndrome

Rule no. 5
In the event of a murder in the student group, a school trial shall commence. Participation in the school trial will be mandatory.

Rule no. 6
During the school trial, students will attempt to identify the culprit. If the culprit is successfully identified, they alone shall be executed for their crime.

Rule no. 7
Failure to identify the culprit will be considered a violation of the school rules. In this event, all students except the culprit shall be executed.

Rule no. 8
A culprit who successfully hides their guilt shall be granted immunity, and shall be permitted to leave the island.

Rule no. 9
After three people or more first discover a dead body, a “body discovery announcement” shall be broadcast across the island.

Rule no. 10
It is strictly forbidden to damage any facilities on the island, including any monitors or surveillance cameras.

Rule no. 11
You may freely investigate the island. No special restrictions will be placed on your activities.

Warning
More rules may be added in the future, at the discretion of the school.

Sighing heavily, I slowly looked up from the Electronic Student Handbook…
…And saw the hotel’s courtyard, which by now had became dark.

I was sitting on a folding chair, unable to move my body.

Is he… really doing this…?

I could hardly believe this was reality.

Nevertheless, it was.

No matter how much I don’t want to believe it, I watched it happen with my own eyes, and even felt it.

…It was undeniably real.

But, it’s a reality far removed from normality.

School, studying, exams, job hunting, fights with friends, strolling, taking the train, being scolded…
That kind of normal life was worlds away now… in every sense.

…………

I suddenly looked up, and saw the night sky, packed with stars.
They looked like snowflakes that might fall down into my hands at any moment…

It was the first night I spent on the island. The night sky was completely different from the one I was used to…

It was a beautiful night.

As I stared absentmindedly at the sky, certain words floated in the back of my mind.

Music fades out

“A student who kills one of their friends can leave this island”

Ocean Breeze Dead End

After hearing these words, we stood around in that park for a while. No one said a thing…

And then, after a period of silence…

Everyone went their separate ways.

Night came soon after that. A beautiful night that could steal your breath away…

And yet… the beauty of that night terrified me.

It was just another reminder of how far we’d been taken from what should have been our lives.

Music stops

CHAPTER 1
Tropical Despair
(Ab)normal days

* ding dong ding dong *

Um, this is an announcement from Hope’s Peak Academy’s Field Trip Executive Committee…
 It is now 10PM.
 Night brings out the worst in people… If you walk outside, you may inadvertently come across a killer!
 And so, in order to quell you bastards’ worries, I have prepared separate cottages for each of you.
 You can sleep there in safety and comfort! I hope you like them!
 I strongly recommend you lock your doors up tight before going to bed.
 You never know who’s prowling about, scheming murder!
 Upupu… Bye-o-nara!

Shit… He keeps spewing such sinister words…

…………

Cottages, huh?

Let’s find our cottage.

Beautiful Ruin

This looks promising.

Re: Despair Syndrome

…………

…FUCK!

The moment I entered my cottage, I collapsed on the bed.

…Why the fuck is this happening?!

I was so troubled, I just yelled at myself…

I didn’t want to see anyone else anymore. If only I could stay here, alone, forever…

There’s not one of them that I can trust…

I mean, I don’t know anything about them, so how can I trust them?

The only one I can trust is myself… No… even that’s not true.
To be completely honest… After hearing that stupid rule about how only someone who kills can leave…

…I felt there was a part of me that would do anything in order to leave this place.

Suddenly, I heard a screaming voice.

…WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!

It was… my own voice.

…AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!

I screamed and screamed and screamed, and then I screamed some more.

…AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!

Why me…?

What did I do to deserve this?

AAAAAAAAAA……

At long last, my voice cracked, and then faded away.

All that was left was silence.

But, it wasn’t complete silence.
I could still hear the sound of the crashing waves from far away.

They seemed to be whispering, “this is no longer the world you knew”.

I was troubled once more.

Why am I here? What am I doing here?

I shut my eyes tightly.
I couldn’t really sleep… But I wanted to, even if only for a little while.

I needed a pause, a break from the madness.

And then, if the next time I open my eyes the world returns to normal, that would be wonderful.

With that faint hope burning inside my heart, I fell into light sleep…

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

Monobear Theatre

Eh, let’s make this formal…
 To you bastards who bought “Super Dangan Ronpa 2: Goodbye Despair Academy”…
 We’d like to thank you from the bottom of our hearts.
 To you bastards who borrowed a copy of “Super Dangan Ronpa 2: Goodbye Despair Academy” from a friend…
 Since friendships can be ruined over unreturned goods, we recommend you buy another copy, just in case.
 We realize it took a while to get to the main story, but…
 I dare say you shall not be disappointed from now on!
 I promise you bastards an tremendously appealing world, worthy of being called “a game to remember”!
 So please, shake and tremble with anticipation!
 Well then, sit back and enjoy our presentation to its very end. 

* ding dong ding dong *

Um, This is an announcement from Hope’s Peak Academy’s Field Trip Executive Committee…
 Good morning, you bastards! It’s another perfect tropical day!
 Let’s enjoy it for all it’s worth!

…………
 …………
 It wasn’t a dream, after all…

Just like that, all the horrible memories from yesterday came flooding back. Not a pleasant start to the day.

Re: Beautiful Morning

Anyway… I guess I’ll go check out what’s going on outside…

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

No, no, no! Don’t go out!
 …M…Monobear?! Why are you here?!

Oh, you don’t have to be so guarded! I’m here to show you something fun!
 Fun…? Fun…?!

You see, I want you to find my figurines.

I got a little carried away and made too many of them.

But, I couldn’t just throw them away, so I hid them all over the island.
 So, you see, they’re hidden in all sorts of places. Please find them all!
 W…Why the hell should I…

I’m very sorry! You don’t get veto power over this!
 I’ve hidden one in this very room, and you’re not leaving until you’ve found it!

Good luck!

Re: Beautiful Morning

Shit… that bear just does whatever he pleases…!

I guess we have no choice. Let’s start by investigating this room.

This bed… was actually pretty comfortable.

These windows let in lots of sunlight, and the view’s pretty nice…

Not that that has the slightest importance right now…

What’s this…?

They look like shelves… But somehow I feel I shouldn’t just put things on top of them…

That’s the shower room.

It’s large and easy to use, but… I probably won’t have a chance to take a nice shower after a hot day.

Not in this kind of situation…

Sharp-eyed readers may have already discovered what we’re looking for.

HIDDEN MONOBEAR GET!

MONOBEAR COINS GET!

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

Well done!
 I’ve also hidden some coins along with the figurines! Aren’t I kind?

You can exchange the coins for some cool items at the beach and in Rocketpunch Market.
 I’ve hidden more figurines elsewhere. Good luck searching!

And if you find them all…!

Re: Beautiful Morning

W…What the hell was that all about…?!

Whatever… I should just go.

But before we do that, let’s look at those shelves again.

So this is where I’m supposed to put the Monobear figurines…

He just placed that first one there without asking.

And now it’s time to go out.

GYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!
 Whoa!

…Oh, ‘s only you, Hinata. Don’t surprise me like that.
 T…That’s my line…!

B…By the way… you seen it yet?

Ahhh… It’s such a pain… What’s up with that?!
 W…What are you talking about…?

The bridges, y'know? Massive? Gates? Five of ‘em? Central Island?
 Did something happen to those bridges?

Somethin’ sure did! That’s what I’m trying to tell you!

T…Those “monsters” are standing in front of the bridges… They’re blocking them…

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

They’re not monsters, they’re Monobeasts.

GYAAAAAAAAAA! HE’S HEEEEEEEERE!!

The Monobeasts are Jabberwock Island’s guardians.
 They’re there to help me keep you bastards in check and prevent you from crossing over to the other islands.

Re: Beautiful Morning

…………
 So, they’re gatekeepers… In that case, we probably shouldn’t go near those bridges unprepared.

Uu… what a pain… Can’t take it anymore…
 H…Hey, keep it together…! Your face is going all pale…!
 I can’t… I can’t keep it together.
 How can I enjoy a tropical vacation when monsters are probably about to eat me…!

…What’s all this noise you’re making?

GYAAAAAAAAAA! SOMEONE ELSE’S HEEEEEEERE!!

I came all the way here just to call you. Don’t treat me like a monster…
 …Eh? You came to call us?

I’ve been asked to. The two of you didn’t seem like you were going to show up, so I went looking for you.
 …We’re having a meeting. We’re waiting at the hotel restaurant. Come quickly.

What’s this meeting about?

Uu… I’m out… I want nothing to do with it…

I…I’M RUNNING AWAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY!!

…Ah, hey! There’s nowhere to run to!!

My calls for him to stop were in vain. Souda ran away like a rabbit and disappeared.

…………
 Anyway, I guess I should go to the restaurant.

Off to the restaurant, then.

Huh? I was told everyone’s already at the restaurant…
 …………

I thought I could get a game in before everyone got here…
 But… I guess it’s time to go.

Games first thing in the morning… As expected from a “Super High-school Level Gamer”.

You’re late, Hinata…. and what about Souda? Weren’t the two of you together?
 He… ran off somewhere.

Huh? Where to?
 He… said he was running away, but…

…Running away…? Is there somewhere we can run away to?

He’s just a biiiiig weirdo! There’s nowhere to run away to!

We can’t blame him, though… Not after what we’ve all witnessed yesterday.

Eh? What was that? Did something happen yesterday…?
 I won’t believe anything. I mean, that couldn’t possibly have been reality.

Yep… there’s nothing to be gained by believing.

That kind of attitude may be comfortable, but…

So, why have you gathered all of us here?

We will not start talking until Souda is here.
 Ah, wait a second… So, it was you who gathered us here…?

Oui! It seems Byakuya-chan over there has something he wants to talk to everyone about!
 What… is there to talk about?

Isn’t it obvious?! It’s a strategy meeting about how to take down those monsters!

W…We can’t fight them…! They’re equipped with heavy firearms, aren’t they?!

BULLETS CANNOT PIERCE SPIRIT!

A keen observation, and well put… But let me offer some… advice… spirited one.

A truly strong person… also knows how to keep quiet.

Heeeey! Let’s just get started already!

Besides, it’s probably going to be some worthless pep-talk.

I’m not going to repeat it anymore… I will not begin talking until everyone is here.

Oh, fine! I get it! I’ll just go get him, then!
 Wait here! I’ll bring him over even if I have to tie him down!

Hoh hoh…. I’m a little jealous. I wouldn’t mind being tied up by Koizumi-san…

Maybe I should run away too… Juuuust kidding!

Disgusting…

Well, then. Until everyone is here, I suggest we make use of the time and have breakfast.

Let’s eat!

The moment he was done talking, Togami started devouring the mountain of food on the tables in front of us.

…Wait, where did all that food come from?

When I came here this morning, it was already here.

Ah, they even have shrimps and crabs!

Eating shrimps and crabs is such a paaaain! I hate them! Almost as much as I hate Tsumiki’s shady face.

A…Almost as much…? Eh? Eh?

Yep. That face right there.

W…Why are you so meeeeeeeean?!

Heeheehee… you’re probably used to it by now, aren’t you?

That’s enough.

Ah, Eureka! It was Teruteru-chan who made all this food, right!?

Hmhmhm… Unfortunately, it wasn’t me.

That is, my food couldn’t possibly be this awful.

…Awful? It’s as good as any normal food.

Normal…?
 The food I make has been called “The Tastiest Food in the World”. Compared to that, this “normal” food is utterly worthless.

The comparison itself is nonsense!!
 Comparing me to such low-level fodder? I’m quite offended!
 H…Hey, don’t get so upset…

When you actually get to try my food, you will be astounded!

What do you mean?

It won’t just be your jaw that drops!

Your underpants are gonna fall off too! Even your black thong, Pekoyama-san!

…Y…You bastard! How did you…?!

…Sounds like he hit the bullseye.

But, who if not Hanamura-san was it who made this food?

It must’ve been that Monobear-chan after all!
 …Can we really trust this food if it was made by that stuffed doll?

I am just in the process of checking for poison, to ease your minds.

The way you’re eating… is a little too… enthusiastic… for simple poison-checking…

Have I kept you waiting? I brought him!

Hey, don’t tremble like that! Aren’t you embarrassed as a man?!

S…Stop it… Don’t pull me… You’re gonna rip my sleeves off….

Kyahaha! He looks tough but he’s really a scaredy-cat!

I wonder if he’s gonna be alright… People who act like that often turn out to be the first victims, you know?

L…Let me goooooooooo!!

Music halts.

* CRAAAAAAAAAASH *

KYAAAAAAAAAA! 

KYAAAAAAAAAA!

W…What was that?!

Re: Junk Food for a Dashing Youth

Hawa… hawawawa…!
 I…I fell down and I can’t get up!
 T…That goes a bit beyond “fell down”!
 How can you fall down… and end up like that?!
 Oh, but I am happy! So happy!
 Noooo! It’s too embarrassing! S…Someone, help me!
 Squeeeee! That embarrassed face is sooo cute!
 It’s too moe! Ibuki is rendered speechless!
 A…Anyway, let’s help her!

Re: Beautiful Morning

T…Tsumiki-san… are you alright?

Uyu… I feel like my head split open… but I’m fine…

That doesn’t sound fine at all…!

But… that went far beyond being clumsy. The way you fell down takes some skill.

More importantly… everyone is here now, right? Shouldn’t we begin?
 …………

I’ve… gotten tired, you see.

She’s right. Loathe as I am to interrupt breakfast, it’s time to start this meeting.

Finally, we’re starting… That took way too long.

But… turns out we’re not starting yet. No, first we have to click on every single character again to get all the dialogue. Wish me luck!

T…“Turning out to be the first victim”… What’s up with her…?

‘Sides, if I lock myself up in my room and don’t come out, I’ll be just fine!

That’s… an even clearer mark of an early victim.

…………
 Leave me out of your little games.

…Blunt as ever.

Mmmm… So sleepy… Maybe we should start, before I… I… *yaaawn*

So, it appears Monobear-san made us some food…
 From looking at him, it did not seem that his body was suited to fine movements very well… Is this food going to be alright?

I don’t think it was Monobear himself who made that food… More likely, it was the people controlling him… right?

Tsumiki, are you alright? You sounded like you were in a lot of pain…
 Fuyu… I’m fine… I…I’m used to it…

But, thank you for worrying about me…
 Eh-heh, heh heh heh heh heh…!

Chicken… There had better be lots of chicken…
 …What are you talking about?

Poultry is ideal for muscle growth! It’s low in calories and high in protein!!
 Um… I don’t really care about that right now…

Mu… is that so…! I guess it can’t be helped!

I wish she’d keep falling down when there’s nothing there, and do other funny cartoon stuff like that!

Is she doing it on purpose, though? If so, that’s so lame.

Good mo-mo-mo-morning!

Ibuki slept soundly, despite it all!

Oopsie, that was a teeny tiny lie! Ibuki couldn’t sleep at all due to all the worrying developments!

Then don’t you think you should act a little more worried?

…………
 R…Regular underwear make it difficult to move…! I have no ulterior motives…!

Hoh hoh hoh… How about it? My prediction was spot on, wasn’t it?
 Pekoyama-san wears a black thong… Yes! I am unstoppable! I must proceed with my conquest of Sonia-san!
 …………

Sigh… Looks like he still needs supervision…

Go forth, my Four Dark Gods of Destruction… and feed!

Eat well…

Is Tsumiki-chan… alright?
 She may be a nurse, but treating her own wounds must be a pain…

…Can I eat while listening to you talking?

No.

But, but, I packed so much on my plate already!!

Hmph…
 What are you so annoyed about…?

Look at that plate of hers. It’s a mess. The way she stacks food on it is vulgar. There’s no theme or order to it at all…

And furthermore… That’s what you call “packing” your plate?

W…What did you say?!

Let me warn you. Don’t try to imitate me. Someone like you is nowhere near capable of managing that amount.
 That amount of food is possible only for one who has overcome the hardships I have…

Hardships…?

I wouldn’t think someone as self-assured as him… would use a word such as “hardship”.

Oy! Don’t expect me to stay quiet while you insult me like that!

Akane-chan, you should just step down…
 If you try to compete against him, you’re just going to have that nice figure of yours go to waste.

You fool… Do you have any idea how much money it took to get my body this way? 

And yet, you think I should lose weight?!

I have no idea what they’re even fighting about anymore…

Hey, Hinata-kun… Have you seen the new rules in the Electronic Student Handbook?
 It seems this “Field Trip of Mutual Killing” business is real.

That Monobear was serious… he really wants us to kill each other…

…………

Ah, I’m sorry…! I think my cowardice rubbed off on you…!

…How pale am I?!

On to the person we’re actually supposed to talk to.

First, I’d like to pose a question to you all.
 We’ve been ordered to kill each other by that Monobear, but…
 If we wish to live through this extraordinary ordeal, what do you think is of the utmost importance right now?

Feh, how should we know? Just hurry up and get to the point.

If you want me to get to the point, answer my question.

…Of the utmost importance? You don’t mean food and sleep, do you?

Ku… you’re forgetting bowel movements.

EAT WELL, SLEEP WELL, SHIT WELL! THERE’S YOUR ANSWER!!

…Are there any serious answers?

Are you, perhaps… talking about “bonds”?
 Bonds…?

I’ve been thinking… If all of us Super High-school Levels work together, there’s nothing we can’t do…

Together, we can give birth to hope that can overcome any despair!
 So… the thing we need most in order to escape this island… is to stick together!

Wahaha! You managed to say all that with a straight face! Aren’t you sooooo embarrassed?

Sorry, sorry… Too hammy?

Nevertheless, he probably has a point.
 Monobear designed those rules to make us paranoid and suspicious of each other - to stop us from working together.

Indeed. That is a splendid answer.
 As you say, in this kind of predicament, one can’t possibly stand alone. We must fight as a unified group…

But, the thing a group needs most is not something as naive as “bonds”.

So… what is it?

What we need most right now is a gifted leader to be in command!

I see… every team needs a captain, that much is true.

And you will be delighted to hear that I will take on this responsibility myself.
 …Huh?

And, now that we’re done with the preliminaries, we can address the main issue here.

Wait just one second!

…What’s wrong?

W…What’s wrong? You’re being way too aggressive!
 Don’t just decide you’re going to be our leader…! Why should it be you, anyway?!

Is there anyone more fit for the job than me?
 I’m the Super High-school Level Heir of the Togami family. Since my birth, I was destined to lead.

B…But…! Nevertheless, your attitude is just too aggressive!

…Koizumi-san, wait a moment.
 You’re right… Togami-kun is a little aggressive, but… considering our circumstances…
 I think… to lead in a situation like this… you’d need to be somewhat aggressive. Don’t you agree?

I… guess you’re right, but… if we’re looking for someone born to lead, what about Sonia-chan…?

No, I would not at all be fit. My role has always been more like that of a decoration.

Well, at the very least, to even volunteer to lead in a situation like ours… that counts for something, doesn’t it?

If everyone’s okay with it… I guess I am too…

So, it’s decided.
 Don’t worry. As long as I’m your leader, there will not be a single victim.

I shall lead you well. That, I promise!

Ukyaaa! That’s soooo reassuring!!

It is a little reassuring, but…

That was unexpected. I didn’t think he was the kind of person to say things like that.

I thought that, since he’s a “Super High-school Level Heir” used to living in high circles, he’d just see the rest of us as insects to be trampled.

Well, then. Let’s actually get to the main issue this time… There is something I want to show you.
 …What is it?
 It’s at Jabberwock Park, over at the central island. Come, quickly!

Without waiting for a reply, Togami stomped his way out of the restaurant.

“Aggressive” is right…
 Sigh… We probably failed in picking a leader…

The rest followed suit, and left the restaurant, complaining.

Beautiful Ruin

And we should leave too… but not before seeing what the two that are still here have to say.

Come, my Four Dark Gods of Destruction! Our destination… Jabberwock Park!

Is there nothing he won’t dramatically proclaim?

Don’t worry about me, just go ahead…! I’ll catch up in no time!
 …Saying that with that kind of face isn’t persuading me at all, you know.
 I can’t help it… When I’m hungry I can’t do anything at all…
 But I guess I’d better hurry…!

Owari pushed the entire contents of her packed plate into her mouth and gulped it down…

Om nom nom nom!
 Ahhhh, that was good.

How could you even taste anything, eating like that…?

Uu!!
 W…What’s wrong? Is something choking you?!

Dammit, this always happens. If I eat this little, I just get extra hungry…
 …………
 I guess I have no choice! Let’s get this Togami thing over with so I can go eat some more!

I guess… I should go too.

We should.

…But not before we talk to these two, who are still in the lobby!

What’s wrong? You should hurry up to the park or Togami’s gonna get mad.
 I could ask you the same question. Why are you still here?

I just have something to discuss with Sonia-chan first! You men should just go already!

Oh no, you too, Hinata-kun!?
 Huh? Me too what?

No, it’s only that Koizumi-san keeps telling me that she wants me to be the leader…

But Togami’s just too aggressive! Don’t you think so too, Hinata?

C'mon, Sonia-chan. Think about it one more time. Don’t you want to at least try?

…No, I just don’t think of myself as being a very good fit for the job.

In addition, I believe that that Togami-san, though he is aggressive, is a person possessing the qualities of a leader.

Eh? You do?

He said himself as much, did he not? He said that since his birth he was destined to lead.
 I believe he does not simply allow this destiny to carry him, but instead works hard, of his own will, to follow it.

Is not that what led him to be a “Super High-school Level Heir”?

I think… it is a very splendid thing.
 I guess you can say that…

You are… a very persuasive person, Sonia-chan.

Right, got it! Sorry for giving you trouble, Sonia-chan!

No, not at all…

Do as you see fit!

Right. Off to the park.

…But not before we talk to Souda, who’s also still at the hotel.

Hey, what are you doing? We should hurry to the pa –

UGYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA?!
 Whoa!

I think I’m getting déjà-vu.

Hinata! You ain’t gonna rest until you give me a heart attack, are ya?!
 I was just trying to talk to you. More importantly, we should go the park.

No! I’m not going to the park! I’m going back to my room! I can’t take any more of this…!

Ah! Dammit!
 Why take us to such a beautiful island and then do this to us?!
 It should'a been a carefree tropical vacation! We should'a been drinking coconut milk!!
 C…Calm down… It won’t help if you shout at me, you know?

Hinata! I’ve decided! Come with me to the beach later!
 Huh?

Coconuts, man, coconuts! I saw some big ones fall down over there!
 Couldn’t break into ‘em earlier, but… I will get my coconut milk! I’ll break those things with willpower if that’s what it takes!
 I don’t think you can break coconuts with willpower. There’s coconut milk in the supermarket, you’ll have to make do with that.

Gah! You just don’t get it! I’ve had it! I can’t rely on you at all, can I?!

He’s gone… I just hope he’s going to the park like he should.

Well, I should too.

Yes, we should.

The rumors were right, it seems.

We’re here!

Beautiful Ruin

Bah. For a bunch of thin people, you are all hopelessly slow.

I think it is you who is too fast, Togami-san.

A fatso who can move, who’d’a thought…

So, what is there to see over here?

“What is there… to see”…?

Hrmph… You… really haven’t noticed? Truly, a parade of simpletons…

Before we move on, here’s one more chance to catch up on everyone’s thoughts.

…………

I wonder if that… thing… is what he wants to show us…?

I really was beginning to think no one had noticed it.

Uyu… I think that one should eat a proper breakfast before starting the day, but…

Aah, I’m sorryyyyy… I’m being too forward again, aren’t I…

Mu…! What is that thing?! I don’t recall seeing it here yesterday…!

A…Are you kidding me? That thing’s huge! I’m… just imagining this, right?

Sigh… So hungry…

Eh? Ehhhh?
 What is this? Was it here when we were here before?

…I see. So this is what he wanted to show us.

Whooooa! W-W-W-What’s that damn thing?! A UFO, straight down from the skies!

Hmhmhm… Evil intent now fills the very earth of this place…
 Yes… this park is much improved from yesterday. Heh heh heh… most agreeable.

The morning sun adds a most pleasant atmosphere to this park… But, that said…
 The stillness of the city of Minato in the morning fits my personality much better.

I guess that thing must be what Togami-kun wants to show us…

…………
 Hmph. Small fries…

Fatsos who can move… he’s talking about piggies and cows, isn’t he?

This is just like those spot-the-difference puzzles… I’m very good at them, actually!

Time to get to business.

Music fades out

W…What is that… thing?

21 More Days

Re: Despair Syndrome

At the very center of the pleasant park, an object oozing with unpleasantness…

It looks like a clock… but it isn’t, is it?
 It seems that… it’s counting down towards something…!

Was this… here when we came to the park before?

Ku… I don’t believe I saw it back then…!

This morning… I walked around the island again and found it.
 It’s unclear exactly when it was installed here.

It must have been Monobear who installed it…

Technical note: the timer animates with flashes of random numbers when shown in background shots like this one. The fact that my still shots capture some of them is meaningless - the actual numbers that are supposed to be on the timer are more like the ones shown in the closeup before.

…What does this countdown mean?

Hmmm… Ibuki can’t even begin to guess!

Hoh hoh… it’s another inexplicable mystery to put on the pile…
 But, it has nothing to do with me. I don’t believe any of it, after all.

Could it be… a bomb of some sort?

A…A BOMB?!

If they wanted to destroy the island, they would have done so by now. Why bother with the flashy countdown?

So… what is it counting down towards?

…It’s a mystery.

Cuwioser and cuwioser…

Kya!

Miss Monomi’s Practice Lesson

Kyaaaaa!
 M…Monomi?!

H…How come you’re here?!

I was patwolling the area and heard everyone’s voices, so I came to see what was going on…

That’s not it… Didn’t Monobear kill you or something?

Oh that’s what you’re all so surpwised about!

Hee hee hee! You shouldn’t have wowwied!
 I can’t die, after all!

I see… You are an undead being resurrected from Yomi, the land of the dead…

Yomi is what the land of the dead is called in Japanese mythology. All sorts of unpleasant stuff happened there.

Ha! Shall I hunt and domesticate you, then?!

Silly Gundam. Not even in mythology has anyone ever actually escaped from Yomi who wasn’t just visiting. There was this one guy who tried to facilitate such an escape but that didn’t go entirely to plan. Although he did accidentally create several major deities in the aftermath, so it wasn’t a total wash.

Monomi is probably a mechanical stuffed doll, isn’t she? You can’t kill something that isn’t alive, can you?

Now you bring it up… I guess you’re right. Long as there’s spares, it’s all good.

A spare…? I don’t like the sound of that word!

Your timing is impeccable, though. There is something I wanted to ask you.

Answer me. What does this countdown mean?

…Hoeh? Countdown?

Howawa, are you talking about that thing?!
 …………
 U…Um… I’m vewy sorry…
 That’s… a little difficult for me to understand…

Are you telling the truth? Do you really not know…?

I…I’m sorry… I’m not pwivy to everything Monobear is doing…

You’re his little sister, and you don’t know?!

I am not my big bwother’s little sister!

Which is it? Do you accept your new setup or not?

A…Anyway… Let’s figure it out together!
 Let’s drive that meanie Monobear off this island!

If you don’t know anything about this timer, you’re useless. Go away.

Um… But, together…

Go. Away.

Kya!
 I…I’m sowwy!

Beautiful Ruin

Um… I think we treated her a little too harshly, do you not agree? I feel a bit sorry for her…

Sonia-san! May I call you Sonia-san?! I’m gonna call you Sonia-san!

…You shouldn’t sympathize with that bunny. She’s probably in cahoots with Monobear.

Let’s forget those stuffed toys… the issue of this clock is far more important, isn’t it?

It is ominous, is it not?
 How could someone install that large construction in just a single night?
 Hmmm… I can’t even imagine…

In other words, this isn’t reality! This is the ultimate proof!

But, that’s not the only thing that’s difficult to imagine…
 Everything that occurred in the last 24 hours has been a giant mess of unimaginable things…
 For example… how did the sixteen of us get to this island…?

Ocean Breeze Dead End

It’s a pain, so I decided not to think about that… Sure is a mystery.

And it’s only the first.
 Jabberwock Island is a famous resort location. How come it’s been deserted?
 There aren’t any tourists here, not to mention the local population… Is such a thing really possible?

An extravagant civilization, fated to fall into ruin… Void became existence, and existence void…

Are you saying… they’ve all been destroyed?

Civilization is much akin to fruit. Shortly after ripening it will rot, and, without fail, fall.
 Growing wealth makes fanatics of private enterprises. Bureaucrats shape the law into a tool that serves only to keep them in power.
 As a result, the weight of vested interest sinks the country into conservatism, and all attempts at reform are crushed…

…It truly is a sad state of affairs.

Um, that kinda went over my head, but I don’t think that’s what’s going on here…

It’s simple, you dummies… They used those Monobeasts and massacred eeeveryone on the island, didn’t they?

And that’s how… it became an uninhabited island?!

It’s possible, but… we don’t know for certain that’s what happened..

When all is said and done, this mystery is still a mystery.

Gugigigigigi…! Too many mysteries!!

True. Mysteries everywhere…
 So many astonishing mysteries piled together… this isn’t the work of some after-school club.
 W…What are you trying to say…?

What I’m trying to say is… this situation is, without question, the work of some kind of powerful organization.

…A powerful organization?

Monomi, Monobear, the Monobeasts… To construct sophisticated machines like these takes considerable expertise…

And not just expertise… It’s also extremely costly. The parts you need aren’t just found lying around. 

In all likelihood, the organization is operating those machines while watching us through the surveillance cameras…

Are they hiding somewhere on the island?

No… it wouldn’t make much sense for them to physically be here. They are probably somewhere else. Somewhere safe.

And where… would that be?

That, I do not know…
 In any case, it is certain that some kind of powerful organization is controlling our situation.

Hmmm… I can’t imagine any organization that could set up a situation like this…

I can. Several, in fact.
 My own family’s Togami Conglomerate. The kingdom of Novoselic… And the Kuzuryuu Family…
 It must be an organization on the same scale as these.

Eh?!

I’m used to being a suspect. Think what you want…

Wait! You and Kuzuryuu are possibilities, sure, but I won’t allow any suspicion towards Sonia-san!!
 Look at her! She’s a golden haired princess! She’s nothing like the rest of you commoners!

Yeah, yeah… why are the extras talking so much?

E…Extra?! Is she talking about me?!

Those clothes you’re wearing… are you just trying to look cool because your personality is so shallow?

Hee hee… it’s very difficult to survive when you’re employed as a disposable extra, you know.

I..If this keeps going on, she’s going to traumatize me for life!

Hey, Togami… Are you serious? Do you really think your or Sonia’s families are involved…?

…I was just giving examples. I was not trying to throw suspicion into any of us.
 But… they definitely all count as “powerful organizations”…

Even if such an organization exists… for what reason are they doing this to us?

By the way, how much longer are we going to talk about this? Why not turn the conversation into something a little more real?

Our enemy’s goals are still unclear to me… This will change as soon as we know for certain who they are.

In other words, our first priority is to investigate our captors’ identity. We shall surely also discover a means to escape if we do.
 Luckily, according to the Electronic Student Handbook, we are free to investigate this island…

Music fades out

There must be a clue here somewhere. We have no time to waste… We have to search as if our lives depend on it.

Beautiful Ruin

Absolutely! Let’s go!

…Wait, what are we looking for again?

…Akane-chan, haven’t you been listening? We’re looking for hints to the enemy’s identity.

It will not be a problem. No organization on this earth can stop me.

My Four Dark Gods of Destruction will render any who oppose me to ashes!

Whaa! Little hamsters came out of his muffler!

Heh heh. Such cute little hamsters!

Cute… little hamsters…?

…T…Thank you.

He looks quite pleased, doesn’t he!

How can he speak to Sonia-san in such a carefree way? I’ll have to give him a beating later…

Somehow… I still don’t think they’re being nervous enough, but…

I think I feel thankful for this atmosphere now. It’s strange, but I feel I can trust everybody with this job.
It must be… that self-assurance that people holding a “Super High-school Level” talent have about themselves…

But…

What about me?

Is it really okay for me to throw out my chest as one of them?

…………

Shit… I still can’t remember… I can’t remember what kind of talent I have…!

…Anyway, let me say one more thing to all of you.
 We have no time for foolish ideas such as murder. We have to concentrate on the things we must do right now.
 Let us observe, infer, perceive and understand. If that much is impossible for any of you, at the very least move your bodies.
 Most importantly, follow me. I will return us all to normality.

You understand, don’t you? This is an order from your leader.

Whaa, that was super-cool!

He lifted his right arm and it’s all wobbly! I have a nickname for him that fits perfectly – “Mr. Porkfeet!”

M…Mr. Porkfeet…?

Heh… I never thought I’d see the day when someone has the nerve to call me something like that.
 …Huh? Aren’t you mad?

It is nothing to be mad about, is it?
 She took a good look at me, and came up with a nickname that fits. There is nothing deceitful or untruthful there.

Or perhaps… it’s something I’ve longed for myself. How ironic that I noticed it only when faced with this kind of predicament…

I…don’t know why he’s so pleased by this…

Pay me no attention. I was just talking to myself.
 I…I see…

I don’t really get it… but it seems there’s more to him than being an overconfident jerk.

He managed to stay cool in this situation… Maybe I can actually rely on him…

So, just like Togami-kun said, let’s go do whatever we can without letting unneeded thoughts come into our heads!
 This is certainly a bad situation, but it’s still not the worst!

I mean, we’re not alone. We’re friends… no, more than that… We’re comrades! We’re all in this together!

You’re being lame again!

Ahaha, of course. I thought so myself.

Comrades, huh? It’s a little embarrassing, and I don’t think I’ve felt it until now, but…
Maybe, in this situation…

No, because we’re in this situation… this may be true.

We couldn’t solve the mystery of the foreboding countdown.
But we decided not to lose heart, and returned to our cottages.

I should believe in my friends… huh.

It’s still a little difficult for me, but I guess I could try doing that, even if just a little bit.

…I guess thinking even that is kind of a big step forward for me, isn’t it?

Well, then. I can’t idle around in my room all day.

I have plenty of time. I guess I should go around and speak to people.

Tutorial posted:
We’re sorry to interrupt, but it’s time for a tutorial.
During your field trip, there are time periods referred to as “Free Time”.
During Free Time, you may spend time with your fellow students and deepen the bonds between you.
Furthermore, you may give them presents to increase the goodwill they hold towards you.
You may acquire presents in the Monomono Machine at the beach, or at the vending machine in the supermarket.
When bonds get deeper, you shall be privy to special events, and additional information will be added to the student roster in your handbook.
Furthermore, if you show the Hope Shards you have gathered to Usami, you can exchange them for all kinds of useful skills.
Please do your best to deepen bonds with as many classmates as you can manage.
When you spend time with a classmate, time will also pass in the game, and you will find yourself back in your cottage.
After several Free Time periods are over, the story will continue.
By the way, you can use the bed in your cottage to skip Free Time periods.
We do not recommend that at all, but players who want to continue with the story as quickly as possible may do so.

FREE TIME START

You know what to do. Nevertheless, some notes: First, I will not be completing characters’ free time events after each chapter. Not just because (as DR1 proved) it’s a pain, but also because the game provides a much better way to get to them after you see the ending. Second, as opposed to DR1, every character here gets the exact same number of scenes. We need our first two characters to make Hope Shards with, so get voting! 

Beautiful Days [Piano Arrange]

Before we get to our Free Time partners, there are a few things to take care of.

We have Hidden Monobears to find! Can you spot it over here, in the supermarket?

There are 5 Hidden Monobears per chapter. All have the same outfit (chapter 1’s is Shell Bikini Monobear) - so I won’t show the GET screens anymore – they’re exactly the same. Some Hidden Monobears can be found in areas like the supermarket, which are always open. Others are in areas that open up later in the chapter. Some are in rooms that are only open to visit for a limited time – and if you miss them, they’re gone for good unless you replay the chapter.

Now, let’s look at the vending machine…

…Which is one of two ways to get presents. The vending machine has a limited number of set presents (most are reused from DR1). Let’s see. What should I buy?

A bottle of mineral water for one Monobear coin sounds like a good deal.

Our next destination is the airport. Can you spot what we’re after?

That baggage belt is animated, by the way. I was sorely disappointed to learn you don’t have to sharpshoot the Monobear doll. Missed opportunity.

Hidden Monobear #3. And that’s all we can get at this point. Now, let’s go to the beach.

…Where there’s a strange new tree.

I love how it stands out as a cardboard cutout in an engine in which everything looks like a cardboard cutout.

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

This is what the Monomono Machine looks like on Jabberwock Island. It works exactly the same like the one in DR1 – you put coins in, and get capsules with random presents. The more presents you have the less likely you are to get a new one, but putting in more coins increases the chance.

I will be getting presents off camera for the rest of the game. Now, let’s get on with what we’re here for.

Beautiful Days [Piano Arrange]

Of course he’s at the farm.

Hmhmhm… Be warned. You will… regret… approaching me needlessly.

What should I do? Can I really ask someone like him to hang out with me?

Ask / Go somewhere else

Ah… You persist? Do you not know fear? Or perhaps, your emotions have been stolen by Copellia?

Let us put you to the question, then, and see what we learn…

I spent some time answering Tanaka’s incomprehensible questions…

I feel we’ve grown a little closer…

Should I give him a present?

Give / Do not give

Fur Muffler: A muffler made from the fur of the dragon appearing in “The Neverending Story”. Too hot for a land of everlasting summer.

Hmm… Not a bad choice for someone such as you. I shall make good use of it.

…Should you find anything else of interest, please come and show it to me.

…I would advise against coming any closer.
 Even were I to permit your presence, I can do nothing about the sacred barrier that surrounds me…

But, I wasn’t even making advances… nor do I have any intention to.

Ah… Amusing as this is, do not think we are finished in our conversation…
 Assumed names, like your… “Hajime Hinata”… are meaningless to me. Reveal your True Name to me.
 True Name… What the hell are you talking about?

Heh. So, you are not fool enough to give that up so easily…

In that case… Name your secret identity.
 Um, I don’t really have one…

Special superpowers?
 No way I’d have any…

Feh. It is as I feared… you are a mere human.
 Hrmph. Fine. I shall simplify my conversation, so even you can follow.

Go on. Ones such as you always have your questions. I will humour them for now.

I…It’s my turn to ask…?

Ask what you will… but be prepared. The answers may be beyond you.

Many who have dwelled overlong on my power have lost their minds. I wonder what effect it will have on you?

So which is it? Does he want me to talk to him or doesn’t he…?
I would really love to just walk away, but he… he seems so eager to hear my questions…

It seems I won’t be able to get away without asking him anything…

Um… So, how do you usually spend your time?

So, you hold an interest in my way of life? Very well… I shall reveal a fragment of it to you.

I train… hunt men… synthesize spells… etcetera. I may not look it, but I am… a busy man.
 But, the thing that occupies the most of my time… is maintaining my website.
 …Eh?

It’s natural… Mages of all colors eagerly anticipate the results of my… research.
 Of course, my arcane firewall ensures only the chosen few can see it…

Unworthy ones such as yourself can see only my so-called “Bubbly Breeding Blog”.
 Um… Actually, that sounds more interesting. A blog about breeding written by a Super High-school Level Animal Breeder…

Indeed? Well, I suppose there is no harm in sending you a link… After we leave this place, of course.

So? Do you have any other questions?
 …Favorite food?

A fine question. It is, of course, the orange gourd engraved with the face of the devil.

Um… does he mean pumpkins…?

It is a magnificent foodstuff, high in nutrition and fit for any culinary purpose…

And, best of all, its seeds provide most effective sustenance for my Four Dark Gods.
 Of course, they must be carefully washed, sun-dried, peeled, and lightly roasted first…
 Oh? That must not be easy…

Does anything “easy” exist in this world?
 What use are goals, if you would abandon them because they’re not easy?

I guess… he’s right.
He’s a little… difficult to talk to… but I can understand what he’s trying to say.

Somehow… I feel like I understand Tanaka a little better. Just a little.

Hope Shard Acquired

I kept asking Tanaka questions until he was satisfied, and eventually he let me go.

It’s still light outside. I guess I have time…

I’m not the kind of person who stands around doing nothing, so I guess I should go somewhere…

What’s the goal of the powerful organization who kidnapped all of us…?
 We still don’t have nearly enough hints to start thinking about that.

What should I do? Should I ask Togami to hang out with me?

Ask / Go somewhere else

Very well. I’ve been thinking too much, and now I’m hungry.

I shall go have a light snack… Accompany me.

I spent time watching Togami consume a not very light amount of fast food.

I think we became a little closer…

Should I give him a present?

Give / Do not give

Ramune: A lemon flavored carbonated drink. Its name originates in the word ‘lemonade’. Known for being sold in bottles corked with a marble. If you take the bottle back to the Ramune shop, it can be reused.

That’s a better definition of Ramune than any I could’ve given. If you’re in Japan, go try some!

You hold peculiar objects. Crude commodities someone in my position has never laid hands on…
 My interest is piqued. I shall take it.

…………
 …Oy, Hinata. Let me ask you a single question.
 Eh? Me? Sure… I don’t mind…
 There’s been a little something troubling me for a while now. I just want to settle this problem.

Answer me! What is your body fat ratio?!
 …Huh?
 Um… I never really looked into it, so I’m not sure…

You never… looked into it…?

Are you telling me you have no interest in the amount of fat stored in your body…?!

Unbelievable… That is exactly why I hate simpletons.

Somehow… Togami’s enthusiasm seems far above normal.

He almost makes me feel I’m actually in the wrong here…

As far as I can tell by looking, it is 9 percent… no, probably even 8…

Whatever it is, it is undoubtedly in the single digits. Just barely reaching the average.

You should be thankful we’ve been taken to a tropical island. Had it been a different place, you could have frozen to death.
 O…kay…

So, do you still not remember? Do you have any inkling what your talent might be?
 Um… Not yet…

I see. Nevertheless, do not lose heart.
 Eh?

…What’s with that face?
 No, I just thought you’d be angry again…
 Feh, how tactless of you. You thought I’d get angry over something as trifling as that?
 You might say it’s the duty of people as grand as me to take care of weaklings like yourself…

Therefore… it doesn’t matter what your talent is. Not as long as I am around.

As long as Byakuya Togami is in charge, you shall be secure and safe.
 I…I see…

Somehow… his drive is overwhelming…

The Togami Conglomerate is already an international power, but it shall take an even greater leap forward under my leadership…
 I think you are very lucky to have a person of such exceptional talent among you now.

Believe in me. If you do, nothing can go wrong.

I…I don’t really get it… but that’s a hell of a lot of self-confidence…

I guess that’s what “Super High-school Level Heir” Byakuya Togami is all about…

All I ask is that you do your best to stay out of my way. Simpletons should know their place and act responsibly.
 …………
 But… if you’re troubled by anything, I won’t mind if you come to me.

Saying that, Togami gallantly left the area.
He may be incredibly pompous, but I don’t think he’s a bad guy…

I feel like I understand him… just a little.

Hope Shard Acquired

I decided to go back to my room.

Music stops

* ding-dong-ding-dong *

Eh?! That chime right now…!

Um, this is an announcement from Hope’s Peak Academy’s Field Trip Executive Committee…
 Yoohoo! It’s time for your long-awaited recreation activities!
 What kind of exciting activities await you bastards? It’s too late to – wait, that’s not it. I can’t wait to find out!
 We realize this is getting tedious, but for now - come and gather at Jabberwock Park!

Gather… at the park?
What the hell is he planning, at this time of night?

Instantly, a bad feeling took over my entire body. My skin crawled with goosebumps.

It’s forbidden to oppose Monobear… which means I just can’t ignore that announcement, right?
 In other words… I have no choice but go.
 Shit! What does he want this time?! 

Re: Despair-Syndrome

We find Peko right next to the park entrance.

Pekoyama… So you came too.

It seems we don’t have a choice. The Electronic Student Handbook explicitly prohibits opposing Monobear.

Mindless defiance will only serve to aggravate him, and that is not a good idea right now. I hope the others understand that as well.
 Yeah, that is a little worrying…
 Anyway, let us head into the park.

…I guess I should go as well.

Into the park we go.

Re: Despair Syndrome

Everyone else was already at the park when I arrived.

Late again. Do I feel the wind of cowardice blowing?

I’d like to deny that… but he’s not entirely wrong.

…In any case, it seems we are all here.

So, what’s it gonna be this time…? It really is a pain…

…In that case, you shouldn’t have come.

But… who knows what’d happen to me if I didn’t…

Oh? That is a good question. I wish you would’ve tested that for us.

Hey, that was a little too sarcastic! I bet you only came here because you’ve gotten scared yourself!

…What did you say?!

I’m saying even a high-and-mighty gangster like you can’t handle those monsters. Isn’t that right?

You… bitch!

S…Stop it, you two. We’re all friends here - we should stick together!

Aa? Friends? 

I think you’re making a big mistake, retard. When did I ever say I’m your friend?!
 …Eh?

Fine. Since there seems to be some confusion here, let me make this perfectly clear.

Music halts

…I won’t hesitate to kill any of you.

Ocean Breeze Dead End

…Excuse me?

W…What did you say just now…?

Ah? Did I not speak loudly enough? Here, let me repeat it for you. Pay attention this time.
 I. Will. Not. Hesitate. To. Kill. You.

“Kill”… Does he really mean that? He… isn’t serious… is he?

Here we go again…

…………

This isn’t very good. We should try to calm Kuzuryuu-kun down… I think.

That Kuzuryuu… He’s being foolish…!

U-u-u-u-u-u-u-m, Um um um um um um… W…W…We have to calm him down…

I think we should begin with you…

Let him say what’s on his mind… just a little longer.

I…Is he really okay with this…? I was sure Togami was going to stop him straight away…

What a showoff…
 He’s just trying to hide that he’s afraid, isn’t he? Not that he’s gotta be afraid of anything with that cute face of his…
 Owari… Please don’t say that to him directly…

What’s up with him…? What the hell is he thinking…?!

What is Kuzuryuu-kun saying…?
 …Let’s try to calm him down, for now.

K…Kill…
 Oy… The one word… The one word we needed to avoid…

I…I didn’t hear anything, right? I didn’t hear anything at all!

Hmhmhm… And so, it begins. The ugly battle between those consumed by darkness…

I wonder what happens if someone opposes Monobear…? Awwww… I wanted someone to try it out.

It would’ve been a great chance for the extras to do something useful! How unfortunate for you, big bro Souda!

Uh-oh… this’s bad, isn’t it? Such disagreeable atmosphere!

‘Kay, got it! This is where Ibuki pitches in, performs a song and raises everyone’s spirit!

…But, um, somehow she gets the feeling this isn’t really the place for that.

We… shouldn’t fight like that! We should all be friends…!

…………
 For the time being, let’s calm him down. Should the worst case come to pass, I shall…

…I really hope it doesn’t come to that.

Hey, Kuzuryuu… for the time being, how about calming down a little?

Don’t say my name so lightly!

You have no idea of the world I come from, do you?
 Where I’m from, it’s kill or be killed… Those have always been the rules I’ve had to live with.

Hell, those new rules Monobear set up are much easier for me than Monomi’s “Let’s be friends” crap!

Oh, give me a break! I’m getting really angry!

You bitch, don’t treat me like a kid!

Stop it. This petty namecalling is getting us nowhere.

Shut up! Why should I join this farce where we all pretend to be friends?!

Hey, if anyone wants to test me, just step forward. I’ll kill you here and now…

Finally, something interesting… I’ll definitely take you up on that offer…!
 W…Why are you getting all fired up from such a silly provocation?!

…Enough.

…Aa?

Kuzuryuu… I understand the way you think.

I do not mean to simply discredit that way of thinking. There was a time I thought the same way, after all…

…Are you gonna treat me like a kid too?

But, what do you think is going to happen if you recklessly kill someone? If you can’t hide your deeds, you are going to be executed.
 Or perhaps… that is what you want?

Music fades out

Is this just a roundabout way to commit suicide so you can escape our predicament? Because that… would be childish.

You… You…!!

Beautiful Ruin

Listen well! As long as we’re on this island, I will not let anyone die! Under my watch, there will be not a single victim!
 That includes you, Kuzuryuu. I will not allow you to die!

W…What’s up with you…?! Don’t act so pretentiously…!

You’re right. Had I been your average person, this would be nothing but talk.

But I am no average person. I am Byakuya Togami. And I can make it happen!

Kupiiii! This is so cool Ibuki’s going numb!!

Hoh hoh! I am in complete agreement!

I…I don’t care what you say… I’m going to do whatever I like…

Of course. You may do as you please. But, always remember the words I just said.

“I will not let anyone die”. This is the duty I charged myself with.

…Keh!
 …………

I…I think he’s pacified… somehow.

But… even though he’s a “Super High-school Level Gangster”, he couldn’t really have meant what he said… could he?

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

Um…
 Uwaaa!!
 You bastards seemed to be in the middle of something… and I couldn’t find a good moment to show myself…
 So I finally decided to appear in the middle of things!

…………

Hey, what’s with the outfit?

Ah, didn’t I say so in the announcement? This outfit is for today’s recreation time.

You don’t mean…

Yes! A manzai show fit for a tropical island!

Manzai is a famous Japanese two-man comedy act, heavily associated with Osaka and its dialect. Much like other double-act comedy from around the world, one of the comedians plays the straight man (the tsukommi), and the other the funny man (the boke), playing off each other - with jokes often ending with the tsukkomi smacking the boke on the head for saying something stupid. Although the premise itself is most certainly not a novel idea for a comedy act, the execution, timing and the jokes themselves are often incomprehensible and befuddling to foreign audiences.

W…What does Manzai have to do with tropical islands?!

But, do you not need more than one person to perform manzai?

Of course you do. This is why I have a partner all prepared.

Howawa! What’s going on?

Ah. I thought it would be something like that.

We’ve dallied enough! It’s time for the “Monobear Big Laugh Manzai Live Show”!

Eh? This is the first I’m hearing of this! I’m going to get smacked, aren’t I?!

…Gimme a break.

As indicated in the upper left corner, you can push the triangle button for some canned laughter, should you require that extra authenticity.

Miss Monomi’s Practice Lesson

Good evening! I’m Monobear!
 Um… And I’m Monomi…
 Together, we’re “The Monobearz”!
 Well then, let’s get things moving. I will now exhibit my special mind reading technique!
 Eh? You have one?!
 Let’s try it out! I’m going to guess your favorite food. Let’s see… Your favorite food is…
 You can do it! Here’s a hint: I’m a wabbit!
 Ca…
 Go on!
 …davers!
 What? I do not eat dead people!
 It’s your turn now, Monomi! Let’s hear your best killer joke!
 W…What are you talking about?! I…I’m no killer!
 Oh, you’ll be fine. It’s easy! You just have to know the secret to appeasing the God of Comedy.
 …Speaking of, which do you think is better: draining your blood while you’re still alive, or waiting until after you die?
 Why such a cruel question?!
 The God of Comedy, Miracle Rorion, will grant you the lifeblood of comedy… in return for a large amount of your blood!
 That’s howwible! Why does the God of Comedy want blood?!
 Pretty please!
 I will not be wooed by your sweet talk! I won’t let you have even a dwop of my blood!
 Monomi gets angry very quickly, doesn’t she…?
 You bastards should be careful too. Monomi is dangerous when she’s angry.
 …She’s like the tutorial boss in the first dungeon!
 That’s not menacing at all!
 Well, OK… but she’s definitely a bad girl. You see, just between you and me…

Music fades out

That Monomi… selfishly stole you bastards’ memories!
 What t'heck!
 …I mean… huh? 

Ocean Breeze Dead End

Not one of you bastards remembers how you arrived on this island, do you?
 That’s because Monomi took you bastards’ memories away!
 W…What are you saying?!
 By the way, those memories she stole? They aren’t just some silly, clichéd stuff like the details of your arrival here.
 Oh no… She took away several years you bastards spent at Hope’s Peak Academy!
 …Howawa!?
 Siiiigh… It’s such a relief to get that out in the open! Memory loss is so old fashioned, after all…
 A cheap story would shamelessly leave that revelation hanging until the endgame! Can you imagine?! Fortunately, I’m not that cowardly.
 S…Stop it, please!
 Upupupu. Surprised? You bastards aren’t actually freshmen!
 But you’ve all forgotten that, so you think you still are! Isn’t that just rotten?
 And… it’s such a familiar plot device… Is this plagiarism?! It’s not even original!!
 Y…You really can’t do this!

I won’t let you get away with this!
 Gyaaaaaaaa! That’s not what they mean by punch-line!

…………

…………

…………

…………
 …Huh?

…W…What’s going on?

Well, how was it? Did you laugh? Or perhaps, my comedy was too high-brow for you bastards?

Oy… what was that all about?

What was what all about?

Oh! You mean the “school life memories” part! That’s very simple! They were all taken away!

All taken away…?

All of our school life memories…?

What… is he saying…?

Ha ha, ha ha… huh? This can’t be, right?
 I mean, yesterday was Ibuki’s first day at Hope’s Peak Academy! And we got taken here straight after that…

Right, right… but that’s just what you were made to think.
 But the truth is, Monomi erased all of memories of your life at Hope’s Peak Academy…
 W…What the hell are you saying?! That’s impossible!

I wonder how many years it’s been? How long have you all been students there?
 …And what happened to your families and friends? That’s one more thing to be worried about, isn’t it?

A…All of our school life memories were taken?! I haven’t heard a sillier story in my life!

He’s right! No way my memory’s gone!

Y…You can’t listen to what he’s saying! Don’t listen to him!

Abuabuabu… Ibuki’s brain: over capacity…

I won’t believe such things. Everything’s fine. I don’t believe any of it…

H…He’s just lying, isn’t he? Our memory isn’t really gone…?
 E…Everyone’s probably in on it, too… You’re just trying to trick me… trying to make me look like an idiot… right?

Nope, none of this is a lie. If it was a lie, how can you explain what happened?
 The moment you stepped into Hope’s Peak Academy, every one of you bastards experienced a strange dizziness, right?
 Wha…?!
 H…How did you know that…?

Upupu… Essentially, that was the point your memories broke off.
 Every memory you bastards had since then has been extracted and deleted, until the moment you arrived on this island.
 W…What the hell…!

All at once, my mind began to go blank.

I couldn’t think well. I couldn’t even form words.

All I could do… was instinctively breathe heavily.

Did… a long time really pass since then…? 

That’s a load of shit! It’s impossible!!

And why do you think it’s impossible?

It’s just silly… Who could even believe such a thing?

Isn’t it just that you don’t want to believe?

But, have no fear! This sweet, kind Monobear is going to give you bastards your memories back!

…Hoeh?!

It’s just… that I have a condition.

That condition… you don’t mean…?

Upupu… Did you guess already?

Tropical Despair

That’s right, I want mutual killing out of you bastards!
 This is my one and only non-negotiable condition!

Howawa?!

You’re dying to know, aren’t you? You bastards want to remember your lost school life, don’t you?

If so, kill kill kill! Make it a murder to remember!

Hey, asshole! I’ve let you say whatever’s on your mind for way too long!

Oh? Why so angry? All I did was give you a motive out of the kindness of my heart.
 I mean, before now you bastards were too scared to kill, weren’t you?

Well, I guess that’s natural.
 Humans come out of the womb bawling. You’re cowards from the moment you’re born.

And that’s why I had to give you bastards a motive. You needed some justification in order to kill.

G…Give me a break…!
 Do you really think anyone here is going to kill just because you told us such a delusional story?

I don’t even believe your stupid story about a memory loss anyway!

Maybe you don’t. But can you be certain there isn’t someone among you who does?

W…What do you mean…?!

You know nothing about each other. And that’s why…

Music halts

…You still haven’t even noticed the traitor among your ranks!
 …Huh?

Ocean Breeze Dead End

There are sixteen of you bastards here, right?
 But, there were only supposed to be fifteen Hope’s Peak Academy students coming to this island! Isn’t that weird?

I’ve got it! It means one of you is a traitor, whose identity is unknown even to me!
 …Or something.

W…What the fuck are you saying? What’s this talk about a traitor?!

…It is nonsense. He is just trying to confuse us.

But… can you really be sure of that?
 You know nothing about each other, after all. You don’t know each other’s true natures…

Would any of you even notice if one of you was scheming murder? I don’t think you would! Do you?!
 …………

And just like that, we all went quiet again.
I wanted someone… anyone… to say something. To argue back against him.

But no one did. We just stood there, in silence.

You see, if I’m right and there really is a traitor among you, that would be a terrible thing.
 Don’t you want to get revenge on the imposter who’s trying to trick you? Are you really going to let them get away with this?

Of course not! Your only choice is to attack first! Whoever’s the fastest is going to win this lottery!

If you want to survive, you’ll have to kill before you get killed…

Ahahahaha!

…………

Even after Monobear’s high-pitched laugh had faded, we continued standing in silence for a while.

These circumstances… this situation… this event… this calamity… this nightmare… this hell… this despair…

We were all consumed by it.

Um… Is one of us really a traitor…?

It isn’t me! I may look suspicious, but… I swear, it isn’t me!

WHO IS IT?! TELL US RIGHT NOW! THE MORE YOU POSTPONE IT THE MORE YOU’LL REGRET IT!

…Stop it. There is probably no traitor among us.

…Why would there be? We shouldn’t even have this silly discussion.

H…He’s right… I don’t believe any of it…
 Why should I believe it? There’s no evidence for any of it…

…Oy, Monomi. You can probably answer our questions.

…Hoeh?!

Are Monobear’s words the truth? Our memory loss… and the traitor…?

Um… You see…
 If you dwell too much on the past… you’ll lose sight of the future… So…

…Fix your eyes only on the future! L…Let’s all do our best to live on!!

Re: Despair Syndrome

Ah, she ran away!

Feh. Worthless rabbit.
 Memory loss… traitors… that’s straight out of fairy tales.

Don’t try to mess with me, retards!!

He was right… this was just like in a story. As far from reality as any of us had ever been…
Memory loss? All memories of our school life? A traitor among us?

But… more than that, Monobear’s words pierced my heart.

“You don’t know eachother’s true natures…”

Music fades out

* ding dong ding dong *

Um, This is an announcement from Hope’s Peak Academy’s Field Trip Executive Committee…
 It is now 10pm.
 Please rest peacefully, along with the soothing sound of the waves.
 Well then, pleasant dreams. Goodnight…

Re: Despair Syndrome

…………
 …Hey, what are we going to do now?

We should disperse for the night.
 Let us have a good night of sleep… and clear our heads.

…………
 I guess… you’re right.

And if any of you are getting any absurd ideas… abandon them. This is an order from your leader.
 Tomorrow morning… we will all gather at the restaurant, right after Monobear’s announcement.

Monobear’s really let the cat out of the frying pan and into the fire, hasn’t he?

Yeah, he… what? I think you’ve gotten some metaphors mixed up there…

Give her a break… she’s a foreigner…

I don’t really remember what happened after that. The next time I knew what was going on…

Re: Despair-Syndrome

…I was sitting on the bed in my cottage, my head hanging down.

…………
 …………

And as I sat alone in my room, an incomprehensible thought occurred to me…

A traitor among our ranks…

It has to be… someone who is different from the others, right?

Perhaps… someone who can’t explain - who can’t even remember - their own special talent?

W…What the hell… That’s just silly…

I discarded that silly idea, and collapsed into bed.

Then, I closed my eyes.
Sleep was my only possible escape from this bizarre situation.

…………

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

MONOBEAR THEATER

There’s a famous phrase, going “there is no such word as impossible in my dictionary”.
 But… isn’t using a word that isn’t in your own dictionary the very definition of “impossible”?
 And so, since you made that impossibility into a possibility…
 That’s further proof that you’re a person for whom nothing is impossible! 

* ding dong ding dong *

Um, This is an announcement from Hope’s Peak Academy’s Field Trip Executive Committee…
 Good morning, you bastards! It’s another perfect tropical day!
 Let’s enjoy it for all it’s worth!

…Ugh…

I rose up from the bed, slowly, clumsily.
My entire body felt heavy, and my head even more so.

Nevertheless, I felt much better than last night.

We said we’d all gather at the restaurant, didn’t we…

We did. So, let’s head out.

Re: Beautiful Morning

Ah, someone to talk to already.

Not everyone can be as strong in their convictions as Togami-kun…
 I’ve never really consciously felt like I have any massive hurdles to challenge and overcome…
 But then… it isn’t like I’ve been running away from reality, either…
 It’s like… I just… lived… without being truly aware of any of those possibilities.
 And yet, I managed to live so far.
 But now… Now, things are different.

Ah, I’m sorry. I’m doing nothing but ramble and complain…
 No, I get it… I think I feel the same way.

…But, now that I’m talking to you, Hinata-kun, my conviction is a little stronger…
 A single person can’t do anything significant, and that’s exactly why I think we have to help each other.
 At the same time… I still think I have to get stronger myself.
 This is a sort of trial we have to pass in order to obtain hope…
 Um… You may be right…
 Well, I’m going up ahead. See you at the restaurant.

He’s as lucid as ever, I see.

Let’s move on toward our destination.

G…Good morning…
 Oh, ‘morning.

Eh…. Ehhhhhhhhh!

W…What’s wrong now? All I said was “morning”…

This is the first time someone ever greeted me back! I’m so moved…!
 U…Um, do you mind if we do it one more time?

Good morning…!
 Um… 'morning…?

Eh-heh, heh heh heh heh…!

What kind of life did this girl have until now…?

Sooo sleepy…
 Mr. Porkfeet shouldn’t just decide things on his own. I wanted to sleep in!
 But this way, we get to eat breakfast, and meet everyone. Isn’t that better?

Eh? Why can’t I just have candy in my room for breakfast?

U…Um…
 It’s not very healthy to have sweets for breakfast… The guideline allowances of sugar and fat are only-

Hey, who even asked you? By the way, don’t ever talk to me without being prompted to again.

Hawa, hawawawa! I’m sorry…!

Ugh. Why do I have to listen to every ugly person mooing in my ears first thing in the morning… I feel sick.

Looks like Saionji’s gone to have a Super High-school Level Sulk…

Ah, good morning, Hinata.
 Ah. ‘Morning.

What’s up with that depressed face?

…Though… I’m not exactly one to talk, am I? I’ve been so worried I couldn’t even sleep well…
 I just tossed and turned all night, thinking about everything. Couldn’t reach any answers, though…

Sigh… We need a diversion.
 Maybe we can get some tea and some candy, and sit down and have a nice conversation.

And I’m sure you don’t need to be told this is a girls-only event! Don’t think you can just barge in!

Ah, the legendary Girls Talk session. This is the undiscovered country for guys like me…

I’m going in. Don’t make us wait too long.

I’m trying not to, but everyone’s just standing around, waiting for me to talk to them!

‘Eatings!
 …What?

We’re having a breakfast meeting, so we’ll be greeting and eating, right?
 So Ibuki’s gonna save time by turning “eating” into a greeting so we can greet while we eat! Isn’t that neat!?

This is gonna catch on, big time! Ibuki’s gonna make sure it does! It’s gonna be sweet!

‘Eatings, one and all!
 Ibuki’s off, to teach it to the world! Til’ next we meet!

But… even if it does catch on, it’s just going to be limited to the sixteen of us, isn’t it?

'Morning, Nanami.
 …………
 …………
 …………

'Morning.
 …Why such a long pause?

I was in the middle of scoring a huge chain. It wasn’t a good time to answer.

Scoring…? What is she talking about?

It’s almost time. I’m going up.

…Why do I get the feeling I interrupted her in the middle of something important?

When I got to the restaurant, there were already several people there.

…………

…………

…………

But… no one said a word.

One by one the rest of my classmates entered, until…

…Is everyone here?

…Huh? I think Kuzuryuu-kun is still missing…

Uh-oh! I guess he’s already been killed…

Gyaa?! Someone finally died?!

You should not jump to conclusions like this… I just saw him outside. He is not dead.
 …However, he told me he is not coming to breakfast.

What the hell’s wrong with him? Now’s not the time for that lone-wolf act of his…

M…Maybe… he’s spendin’ his time schemin’ up ways to kill someone…

Souda-san! To so readily suspect a friend is most uncouth!

But the guy’s a gangster, ain’ he? You understand what that word means, right?! Ja-pa-nese Ya-ku-za!

I suspect he won’t come even if we call him. That’s just the kind of man he is…

I guess I have no choice… We’ll have our discussion without him. Someone can tell him what we decided later.
 Discussion…? What kind of discussion?

You will be happy to hear I have decided to throw a party this evening.

…Huh?

A…A…A party?

That’s right. A grand all-night party, all the way through the morning.

An all-night course?!

I should warn you - absence is prohibited. This is a party with compulsory attendance.

H…Hey… What’re we having a party for, at a time like this…?!

This is the perfect time for a party.

Are you sure…? I don’t see it… Is this really the time for a party? Or the place?

…Um, well…
 I think I’m in favor… I mean, we’re all naturally down right now…

So, I think this is the perfect time to have an event where we can get to know each other better and deepen our friendship.

Was that what you were thinking, Togami-kun? Is that why you suggested a party?

…My reasons do not matter.
 In any case… It is necessary that we all be gathered at a single location tonight.

…Those words bear the stench of concealed purpose… do they not?

This is already a done deal. We are having a party tonight!

B…But… Why does it have to be all night…?

…If it didn’t, I wouldn’t have made it that way.

I…I’m sorry! I’m sorry for being so pushy!

Knowing when to switch oneself off and on is a key skill in life… And we could all use a distraction. 

…Let’s do it!

Ah, if we are, indeed, doing this, how about you let me handle the food?

Where are we going to have it? Is this restaurant good enough?

No… This place is no good… We want a place that isn’t so accessible from outside…
 …Somewhere we can keep that Monobear out of. A closed space.

…Closed space?

If the restaurant will not suffice then neither will the lobby. It, too, is… open.

Nor can we use someone’s cottage, then… This many of us would get cramped together in that small a space…

Cramped together, eh? I guess a cottage it is! Ah, I sure am lucky…

This is so much easier than dressing up as a woman and sneaking into the women-only car on the train…

Japan is one of a few countries that sets aside special cars on trains for the exclusive use of women (usually only in major lines during rush hour) to combat the phenomenon of people like Hanamura taking advantage of the cramped environment to touch and grope. Your OP once entered one of those by accident, and it took about a minute of intense glaring (being a foreigner, not an unusual situation even under normal conditions) until he got that something was wrong.

Something else, you are… ‘There anything you don’t see as an opportunity for perversion?

Hoh hoh… I may be a pervert, but I’m the lovable type of pervert that people just can’t bring themselves to hate!

Yeah, your belief in yourself is just charming…

How about we use the old lodge that’s off to the side of the hotel grounds?

…That shabby lodge?

Well, if we clean it properly, I think we can get it in good condition.
 It certainly fits the closed space requirement. I’d even say it’s the only place that does.

But, didn’t Monomi forbid us to enter that lodge?
 She said something about a planned reconstruction.

Miss Monomi’s Practice Lesson

I heard your entire conversation! I heard it with my own ears!!

Heh heh! I am vewy proud of my ears! I’m a wabbit, you know!

I see. So you have to depend on your ears. That is most certainly strange.

Hoeh?!

I mean, what are those surveillance cameras for? Are they for Monobear’s exclusive use?

…………

Ah! She seems to have gotten depressed!

Whatever… It seems our problem is solved, one way or another.

The old lodge… You came here to tell us about it, didn’t you?!

Yep! If it means stwengthening the bonds of your fwiendship, I will gladly lend you my assistance!

And so, I hereby gwant you permission to use the old lodge! I’m going to help too, so let’s enjoy a fun party together!

Oh, that’s impossible! I mean, you’re so lame!

You should probably stay away from mirrors. You might actually die if you saw what you look like right now.

Such warm words of kindness… I think I’m gonna… cwy…

Re: Beautiful Morning

Um… So, are we settled on the old lodge?

But, what are we going to do about the preparations? That building’s been abandoned - we’ll probably need to clean it up…

This will be the first time I busy myself with hands-on activities such as cleaning! This is hella exciting!

No, no, no! A princess shouldn’t get her hands dirty!

I don’t wanna clean!

What’s that? We have no volunteers?

In that case, how about we draw lots?
 Draw lots…?

Actually, I, ah… I thought something like that might happen, so I prepared some in advance.

What, exactly, did he imagine would happen…? And who would even make that kind of thing in the first place…?

How about… cleaning duty goes to the person who pulls the chopstick with the red mark on it?
 That’s fair, isn’t it?

It is decided! Let us entrust our fate… to fate itself!

Whatever the result is, no hard feelings, right?

Everyone took turns pulling chopsticks from Komaeda’s hand.

Then, finally, the result was revealed…

Huh? It’s me?!
 Ha ha… So much for “Super High-school Level Good Luck”…

Nah… we have to play the cards we’re dealt…

So, leave the cleaning to me. I’m pretty good at it, actually!

Ah, I thought you would be. From the moment I first saw you, I thought you’d make a great househusband.

…I’ll… take that as a compliment.

And remember, leave the cooking to me!
 Right! First, I have to procure the ingredients, and then start preparing the meal at the old lodge.

I’ll show you the fabulousness that is Teruteru Hanamura! I’m going to prepare the world’s tastiest party feast for you tonight!

I should probably go and inform Kuzuryuu about this party.

Let us disperse for now. We will gather at the old lodge after Monobear’s evening announcement.

After leaving the restaurant, I decided to go back to my cottage.

Beautiful Ruin

There’s still a lot of time until the party… I can’t just stay in my room all day.

I guess I should make use of the time and go find someone to talk to.

* FREE TIME START *

We’re going to try something new this time - instead of flooding the thread with hundreds of short contentless posts, I’ve set up an off-site poll. Please be nice, and don’t cheat! Two choices per vote, one vote per person. If you have something worthwhile to say about your choices, you are welcome to post in the thread (for example, HelloWinter is more than welcome to influence the results with fanart again should she choose to. No pressure!), but don’t simply announce your votes here without adding something interesting about them. 

Re: Beautiful Morning

We had a landslide winner with Komaeda in the latest vote. We know where he probably is - he did lose that lottery.

Ah, Hinata-kun…

I hate to turn you down when you came all the way here to see me… but I have my hands full with cleaning right now.

I have to finish before the party starts, you see… See you in the evening.

How unfortunate. Luckily, we have a tie for second place!

I still can’t believe that many people didn’t predict this would happen.

* ding-dong *

Who is it?

…

How unfortunate… I so wanted to be on cleaning duty…

Why cannot a princess clean? It makes no sense!

What should I do? Should I spend time with Sonia?

Spend time / Go somewhere else

Very well then! I’ll just go ahead and clean anyway! Come, let us do it together!

I spent time cleaning the hotel with Sonia.

Even though I felt humbled, I think we got a little closer…

Should I give her a present?

Give / Do not give

Fan-tasmagoria: A folding fan passed around since the Heian period. It is told any person holding it can communicate with spirits.

I may really have that?

Thank you very much. You are most kind, Hinata-san.

Despite it all… this island truly is a magnificent place.

The weather is calm and the sea blue. It’s as though we were staying in a resort!
 I guess that’s true, but…

Oh? Have I said something strange?
 No… I just think you’re pretty calm, considering.
 Don’t you feel anxious about our situation?

Of course I do. That, and anger too.
 I have had it! Enough tomfoolery!

Tom who…?

But, what comes of it depends on us alone. Were we to eschew this mutual killing, then all would be fine.
 I guess that’s a fair argument… but…
 I came here originally in order to further my studies of your country.
 It might have been different were this my own country, but for me, this is a foreign land.

I do not plan on killing anyone… nor have I any interest in meekly being killed!

That’s a… strangely dangerous thing to say.

Speaking of, she said it might have been different if it was her own country… Would it?

In any case, let us forget about mutual killing, and work hard together so we can quickly return home.
 Hinata-san, if you should come across a good idea, let me hear it, please. I shall work hard and think of one too!
 Yeah… of course.
 Somehow… I feel a little more positive when speaking to you.
 Hehe… It is an honour.

There is no need for formality! Raise your head!

This is absurd, and yet somehow appropriate… She truly is a princess, I guess.

Ah, speaking of, what kind of a place is your country?

I think its name was… Um…

Novoselic / Novitalic / Novosetalic

The kingdom of Novoselic, was it?

Hehe. You sound as though you had difficulty remembering that.
 Well… I haven’t really heard anything about that country before…
 That is only natural. It is easy to miss on a map of the world.

My Kingdom of Novoselic is a very small autocratic country.
 Our population is small, but since our economy is successful, it is by no means poor.
 The royal family is of an old lineage, and has long protected the country and its people from invasion by larger countries.
 Because of that, the people have deep trust in their monarchs.

Oh, I almost forgot! Our secret specialities are wine and chocolate!
 Huh… That really does sound like a “kingdom”.
 So… as a princess, do you live in a castle or something?

You betcha! Novoselic’s royal castle has stood strong for a thousand years.
 Though it may be a small, old castle, it is a wonderful historical building.

There are secret catacombs you can get lost in and forbidden towers too, of course!
 I thought so! These kind of things are necessary!

Um… May I inquire some things of you as well?
 Oh? If it’s something I know the answer to, then sure.
 Hinata-san, for whom are you aiming at first, and to whom do you plan to switch later?
 …Excuse me?

I mean, our situation feels just like “The Story of Seven Men and Women”!
 The only way it can go is for us to sway back and forth, and eventually do some swapping! That is the established trope, is it not?
 Um, wait a second… What are you talking about?

Don’t tell me… you’ve never heard of it?! It is a legendary Japanese TV drama!

The first season was a Summer Story, and when the second Fall Story season came along I couldn’t believe what they were doing!
 I couldn’t wait to see where the story was going… I was in ecstasy through the entire series!

Oh, how I cried for Momoko’s heart at that one time…

Kyaaaaaa! So intense!

I usually don’t go into references that go over the head of the average Japanese reader, but I’ll make an exception here.
The Summer Story of Seven Men and Women was a romantic TV drama that aired in 1986. It proved popular enough to warrant a second season (a rare thing in the Japanese TV drama world), titled The Fall Story of Seven Men and Women, in 1987. Today, it is mostly remembered for leading to the real life celebrity marriage of the actors playing the male and female leads (the female being the aforementioned Momoko) – followed by the birth of a strangely named girl (a popular model herself today) and then a celebrity divorce.
Now, don’t say I don’t suffer for my art. I tracked down the first episode of the series and watched it to see what Sonia is making such a fuss about. I have just two takeaways from the ordeal: 1. Hairstyles in ‘80s Japan were just as ridiculous as they were in the west, and 2. It is very bizarre to see Japanese people using landline phones.

…After that, I had to listen to Sonia talk about Japanese TV dramas some more.

At the very least, I came to understand how passionate a fan of them she is.

Hope shard acquired

After I finally managed to put an end to Sonia’s endless talk, I left her room.

There’s still time…

It’s not like me to idle around doing nothing. I should go somewhere…

It may be just a byproduct of holding a party, but I am anxious to try Hanamura’s cooking.
 I wonder how this “Super High-school Level Cook” will compare to the Togami Conglomerate’s private chef…

What should I do? Should I spend time with Togami?

Spend time / Go somewhere else

Oh? Are you curious about the food our chef makes? Very well, I shall tell you all about it.

I listened to Togami talk about super-luxurious feasts for a long time.

It seems we became a little closer.

Should I give him a present?

Give / Do not give

Laserice HG: A cooking machine that can make “Pho” out of leftover rice. Responsible for the rise in the popularity of Vietnamese food.

It is a trifling gift, but I shall take it.
 I look forward to seeing what you come up with next…

A chicken in the hand is worth more than beef in the refrigerator…
 …Huh?
 It is a German saying.
 It means it is better to have something inferior close by than something better far away.

But, is chicken truly inferior to beef?
 Aren’t there times when you’d much rather eat fried chicken than steak?
 Sure there are, but… what, exactly, are we talking about?

And are you sure that’s actually a German saying?

And why, if you’re doing such a comparison at all, are you leaving pork out of the equation?
 Is pork that unappealing for the German people?

No… that is probably not it.
 Germany brings to mind sausages… and sausages bring to mind pork.

What does it mean?! Is there a conspiracy behind this?!

H…He seems hostile all of a sudden.

Hinata, I shall test your knowledge now.
 Do you know what type of meat is most efficient for energy…?

The meat that holds the largest concentration of Vitamin B1! That can turn sugar into energy! What is it?!

Togami is… frightening in his seriousness…

This isn’t good… how should I answer…?

Beef / Chicken / Pork

Um… is it pork?

Correct. It has about 10 times the B1 content of other meats.

Is that clear? 10 times!
 Y…Yeah, it’s clear… But what’s still unclear is what you’re talking about.

There is just one thing I want to say.
 …Hinata, become my assistant.
 …Huh?

The situation we have gotten involved with on this island is more complicated than I first thought.
 Even the help of a simpleton such as yourself… is better than no help at all.
 But… I can’t even remember everything about myself…
 You don’t even know if my talent is something that can help you or not, do you?
 Memories… You’re troubled because of your memories, are you…?
 Memories… do not mean much.
 …Eh?

Even without your memories, you are still yourself, are you not? You can still live your own life.
 That is enough. Simply being yourself is enough.

I… believe in the possibilities lying deep inside the person who is standing here before me.
 T…Togami… Are you alright?
 Furthermore… What good is one’s past?

Even I… was once powerless. But now… now is different.
 Throw away your past self. It means nothing.

Powerless…? What is he talking about? Was there really a time when Togami was powerless?

…Anyway, think about what I have asked.

But, more importantly, Hinata…

Which do you prefer, chicken or beef?

After that, Togami continued lecturing me about meat until he got heartburn…

But, really… I wonder what could have happened in his past…?

Hope shard acquired

Reached level 10

I said goodbye to Togami, and returned to my cottage.

Music stops

* ding dong ding dong *

Um, This is an announcement from Hope’s Peak Academy’s Field Trip Executive Committee…
 It is now 10pm.
 Please rest peacefully, along with the soothing sound of the waves.
 Well then, pleasant dreams. Goodnight…

He may have said “Goodnight”, but that just means today’s about to get started…

Right. We said we’d gather at the old lodge, didn’t we? 

Beautiful Ruin

PARTY TIME!

I have a feeling it’ll be a party… to die for.

But, as usual, they won’t let us just go straight to the party without anyone getting in our way.

Oh? Hajime-chan, could you possibly be on your way to the party?
 Of course I am. Where else would I be going? In fact, why are you still here, Mioda?

Ibuki’s getting in some light exercise, to make the food taste even better later!
 Can’t wait to try Teruteru-chan’s cooking!
 I guess… He is a “Super High-school Level Cook”, after all.

It’s almost time for the party… Eh-heh-heh, I’m looking forward to it…

Ah, I won’t get in anyone’s way, I promise…! So… can I p…please come too…?
 Don’t worry about things like that. It’s fine, just try to enjoy yourself!

O…Okay…!

Sigh…
 I informed Kuzuryuu about the party… but it doesn’t appear as though he plans to attend.

PARTY TIME!

So this is the old lodge… Compared to the rest of the hotel, it really is shabby.

You came…

Well, then, hold out your arms and stand facing me.
 Hold out my arms…? Why should I do that?

I have to do a body check, of course.
 A b…body check?!
 As long as I am hosting this party, you should expect flawless security.

I made you a promise, didn’t I? I shall not accept even a single victim…!
 Y…Yeah, got it…

I reluctantly held out my arms and stood facing forward.

Togami carefully inspected my body, top to bottom…

…It seems you are not carrying any dangerous items.
 O…Of course I’m not!

…Very well. You may step inside.
 …Hm?

Suddenly, I noticed a strange item next to Togami’s feet.

…Duralumin cases?

I found them at the supermarket.
 I am using one of them to safely store any dangerous items I find.
 The other one…

Well… it’s in case there’s trouble.
 …Trouble?

…It shouldn’t worry you.
 The others are already gathered inside, in the main hall. Go join them.

Immediately after saying that, Togami turned his back to me.

It seems… he didn’t want to talk anymore.

But… this is way too much for “just in case” precautions. I mean, he went as far as giving me a body check…

…………

The lodge is another mini 3D environment, and as such gets its own map:

I know we’ve been told to go straight to the main hall, but as long as we’re here, let’s see what else is around.

Just around the corner from the entrance we find two doors. Let’s try the first one.

An office of some sort. And… can you spot it?

I totally spotted it.

Hidden Monobear #4 added to our collection! Nothing else here, so let’s go on to the second door in the corridor.

This is the toilet… It seems to be unisex.

I don’t really need to go right now. I should head to the main hall.

Not yet, Hinata!

That’s some, uh, nice wallpaper there.

There is a sublime odor drifting from the kitchen… It sure stirs up one’s appetite.

But, Togami is going to make a fuss if I take a detour. You should probably head to the main hall as well.

Yeah, yeah, sure. Moving on forward to find another door to the left.

Hey, that’s-

And what might you be doing here in my castle? Don’t worry, dinner is right on schedule.
 Or maybe… you also want to be cooked by me?
 Huh? What the hell does that mean?

Hoh hoh hoh hoh…

I think we’d better leave.

Those windows…

Turning the corner, we finally see the end of the corridor ahead.

So this is what a “lodge” feels like… The many gaps in the wooden floor are there because of its age, are they not?

I shall be ever mindful of where I step! It will be just like an adventure!

I guess for a princess, every mundane thing is a fresh experience…

There’s one last door at the end of this corridor, next to where Sonia is standing.

Bah. There aren’t even any Hidden Monobears here. Back to the corridor, and we can finally go to our actual destination.

Oh, Hinata-kun! So, what do you think?
 What do I think about what?
 About the way I decorated this hall for the party, of course! I even spread out a carpet.
 …You brought in this carpet?

Yeah, I got it at the supermarket.

Is there anything that supermarket doesn’t carry…?

I wanted to cover the entire floor, but the carpet wasn’t large enough.

This entire place was full of dust and cobwebs when I got here this morning, you know?
 It took me the entire day just to clean this hall.

I don’t think I could bear cleaning for an entire day, had it been me…

That’s quite a feat, Komaeda…

…Yeah. Thank you.

And now, time to be polite and make the rounds.

I hate to say this after Komaeda did his best to clean the place, but true to its name, this old lodge is in tatters.
 There’s a limit to how much you can clean a place up…
 Look at the floor over here, for example.

See how the wood is rotten and has shrunk down? There are so many gaps it’s dangerous to walk on, don’t you think?
 It sure is…

Well, I guess since most of the floor is covered with a carpet, it’s not really a problem…

Maybe we should warn Mikan-chan to be extra careful, though.
 She is the type of person who falls down even when there’s nothing there…

…………
 …I’m worried Monobear is going to crash this party.
 Yeah, I don’t think he’d just leave us alone if he heard we’re having a party…

…Or if he saw you. You know. On the cameras.

We have to do something.
 …Yeah, I guess we do.

I wonder if someone’s going to do something…
 Who knows…?

Who knows…
 …………

I… don’t think this conversation really meshed.

Big Bro Togami said something about a body check and touched me all over!
 That’s sexual harassment!
 I…I don’t think so… He did the same thing to the guys.

Did he? I get the feeling he was extra sticky when he did me.
 Eh…?

Kyahaha! There’s a big demand for someone who looks like me, you know.

She’s… joking, right?

For so common a lifeform, the pretentious one is quite adept in the culinary arts…
 Of course, such mortal cuisine cannot possibly compare to the extra-dimensional delicacies I have sampled in my travels…

Ah, that was gross…
 Gettin’ touched all over by a man… gives me the creeps, it does…
 Oh, you mean Togami’s body check?

And that’s not all. He found this wrench - I keep it in my pocket - and he went mental. His face was like a demon’s.
 Honestly… what a pain…
 You probably shouldn’t have brought a wrench in the first place, you know.

I just… I feel a bit calmer when I carry one. Found this one at the airport, reckoned I’d hang onto it, y’know?
 Well, right now, Togami’s got it, in that duralumin case of his.

Sigh… Woe is me.

aaaaaaaa…
 Hey… Owari?
 aaaaaaaa…

It’s no use… she’s completely focused on the food…

We’re done with the people, so let’s check the environment.

There’s a lot of delicious-looking food on the table… Meat and fish… there’s something for everyone.

…Steel plates?
 Now that I think about it… there were some in the corridor as well.
 But, why are there still plates attached to the wall?

…A valiant effort… but short of the mark.
 …Eh?

“Star-destroyer Grey Fox” Sun-D of the Four Dark Gods of Destructions has seen beyond the veil of the apparent…!
 Those steel plates are not attached to the wall. They are attached to the windows.
 …To the windows?

Think, unobservant one. Was there a single open window in the corridor? Or were they all covered by steel plates?
 But… why? Why cover the windows at all?

O, Sun-D… Your fur is most certainly abuzz today…
 Hey, I asked if you know why the windows are covered…?

It has been… a long day. Countless souls born, and countless more lost…

I don’t think he knows.

Well… this place is scheduled for reconstruction, right. Could it have something to do with that?

In any case, it gives this place kind of an eerie atmosphere.

Finally, our host’s booming voice echoed through the main hall.

…Sorry to have kept you waiting.

Hanamura is in the kitchen… And it seems Kuzuryuu is not coming after all.

I am sorry. I informed him of the party, but…

You don’t have anything to apologize for, Peko-chan. It’s his fault if he’s not coming…

This party should’ve been compulsory participation, but…
 …Whatever. If only one person is missing, it isn’t a problem.
 …Nothing is going to happen to a single person, after all.

…That sounds ominous, does it not?

More importantly– Hm?

Music fades out

Oy, what is this?!

Togami’s face suddenly became stern, and his eyes fixated on the food-covered table.

…This is dangerous.

Togami stomped towards the table, and then…

Re: Living to the Fullest

H…Hey! What are you doing?!

That’s so unfair! He’s eating the food all by himself!
 I am not eating it…!

However you look at it, this is eating!
 I am telling you, that is not what I’m doing…! Take a good look at this food.
 It looks like delicious grilled meat…
 …And what is this delicious grilled meat attached to?
 …Hm? They’re steel skewers.
 That’s right. These steel skewers are exceedingly dangerous. And therefore… as the person in charge I must confiscate them!

Beautiful Ruin

Ah, it seems everyone is here! In that case, let me bring in the main… um…

Hey!! You started eating already?

Who made this food?

Um… I…I did… Um, are you from the Gourmet Club?

The Gourmet Club is a private restaurant rating organization led by the protagonist’s father and rival in the most famous of famous gourmet manga, Oishinbo. Togami’s line reflects the line the aforementioned father exclaims after tasting a particularly shocking meal he didn’t know his son made.

What were you thinking? How could you use such a dangerous implement in your food…?

D…Dangerous…? This is Churrasco, a legendary South American skewered meat dish…

See, it fits the tropical mood, so I thought it would be just right for our party.

…The problem is the skewers, not the food.

Eh?! I can’t even use skewers?!

From this reaction, I am guessing there are other dangerous items you know about…
 Oy, Hinata. Come with me. We have work to do.

…W…Why me?!

Heh… You were the first person he laid eyes on. Bad luck, mate…

Reluctantly, I followed the stern Togami out of the main hall.

Come on. We’re going to thoroughly search the kitchen for any other dangerous items.

Sigh… he just said ‘thoroughly’, didn’t he…

Togami stomped on toward the kitchen, and I followed him again.

Let’s begin. Leave no stone unturned.

Saying that, Togami started carefully going through the kitchen’s shelves himself.

Take a look… I found something already. This shelf has forks and knives on it.
 …Don’t tell me. Even cutlery isn’t allowed?

They’re sharp and pointy, and therefore dangerous. Disposable chopsticks should be enough for eating.

Togami stuffed every fork and knife into the Duralumin case…

You were serious when you said “thoroughly”…

Before we start searching for more dangerous items, maybe we should hear more about what he’s after.

Hey, is this really necessary?

…Of course it’s necessary. If it weren’t, we wouldn’t be here.
 I made a promise - there will be not a single victim. To fulfil that promise, the utmost caution is necessary…
 Is that… it?

…What do you mean, “is that it”?
 Well, I just thought… maybe something happened…?
 I mean, you suddenly suggested we have a party. I can’t help but think there’s a reason for that…

There isn’t… It’s just that… For a long time now, suspecting everything and everyone has been second nature to me.
 Suspecting…? Why?
 …………

Hrmph. I don’t particularly like to discuss my past, but…
 Fine. I shall tell you just a little. 

Re: Welcome Despair Academy

There are things in my past I can’t tell anyone about… They are the reason I became so prone to suspicion.

A secret past…? Togami…?

There were people I couldn’t trust… and people who couldn’t trust me. My life was like a nightmare…
 It is only natural my personality would be affected.

Nevertheless, I believe my nature is going to come in handy in our current situation.
 To survive in a situation like this… one must suspect everyone.
 So, um… About that past of yours…

…Not yet.
 Some day, though… Some day I may be able to finally tell someone about it.

If we manage to pass our days in peace, without anything happening, I may have no choice but to tell you…

T…That sounds awfully significant.

I feel as though I heard only half a story… And now I have more questions than I started with.

It seems this guy has more secrets than I thought.

Music stops

Oy. Enough useless talk. We have work to do.
 R…Right, I’m on it…

Beautiful Ruin

Well, he’s still acting like a slavemonger… That’s probably second nature to him too.

Let’s find those dangerous items.

Many types of knives are arranged here. I’m sure those, too, are…

These knives are outrageous! Far too dangerous!
 …Give them to me. I shall keep them safe.

Togami pulled the knives from my hand and put them all inside the duralumin case.

…I expected nothing less.

There are all kinds of dishes here, in a staggering variety of cuisines…
…There’s even a humongous meat on a bone!

That Hanamura… he really went all out on this. I’m a little worried we won’t be able to eat all that…

It doesn’t seem like this pile of food has anything dangerous in it, unlike that Churrasco before.
 I guess…

Sigh… I almost thought he was going to say that bone could be used to bludgeon someone…

Um… This paper…

Hrm… This is an equipment list for this kitchen.

Fork x 20. Knife x 20. Spoon x 20. Skewer x 5. Frying pan x 3. Wine glass x 20…
In addition, there’s even a barbecue griddle and a portable stove for hot pots.

A griddle and a portable stove… I found them on the shelf over there.
 They seem to be in excellent condition. Certainly very much usable.
 This kitchen is pretty good, isn’t it? It’s not even that much worse than the hotel restaurant.

But… this is strange. There is one number in this list that doesn’t fit.

Whaaaaaaat?!

You’re making a mess of everything! What is this?!

Don’t shout… you’re hurting my ears. I am simply confiscating every dangerous item.

Ah! My chef’s knives! And all the tableware! Why? How come?!

I just told you. I am confiscating every dangerous item.

You aren’t saying… cooking utensils are dangerous?!

Ah well… At least I’m nearly done with the cooking. I just need to get everything ready to serve… It’s not a big problem, but…
 B…But…!

Waaaaaaaah! Hinata-kuuun!
 N…No! S…Stop hugging me!

Eh? You’re not predisposed to Boy’s Love, Hinata-kun? My fantasies are a little shattered.

No… I think I’m the one who’s shattered here…

Oy… There’s something I have to ask before you two go cuddle each other.
 According to this list… there is one steel skewer missing.

Oh, that’s right… I believe it was missing since I first got here.

Well, things are in pretty good shape here, but this is still the old lodge. This was bound to happen, wasn’t it?

…………
 If it wasn’t here in the first place… there’s nothing we can do about it, can we?

You’re right… There doesn’t seem to be any place to hide such a long skewer, in any case.
 Very well… As long as I remain vigilant, we can let it rest.
 Remain vigilant… you mean for the entire night?

Let’s go back. The others must be waiting.
 You too, Hanamura. Right now, we should all gather at the main hall.

Sure…

…Jeez, he really is a pushy leader.

Ah, they’re finally back!

Hey, let’s start already! I’m so hungry I can’t take it anymore!

No… There is still one issue that requires our attention.

Eh? There’s still something left?

Whatever it is, we can just beat it up!! I’ll do it myself, so just tell me what to hit!

It’s not that kind of problem…

We need to keep this case with the dangerous items safe somewhere.

Can’t we just leave it here?

You’d think that would be okay because it’s under lock and key, but…
 We want to be extra careful tonight. We should find a safe place to store it.

I saw a storage room at the far end of the lodge.

Hmmm… No, we can’t possibly use that place. It is not nearly safe enough.

In that case, let’s have someone guard it. That would make it safe, would it not?

Eh? But, who’d want to do that?

…I would, of course.

Eh… are you sure…? Um… We gladly accept your kind offer… or something…

But, wouldn’t you get lonely, all alone like that?

I do not mind. I have never been good with crowded places.

Ha ha… Ibuki’s gonna write a song about this! It’ll be called “One More Lonely Girl”!

But, since all the food is here, do you mind if I take my share with me to the storage room?

Of course not!

But… if we’re going to have someone stand guard, there’s probably a better place to use than the storage room.
 Eh? Why?
 That storage room is all messy and there’s no light there. And there are cobwebs everywhere…

I kinda had my hands full with this main hall, so I couldn’t give that storage its proper attention.
 Yeah, I guess it’s not the nicest place to sit in for a whole night… Or the healthiest.

In that case… she can guard it at the office.
 The circuit breakers for the lodge are also in that room. We probably ought to guard those as well.

Yeah, the office would be great. Happily, it isn’t that messy over there.

…I understand. So, should I go and guard the case at the office?
 I shall be going, then. Please enjoy yourself to the full, everyone.

Pekoyama took a plate of food and the duralumin case…

…And left the room.

Ah, the pathos-filled image of Peko-chan walking into the distance is super-cool, huh?

Hey, what about this other case? Shouldn’t she take that too?

This is…
 …No, this one is fine over here.

That’s so unfair! How come you get to have your stuff with you?

I have special privileges. I am special, after all.

…Kinda says it all, don’t it?

This case is not to leave my sight. After all, it holds the key to the other one.
 I shall take responsibility and guard it personally. I can’t trust anyone else with it.

M…More importantly… are we done with all those problems? Can we start the party already…?

No, there is still something left.

I’ll beat that one down too! Quickly, tell me what to hit!
 We told you before, haven’t we? You can’t solve these problems with violence…

Actually, she might be on to something. Someone has to keep him away, after all.
 Eh? You don’t mean…?

The one thing that could hinder this party. Monobear.

Yes! We get to eat after I take down Monobear, right?!

Whoa, easy there… Picking a fight with Monobear is only gonna stir up trouble we don’t need.

Are you saying I should just wait here until I starve to death?!

I…I think you’re exaggerating, just a little…!

Hmm… Maybe there’s a cleverer solution than blindly starting a fight…

…………

Ah. In that case, I’ll do something.

Do something…? You…?

Hey, hey… what can a little girl like you do? It’s too dangerous, isn’t it?

It isn’t dangerous. I am not going to do anything on my own.
 You’re not…?

I see… you intend to employ Monomi, then?

Yeah. I think I can cajole her with some flattery, and get her to help.
 I’m sure she can probably help keep Monobear in check… I think.

Ah, that sounds like a good idea! She does seem gullible, that rabbit!

Monomi-chan and Monobear-chan do act like rivals, after all!

Well, just one of them always gets the upper hand, though.

But, are you sure you’re going to be alright, Nanami-san? It’s still dangerous, isn’t it?

No, I’ll be fine. If I sense danger, I’ll immediately make a hasty retreat.
 …I’ll be going, then.

…………

I don’t know why… but I don’t like this…

It’s not like I have a bad feeling or anything, but…

So, everything’s settled now, right? Can we just get to…

…Yes. We can begin now.

LET’S DO IT!!

Heh heh heh… At long last, this banquet begins…

Music fades out

Fuahahaha! Let us dine!

Just like that, the party started.

Beautiful Days [Piano Arrange]

Now I think about it, I still don’t know exactly why we’re having this party in the first place.

Still, though… Everyone seems to be enjoying themselves.

Can I eat now? Can I?
 …She says, face already full o’ food…
 Ha ha… I can’t stop…
 Ha ha ha ha! There’s no way I’m stopping now!
 Of course you can’t stop! You’re eating the World’s Tastiest party food!
 You’ll eat ‘til you’re full! Then you’ll eat ‘til you burst! Then you’ll eat some more!
 That’s what my World’s Tastiest Food is all about!
 T…That’s a little scary…
 …Why aren’t you eating? If you don’t I’m gonna finish everything by myself!
 I’m still bringing the food in, so don’t worry - there’s plenty more!
 Hey, everyone! Since we’re all here, should I take some pictures?
 Oh, how wonderful! Please do!

* click *

* click *

This is… a strange feeling…
When we came to this island, I was angry at how much fun everyone seemed to be having…

…But now, I feel reassured.

We really are comrades, fighting together… This solidarity sure is–

Muuuuu…. muuuuuuu…!
 …Hm? Nidai? What’s wrong?
 I…I’m sorry for doing this without warning…
 But I… I have to pop back to the hotel for a little while…!

Don’t be foolish… I shall not allow any such action.

Do not attempt to stop me, Togami… There are times where you have to let a man go where he must…!
 If I don’t go now… it is a mark of shame on me as a man.

Music halts

Shitting the pants… IS A MARK OF SHAME TO A MAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAN!
 …You have to go to the toilet?!

Re: Junk Food for a Dashing Youth

If you need to use the toilet, there is one right here at the lodge. Why is the hotel necessary?

D…Don’t think I didn’t try the nearest crapper first! But someone’s been using it for a while now!

W…What is the meaning of this…?!

…What are you in a fuss about?

M…My “Devildog Earring” is…
 It’s gone! Has it flown away into subspace?!

Don’t make a racket. You probably dropped it somewhere.

SHIT!!! MY SHIT IS COMING OOOUT!!!

Shut up and hold it!

Heeeey, ish it really okay if I ee’ erryfing?

D…Don’t be ridiculous! At least set something aside for me!

Hey, Togami! Everyone! I’m taking another picture!
 Say cheeeeeeese…!

* click *

For heaven’s sake, can’t you all act a little more responsibly…?

* Beep-beep! *

…Hm? What was that sound just now?

Music halts

* ka-chack! *

…………

………………

Huh…? Why is it suddenly pitch-black…?

Uwah, the power’s out!

T…The power’s out…?

Tropical Despair

Eh?! The power’s out?!

The hell happened?! I can’t see nothing!

Fear stirred up by the darkness soon washed over everyone, like a flood.

I…It’s too dark! Everything’s too dark!

The sound of yells and frantic footsteps echoed through the hall…

But were soon swallowed by more voices.

C…Calm down, everyone! We have to keep calm at a time like this!
 Waaah! Don’t step on my feet!
 Oy, what are you doing?!

Thanks to the iron plates covering the windows, the lodge was in complete and utter darkness.

The darkness was so total… that my eyes couldn’t adjust to it no matter how long I waited.

Stop it!!
 Ow!
 Turn on the lights! It’s hard to eat this way! 
 Hey, everyone! Where are you? T…This power outage… it isn’t just in the kitchen?
 Could someone perhaps have flipped the circuit breakers?
 W…Wait here! I’ll use the walls as a guide and go see if I can’t fix this…!

We waited in the darkness for a while, waiting to finally be released from this anxiety.

We waited for a while, and then, finally…

Music fades out

* ka-chack! *

Ah…!

The light finally returned to the hall… but then, suddenly…

…We noticed the shocking sight in front of our eyes.

T…That’s…!! 

T…That’s…!!

It was… Mikan Tsumiki’s messed up figure.

Re: Junk Food for a Dashing Youth

I…I’m sorry! I fell down again!
 H…How the hell do you keep getting into these poses?!
 Yay! An indecent pose! This is clearly a fan service scene, isn’t it!
 H…Hiyaaaaaa… Don’t! Don’t look at me, pleaaaase!
 Hyohyohyo, Ibuki can’t get enough of her!
 Mahiru-chan! This would make a great picture!
 N…No way I’d take that kind of picture!
 Hyuu… Forgive me…! Forgive me, pleaaaaaase!
 E…Everyone… should we not help her, rather than standing here doing nothing?

Beautiful Ruin

Hyuuu… Sniffle… U…Uuuuuu…

I…I’m sorry to be a constant disturbance…!

Just… be more careful next time, okay?

Oh, look at that! The lights’re back on in here, too!

You flipped the breakers back up, Big Bro Souda?! Good for you! You actually managed to be useful for once!

Uh… well, actually… I didn’t make it to the office – that’s where the breakers are, see – before the power came back on…

Eh? So, how come the power’s back on?

Search me…

Don’t say “search me”! Try being a little more helpful!

I can’t help it, can I?! ‘Sides, you try finding that office in pitch darkness!

…Huh?

Is something wrong, Sonia-san?

No… It is just that I can’t see Togami-san anywhere. Did he go somewhere?

…Eh? Togami-kun?

Music fades out

We looked around the room. Sure enough…

…Togami, who should’ve been there bossing us around, was nowhere to be found.

Re: Despair Syndrome

T…That’s strange… He was here when the power went out, wasn’t he?

Huh? Did he go somewhere… while the lights were out?
 But, it was completely dark…

I’m… a little worried. Let’s split up and search for him, for the time being.
 I’ll go look in the storage room. Hinata-kun, how about you handle the entrance?
 R…Right, I’m on it…

So… I’ll go check the office. Y’know, since I can actually find the place this time.

I shall go look around the corridor, then.

I’m gon’ wai’ ‘ere. I’m shtill ee’ing, you shee…

How can you still be eating…?

Leave the toilet… to me…
 I WILL CHECK THE TOILET LIKE A MAN DOES!!

Like a man does…? I… don’t want to know.

Oh, Mr. Porkfeet… He must’ve ran away like a scaredy-pig the moment the lights went out…
 What a useless leader. When we find him, I’m gonna pinch him on the forehead.

But… honestly, where did Togami disappear to?

Um… I’m supposed to go search the entrance. Nanami should still be there, too.

But we can’t just leave the people on the way alone, can we?

Nuuuuuu…
 W…What are you doing here? Aren’t you supposed to be checking the toilet?

S…Someone is using it…
 Someone’s been using it ever since the party started…

YOU FIEND! KEEPING THE CRAPPER TO YOURSELF IS EXTREMELY INCONSIDERATE!
 Someone’s been using the toilet… since the party started?

That’s what it seems like… Every time I came here someone’s been inside…

THAT’S IT! SHIT!! SHIT’S COMING OUT!!

Guwaaaaaah! The more I hold it the more it keeps piling up!
 J…Just hold it…! I know you can do it…!

But still… who could be using the toilet for such a long time?

If it’s been since the start of the party, it can’t be Togami, right?

I searched around the corridor, but Togami-san isn’t here.
 I wonder where he went to… He isn’t outside, is he?
 I still haven’t checked. I’m going right now.

Re: Despair-Syndrome

…………

…………

I found Nanami and Monomi standing in front of the entrance. They must be on the lookout for Monobear…

Huh? Hinata-kun… why aren’t you at the party?

Howawa! It isn’t over already, is it?! I still didn’t get a chance to participate!

Hey, Nanami… You haven’t seen Togami around here, have you?

Togami-kun? No, I haven’t seen him.
 But… why are you looking for Togami-kun?
 There was a power outage inside the lodge… and when the lights came back on Togami was gone.
 So… we thought we’d check if he didn’t go outside or something.

…………
 No, no one came outside at all.

If he hasn’t gone outside… does that mean he’s still somewhere inside the lodge?

…Maybe he’s in there and we keep missing him.

…Maybe.

…………

Re: Despair Syndrome

Ah, Hinata-kun! Well, how about it?
 I asked Nanami, and she said he never came out of the lodge…
 T…That’s strange… There wasn’t anyone in the storage room either.

No one in the kitchen either, of course.

Or at the office…

…There wasn’t? At the office?

Huh? What about Big Sis Pekoyama? Wasn’t she supposed to be there, guarding?

Yeah… Pekoyama wasn’t there at all.

…Eh? So Peko-chan is also missing?

Perhaps… they took advantage of the darkness and they’re necking each other at the toilet…?

Outrageous!

…Hm? Hmmmmm?

Owari-san… is something bothering you?

No… but don’t you smell something…?

Um… the remains of undigested food in the small intestine are decomposed by intestinal microbes and turn into a gas…
 That gas is mostly absorbed in the intestinal tract, but the part that doesn’t is discharged through the anus.

T…That’s the way farts work… So… farting is not embarrassing at all!

No, that’s not it…

Music halts

…What I smell… is blood.
 …Blood?!

Ocean Breeze Dead End

Hm… hm… hm…

Owari twitched her nose like a wild beast, and then pointed to a certain location.

It’s coming from over there. I’m sure of it…!

It was… the table at the far end of the main hall.

Blood…? I can smell nothing, save for the sweet fragrance of the food…

H…Hey, how come you can sniff out blood in the first place…?!
 Are you sure you’re not imagining it? I’m sure that’s it.

So, someone just go and check it out already!

I’m sure it’s over there… The smell of blood is coming from that table…

S…She’s smelling blood from that table…?

You should go check it out, Hinata-kun.
 Y…Yeah…

“Mirage Silver Falcon” Jum-P has this to proclaim:
 The action you are about to undertake… shall come back to haunt you one day.
 But, if your mind is set, I shall not interfere.

Dammit! Ibuki’s nose isn’t good at all!

Had it been Ibuki’s ears, though, there’s nothing they can’t do!

B…Blood…?! Maybe she’s just smelling some rare steak? Right?

Kyahaha! Big Sis Owari’s just like a stray dog!

She’s even eating like one! Heeheeheehee!

Uyu… I’m used to the smell of blood, but…

Sniff sniff…

I…I’m sorry! I can’t tell…!

S…Shit’s coming out shit’s coming out shit’s coming out shit’s coming out…
 Why is the toilet not free yet…?!

B…Blood…? Isn’t that strange? I haven’t made any rare meat today…
 N…No one should be smelling any blood…!!

The smell of blood…
 Is there something… on that table…?

It’s… under it…!
 Under the table?

I ran to table, and reached to the tablecloth…
…But then, I stopped.

…Nervousness? Fear?

W…Why? Why am I so nervous suddenly…?

No… It can’t be… That’s impossible!

There’s no way!

I raised my voice in a scream and grabbed the tablecloth, lifting it in a single movement.

I am certain I will never forget that sight as long as I live.

In front of my eyes…
Was the dead body of “Super High-school Level Heir” Byakuya Togami.

Chapter 1
Tropical Despair
(Ab)normal days (end) 

Chapter 1
Tropical Despair
Abnormal days

Tropical Despair

Togami…san…?
 Eh? Why is Togami-san…?
 N…No…
 NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!

Despite the scream behind me, my feet remained planted firmly in place…

…And my eyes remained fixed on my former friend’s dead body.

…W…Why?!

WHAT’S GOING OOOOOOOOOON?!

AGYAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!

N…No way…!

Stop jokin’ around! This ain’t right!

This… isn’t real blood, right? It’s just jam or sauce…
 I…It can’t be…

…Abuabuabuabuabuabu!

Goodness! I see something shocking has happened!

Shocking! Just, shocking! I mean, isn’t it electrifying?!

The newly deserted Jabberwock Island has finally seen its first murder!
 M…Murder…?

W…Wait! So, you mean…!

Upupu… Of course…

Togami-kun… was killed by one of you.
 Wha…?!

You can tell just by looking at the body. It’s obviously murder!

Look at that ugly face…
 It’s the face of a man cursed with losing his life for the sake of another person’s ego.
 When you see that kind of dead face…
 What could it be other than murder?!

Someone here wanted so desperately to go home that they decided to make Togami-kun a victim.
 Y…You’re lying…
 It’s a lie! No one killed him!

The moment I said the word “killed”…
A thick feeling of despair immediately swelled up within me.

Right then, in that moment…

In that moment, I finally accepted that someone did kill Togami.

W…What… is this?!

I…Is that… Togami?

Why… Why did this happen? Why Togami-kun?

Ahem… It seems the only person still missing is Kuzuryuu-kun…

It wouldn’t be fair to leave him out, would it? So let’s do that thing we do!

Music stops

* ding dong ding dong *

A body has been discovered!
 After a short time for investigation, we will start a “school trial”!

Ocean Breeze Dead End

School… trial…?

I explained it before, didn’t I?
 When a murder occurs between you bastards, you are required to reason out who the culprit among you is.
 Y…You want us to find the culprit…?

Exactly! You bastards must conduct an investigation, and expose the culprit who killed Togami-kun!

That’s impossible… How could someone have killed him…? There’s no way anyone would!

Upupu… That kind of reaction will just serve to draw suspicion toward you, you know…

I…I won’t believe it… I won’t believe one of us killed Togami-kun…
 There’s no way such a despair-inducing thing would happen!

The moment you bastards start thinking that way will be the moment the culprit drives you to the wall.

So, let’s start this show!
 It’s a battle for life between you bastards and the culprit! And this battle has already begun!
 It began the moment one of you started scheming murder!

W…Wait! What are you saying?!

Everyone! You mustn’t! You mustn’t listen to what Monobear is saying!

It doesn’t matter how much you try to interfere, there is only one truth.

Come, you bastards, the game is afoot!

A foot game? Are you talking about soccer?

Come, Monomi, I’ll give you the boot!

Boots?! But it’s not even raining!!

Come, Monomi, you’re covered in soot!

W…What?! Did this happen because of the boots?! This is howibble!

Man, this joke is going nowhere… In that case…

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Extracurricular Lesson

I’m breaking up this comedy duo!
 UGYAAAAAAAAAAA!
 Being hit by a corkscwew blow weally weally hurts!

Don’t think you’re equal to me in power! I shall not treat disobedient little sisters with mercy!
 Your big brother can be quite the demon when he needs to! I am heavily into discipline!

Uuu… If only I had my Magical Stick… I could fight back against Monobear…

Yeah, yeah, whatever. Let’s forget the pitiful howling of the underrabbit, and start the investigation already.
 I want you to show me the love by suspecting and deceiving each other! Give it all you got!

All the best!!

Re: Despair Syndrome

Then, Monobear disappeared, leaving us with our crushing despair.

W…What’s going on…? I don’t get it…!

He wants us to search for Togami’s killer? Why, such a terrible thing…?

G…Gimme a break…
 Why do I have to get caught up in all this bother…?

U…Um… You mustn’t doubt each other… You should all be friends…

But, Mr. Porkfeet really has been killed, you know.
 If we don’t find the culprit, everyone else is gonna die too!

Nevertheless, I cannot abide this!
 I have finally made some friends… and now I must be suspicious of them?!

This is not about whether you can or can’t abide with this…
 You just have to if you want to live, don’t you? It’s not like we have a choice.

You mustn’t! Friends mustn’t doubt each other! Never!

Shut up! If you have nothing useful to say, just go away, you stupid rabbit!

Howawa! Being scolded is scary!
 …………
 We really don’t… have a choice…

I hate this… I really hate this…

I…I hate it too! I hate it and I’m scared!

Nevertheless, Saionji is right. We will be killed if we don’t do it… so we have no choice.

…………
 But… I still won’t believe it. I won’t believe one of us killed Togami-kun…
 I can’t believe it… I’ll never believe it…
 And that’s why…
 …………

I’m gonna do it.
 I will investigate Togami-kun’s death… and prove it wasn’t one of us who killed him.
 We don’t have to suspect and deceive each other. What we must fight isn’t one another…

…It’s this despair that’s trying to destroy us!

The true enemy that we must fight… is this despair-inducing reality…
And in order to survive that fight…

…We have no choice.

Ah, may I say something before we begin?
 …………

In closed-circle mystery games and the like, this is where they decide who is going to guard the crime scene…
 Maybe we should do the same?

I see. It would be terrible if the culprit were to destroy evidence. It would put the rest of us at a disadvantage.

D…Destroy evidence…?

If we need a guard, there’s someone with the perfect physique for it! Iiiiiiiit’s that person!

…………
 U…UOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!

W…What the…? What happened?

Guess he’s got a delicate heart under that tough exterior…
 …A…Are you sure that’s really it?

Um… I’ll stay here…
 I don’t have the confidence required for investigating the body, and I’m not that smart anyway…
 All I can really do right now is stay by Togami’s side. That works for guarding the scene, doesn’t it?

K…Koizumi-san…
 …………

U…Um… um…!

I…I’ll do my best too! I’ll do my best not to stand in anyone’s way!

I…I know just enough to examine the body a little… Please, let me do what I can as a medical worker.

So… you’ll stay here as well, Tsumiki-san?

But… what are the rest of us supposed to do, in concrete terms? Ibuki has no clue!

It’s true that we’re not exactly trained for murder investigations.
 We can’t exactly go combing through every grain of sand on the beach, looking for clues.
 Only the police can use such methods… It’s impossible for amateurs like us.

That’s why, right now… what’s important is our intuition.
 Our intuition will lead us to the proof. The proof that there is no culprit who killed Togami-kun.

But… investigating a fwiend’s death is a cruel thing to do…

But… we have no choice, do we? We can’t… just refuse, can we?

I…I don’t believe any of it… I don’t believe that Togami died…
 …………

I…I get it… I’ll do what I can…

It is the only way… to ensure that everyone survives this ordeal.

I can’t believe we have to do such a horrible thing if we want to survive…

Music fades out

Finding the culprit… that is our one and only hope if we want to survive…

But is that really… hope?

…………
 Nevertheless… we have no choice.

INVESTIGATION START

Tah-dah! You thought you were going to start investigating now, didn’t you? But there’s one more thing!

The Monobear File!

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

It’s a necessary provision for amateurs like you bastards, of course!
 W…What the hell…? The Monobear File…?

Honestly, I have to explain everything that should be obvious? What a pain…

Although, it’s not like I can feel pain, is it? But, enough with the lame jokes!

………….

As I was saying. The Monobear File courteously collects and confirms facts regarding the body.

Isn’t that kind of me? I mean, amateurs like you couldn’t possibly get information like this on your own…

I’m so kind I wish they’d call me the Mother Theresa of the mascot world!

You wish…? That’s just a simple yearning, isn’t it!

Oh? Monomi-chan, the meaningless mascot, is still here?

Don’t make up a mascot genre just for me!

We’re leaving now! Your role here is over! Come with me right now!

It huwts! Don’t pull my ears! You’ll tear them off!!

Music stops

They’re finally gone…

The “Monobear File", huh?

Re: Despair Syndrome

I guess it wouldn’t hurt taking a look.

Get a load of that Engrish. Actually, it doesn’t seem that bad, grammatically, but it’s very definitely Engrish.

The victim’s body was discovered at the main hall of Hotel Mirai’s old lodge.

The time of death was around 11:30PM.

The cause of death was stabbing with a sharp object. The victim was stabbed multiple times in the region between the abdomen and the throat.

There are no other wounds on the body, nor any traces of poison or other drugs.

…………

So, it’s true… Togami really is dead…

Shit… You promised us there won’t be a single victim… How come you had to become one…?

And also… you never did finish telling your story, did you…?

Re: All All Apologies

There are things in my past I can’t tell anyone about… They are the reason I became so prone to suspicion.
 There were people I couldn’t trust… and people who couldn’t trust me. My life was like a nightmare…
 It is only natural my personality would be affected.

What did that even mean?

Perhaps…

You see, if I’m right and there really is a traitor among you, that would be a terrible thing.
 Don’t you want to get revenge on the imposter who’s trying to trick you? Are you really going to let them get away with this?

A traitor…?

No… I don’t care how many vague statements he made, he couldn’t have possibly been…

What am I even thinking?!

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Monobear File 1

The victim’s body was discovered at the main hall of Hotel Mirai’s old lodge.
The time of death was around 11:30PM.
The cause of death was stabbing with a sharp object. The victim was stabbed multiple times in the region between the abdomen and the throat.
There are no other wounds on the body, nor any traces of poison or other drugs.

We’re doing things a little differently - when we get an evidence bullet (or one is updated), I’m going to include the description for that bullet, as it appears in the evidence bullet list. Hopefully, that will make it easier to keep track of what’s what.

Music stops

Anyway… I should start my investigation. I must not miss anything.

That’s right… I have no choice… If I want to survive, I have no choice.

…I’ve already made up my mind.

INVESTIGATION START 

Ikoroshia

Investigation Start! But, before we begin, I have some sad news. Togami isn’t the only one who died recently in the game. That’s right –

RIP Chibimi. Cause of death: severe lack of attention, Culprit: me. Luckily, we can press the triangle button to get another chance! Yay trivializing pet death!

Left alone to die in despair in piles of its own accumulated filth. Kinda puts being stabbed eight times in perspective, doesn’t it?

Here we go. Um, I guess I’d better clean the place up, too.

There. We’ll do better next time, I promise!

And now, time to really start the investigation. Let’s begin with the place one usually begins when investigating a murder.

Under this table… Togami is…

…………

I…I think I’ll check on top of the table first.

…Um… But… The only significant thing on top of this table is…

…This tabletop lamp.

It looks like an antique, and feels somewhat heavy…
Its power cord is attached to an outlet in the wall, so it wouldn’t have been much help during the blackout.

It doesn’t look like anything else here is important… so…

…………
 This… is not a time I can afford to look away…
 …I have no choice!

Steeling myself, I looked under the table.

Re: All All Apologies

At once, an indescribable smell – like rotten metal – assaulted my nose.

Just looking at Togami’s dead body caused a tingling pain somewhere behind my eyes.
“Super High-school Level” Byakuya Togami… He may have had an arrogant, holier-than-thou manner, but…

All the same, as our leader, he did his best to pull all of us together.

Why… did this happen…?

I should do everything I can right now… for his sake.

…Everything I can.
 I will find out the truth behind your death!

Ikoroshia

There are several interesting things under the table, but we’ll start with the largest.

Under the table… Togami’s body was lying face down.
He looks as if he was just in the middle of doing something, but…

According to the Monobear File, he was stabbed repeatedly between his stomach and his throat.

Stabbed again and again…
Did… Did one of us really do such a thing?

Evidence Bullet Updated posted:
Monobear File 1

The victim’s body was discovered at the main hall of Hotel Mirai’s old lodge.
The time of death was around 11:30PM.
The death was caused by stabbing with a sharp object. The victim was stabbed multiple times in the area between the abdomen and the throat.
There are no other wounds on the body, nor any traces of poison or other drugs.
Togami’s body is lying face down, his hand reaching forward.

…Hm? What’s this?

They look like… binoculars…?

Why are there binoculars under the table?

Hinata-kun… those aren’t binoculars.
 Eh? So… what are they?

I’m pretty sure… they’re night-vision goggles.
 N…Night-vision goggles?
 I saw them at the supermarket when we were there earlier. They had a whole stand of military and survival stuff…

In that case…

Did the culprit use night-vision goggles to stab Togami during the blackout?

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Night-vision goggles

Found under the table next to the body. It seems they came from the supermarket.

This blood-stained knife… Is this the murder weapon?

…And… Hey, wait a minute…

How did a murder weapon even get into the hall?
I mean… Togami was very thorough in his body checks, and even went to check around the lodge…

Every dangerous item should have been inside that duralumin case.

Maybe… someone could have swiped it from the case.
 Or maybe… it was hidden somewhere and Togami didn’t see it.

There’s one more interesting thing about this knife…

There’s some kind of paint all over the handle.
When I look at it under the table, where the light is dim, it seems to be faintly luminous…

…Could this be glow-in-the-dark paint?

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Knife

A blood-stained knife found under the table, next to the body. Something that looks like glow-in-the-dark paint is stuck to it.

The blood flowing out of Togami’s body is making a large pool under the table.

That’s a lot of blood… There are stains all over the tablecloth across from me…
…And also on the part I lifted up when I found the body. It’s everywhere…

There must have been… quite a lot of blood splattered all around from the force of the stabs.

But… there aren’t any traces of a trail of blood anywhere.

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Blood around the table

There is a pool of blood under the table, and the underside of the tablecloth was violently stained as well. There are no traces of a trail of blood.

Hm? There is something stuck to the underside of the table here…

Is this… packing tape?

It looks like… there’s paint all over it, too.
When I look at it under the table, where the light is dim, it seems to be faintly luminous…

…Is this glow-in-the-dark paint?

Um… I think I’ve investigated all I can under the table.

I guess I did pretty well… all things considered…

I’m probably a little closer now to understanding the truth behind Togami’s death.

Let’s see what the students who are still hanging out in the hall are thinking.

Uuu… why must we investigate a friend’s death? T…This is horrible…

B…But! I’m the only one here who’s a medical worker!

S…So… I have to do something…! S…S…Something…
 How about calming down a little first?

You’re right… I…I have to calm down.
 I mean… I am prone to accidents even when I’m not panicking…
 Yeah… I can tell by the way you keep falling down.

T…That was a truly disgraceful pose I found myself in, wasn’t it…

Nooooooo! I…I just remembered it again!

T…That embarrassing pose… i…in front of everybody…!
 Embarrassing or not… how did you even end up like that?
 S…Somehow… I was distracted by the blackout and my foot got caught in the edge of the carpet… And I tried to get loose and…

Wahh… it is embarrassing after all…!
 Please… erase it from your memory!
 Um… unfortunately, it’s not that easy to forget…
 …I’m sorry.

Sniff… I can’t take it…!

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Embarrassing pose

Tsumiki fell down during the blackout at the party. By the time the lights came back on, she’d gotten into a very embarrassing pose.

Hey, Hinata-kun. There’s something I want to confirm with you…
 Togami-kun… was here with us at the main hall until the lights went out, right?
 …Yeah, I am sure of that.

And since we found his body after the lights came back on…
 …That means he has to have died during the blackout, right?
 Yeah, I guess you’re right…

But… Why did we find Togami-kun’s body under that table?
 If the culprit wanted to hide the body, it wasn’t a very effective hiding place…
 …I don’t get it at all.
 Yeah…
 It seems… that figuring out what happened during the blackout would be a huge step toward solving this mystery.
 But there’s no way we can do that, is there? It was completely dark back then. No one could see anything.

You’re right. Seeing was impossible. But maybe there’s someone who could hear what happened?

…Hear?

I… think I know who he has in mind.

…………
 Koizumi… are you alright?
 Alright? Sure…

…Of course I’m not alright! This is madness!

I mean… we were just talking to that guy… and now he’s…
 …How could this ever be “alright”?

And that’s not all! One of us killed him, right?!
 We… still don’t know that for sure…
 …Yes, we do! I’m sure you’ve figured that much out by yourself already!

And now… we have to find out who the culprit is…. We have to accuse one of our friends of killing another friend…
 I don’t like it myself… but if we don’t, we’re done for.
 This isn’t every man for himself! We have to do it for everyone’s sake!

…………
 If I had just acted a little more calmly during the blackout, Togami would probably not be dead now.

And we wouldn’t be doing this right now…
 Come on… You can’t blame yourself for this…
 …………

Ah, I’ve had it!!
 This isn’t like me at all, being consoled by a man like this!

Hey, Hinata. This conversation never happened. Got it?!
 Uh… Sure…

Anyway… I’ll try and stop thinking about it too much. I don’t want to be a hindrance to everyone.
 And… there’s one thing I have on me that might be helpful…
 …You have something helpful?

Photos. Do you remember? I took some right before the blackout happened.

Hey, Togami! Everyone! I’m taking another picture!
 Say cheeeeeeese…!

* click *

I see… You have the photos from back then…
 Do you want to see them? This is a digital camera, so we can look at them straight away.
 Yeah, let’s see them!

Um… there’s this photo and…

This one, as well.
 I took both right before the blackout, but…
 Huh…?
 …Is something wrong?
 I just noticed. Take a look at where Togami was standing before the blackout…
 He’s quite a distance from that table we found him under, isn’t he?

I mean, that table is that one with the lamp on it, right under the monitor, right?

Well, Togami’s standing clear on the opposite side of the room!
 You’re right… That’s pretty far away…

Something isn’t right here…

Perhaps… we should figure out exactly where everyone was standing before the blackout.

Hey, can we tell exactly where everyone was standing from these pictures?

Yeah, I was thinking the same thing.
 It’s a little difficult to tell just by looking at them, though, but we should be able to figure it out if we’re careful…

But… would that really be helpful?
 I still don’t know for sure… but it couldn’t hurt.

Got it… so, leave that to me. I think this is a job only I can handle.

Yeah, that would be great.
 Right, in that case…

You’ve got work to do too, don’t you?! How long do you plan to stand here being useless?!

I fully expect you to bring to light the reason Togami was killed. Understand?
 Y…Yeah, I understand…

For better or worse, she’s back.

O, Devildog Earring… answer my calls!
 …………

Argh! Will nothing work…?!
 Um, are you… still looking for that earring you dropped?

It is no ordinary earring… It is “The Devildog Earring”!
 …………

Once, in a distant land, there lived a savage beast that couldn’t be tamed – even by his so-called “master”. They called him “The Devildog”…

I regret asking.

The Devildog wandered from one battlefield to the next, his fangs forever slimy with hot blood…
 His fur, stained red, drying in the wind… he wandered the earth alone for eternity…
 And on the day I finally domesticated the Devildog, I was given an earring as a keepsake…

That is the legend of the Devildog Earring.
 I carry it always… so I shall never forget the day I fought that fearsome pomeranian…

A fearsome… pomeranian. Right.

I get that it’s important to you, but… what about Togami’s murder?

Where is it?! Answer me! Where did it disappear to?!
 …………
 Maybe… it fell under the floor?

The carpet doesn’t extend to the corners of the hall, so it’s possible it fell through the gaps in the floor…

Muhahaha! So, that is what happened! A fine observation…!

Tanaka laughed loudly, and walked to the corner of the room. There, he crouched down and pushed his face toward a gap in the floor.

Then… a concentrated expression appeared on his face.

I…It’s there…
 It’s there! My Devildog Earring!!

Fuha! Fuhahaha! God favors Gundam Tanaka alone!
 That’s great.
 …………

…But, how do I get it out of there?
 My hand will not fit through this gap, and it seems no tool can reach far enough in…
 I guess you have to give it up, then?

…Give up on the world?
 The earring.

Bah! Do you not know?!
 Should this earring ever be lost to mankind, this world will end in an instant…!
 You humans… forever satisfied with your fabricated wisdom!

These falsehoods will not protect you when the cold comes, ignorant one.

Why… is he mad at me?

Feh. I was naive to think I could depend on you… So be it. I shall see to this matter personally.
 The wellbeing of this world… falls once again into my hands.

I guess he really wants that earring back. That’s some determination he has, though…

…I wish he’d use it to help with the investigation.

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Gaps in the floor

The main hall’s floor is full of gaps. Tanaka dropped his earring through one of them.

There are still some things of interest in this room.

An air conditioner and its remote control…

…Hm? An air conditioner?

That’s right, maybe, back then…

For heaven’s sake, can’t you all act a little more responsibly…?

* Beep-beep! *

…Hm? What was that sound just now?

* ka-chack! *

The only machine in this hall is this air conditioner…

And… huh? This remote control…

Its timer is set to 11:30.
 That’s about the same time Togami was killed.
 In that case…

That mechanical beep back then must have been this air conditioner turning on!

I guess I have my moments of inspiration.

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Air Conditioner Timer

The air conditioner in the main hall was set to turn on automatically at 11:30.

Ah, that’s… the duralumin case Togami was carrying.

It seems it’s been opened at some point…

There’s a nightstick inside… and a can of tear gas… and some other unsettling items.

…Hm? What is this?
It’s a hard plastic case… but it’s empty.

What was inside…? That would be interesting to know.

But, there’s one more interesting thing in here.

This key… It must be the key to the other duralumin case.
The one with all the dangerous items in it. The one in the office…

If the key’s still here, inside this case, then…
It stands to reason that the other case hasn’t been opened…

In other words… The weapons inside that other case have nothing to do with Togami’s murder…

But… I feel like I understand even less now.

Why did Togami have this case with him?

It’s packed full of defense items…
But these… aren’t exactly the kinds of things you keep around “just in case”.

Maybe… he knew something was up?
 And… he was so cautious he had to keep these things with him?

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Duralumin case

A case carried by Byakuya Togami. It’s packed with defense items, as well as a hard plastic case of unknown origin. It also contains the key to the case holding the dangerous items.

Well, then. Is there anywhere left for me to investigate here?

Ah, Hinata-kun… Do you have a second?
 …Hm? What is it?

If you’re done investigating the hall for now, how about we go talk to the others together?
 See, if I go talk to them alone, there might be some who would be on their guard and won’t talk to me…

Well… We’ve just been told the culprit is one of us, so it’s natural people will be on their guard…

But, why me?

Hmmm… why indeed? You’re easy to talk to, Hinata-kun. And… I feel you’re a little like me.
 We both have special feelings toward Hope’s Peak Academy… don’t we?
 Well, I guess…
 …Sure. But if we’re going together, let’s do it quickly. We don’t have time for chatter.

…That’s a relief. You’re a lifesaver.

Special feelings, huh…

I really don’t think me and him are anything alike, though… 

Ikoroshia

For the time being, let’s investigate the rest of the lodge and speak to everyone.
 I think… we should consider our “crime scene” to be the whole building, and not just the main hall…
 I mean, when the lights went out, it affected the entire lodge.
 Yeah, you’re right.

We’ll start with Ibuki, who didn’t go very far. She’s standing right there near the exit from the main hall.

Every great detective knows you can’t have a proper investigation without lots of legwork!

So Ibuki’s using her legs! She’s been idly walking up and down this corridor!

And she says it with such conviction…

Hey, Hinata-kun… I’ve been thinking.
 I think she might know something about the situation during the blackout.
 Yeah, I thought so too.

Huh?! Why do you think so?!

As expected, you heard us, even though we’ve been whispering to each other…

Tee-hee! Ibuki not only has looks, style and personality – her ears are pretty good too!
 …That’s exactly it.
 If your ears really are that good, you must have heard exactly what went on during the power outage.

When the lights were down… there were a lot of people talking.
 I couldn’t really tell who everyone was… but you probably could, right, Mioda-san?

This is breakfast for Ibuki!
 …Huh?

Heh heh heh heh! Ibuki stuffs herself full of strawberry shortcake every morning!

Oh, I see… so it’s “a piece of cake”… But, isn’t strawberry shortcake a little excessive first thing in the morning?

Any other type of cake would be heretical! If it’s cake, it must be strawberry shortcake!

Hmmm… I’d think chocolate cake and cheesecake are pretty popular too…
 Anyway… Can you just tell us what you heard? I’m begging you.

At last! Ibuki’s been waiting for something to sink her teeth into!

No problem! If you help us, I’ll let you bite Hinata-kun, too.
 Shut up… She might think you’re serious.

Leeeeet’s see… The first voice Ibuki heard during the blackout was…

Re: DISTRUST

…Right, right. It was Mahiru-chan.

Uwah, the power’s out!

And then… next was Kazuichi-chan, and post-next was Ibuki’s own voice.

The hell happened?! I can’t see nothing!
I…It’s too dark! Everything’s too dark!

Kyahaha! Ibuki’s comment sure was full of insight! Appropriate and humorous!
 …Yeah, sure. Just keep going, please.
 The voices after that were… um, they went like this:

C…Calm down, everyone! We have to keep calm at a time like this!
Waaah! Don’t step on my feet!
Oy, what are you doing?!
Stop it!!
Ow!
Turn on the lights! It’s hard to eat this way!
Hey, everyone! Where are you? T…This power outage… it isn’t just in the kitchen?
Could someone perhaps have flipped the circuit breakers?
W…Wait here! I’ll use the walls as a guide and go see if I can’t fix this…!

Ikoroshia

Thank you, thank you. And, we’re done!

Tee-hee. Amazing, huh?! How awesome was that!
 Yeah, got it. You can let go of my sleeve now.
 Hey, Komaeda… Say something to her…!

…………
 …Hey, what’s wrong?
 Huh? Oh, I just noticed something. It’s about what Togami-kun said during the blackout…
 …Togami?

How come Togami-kun said what he did when everything was dark?
 That is… how could he say it?
 “What are you doing?!”, and then “Stop it!!”…
 …What do you mean?

Would you mind if we wait until after we’ve investigated some more before I tell you what’s on my mind?
 Right now… I’m still not certain of anything.
 Well, I don’t really mind, but…

Anyway, I think your testimony’s going to be a very important clue to finding the truth, Mioda-san.

Yes! All hail Ibuki! Time for my prize!
 –Ow! She actually bit me!

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Mioda’s Testimony

Mioda described the voices she heard during the power outage:
Koizumi: Uwah, the power’s out!
Souda: The hell happened?! I can’t see nothing!
Mioda: I…It’s too dark! Everything’s too dark!
Koizumi: C…Calm down, everyone! We have to keep calm at a time like this!
Saionji: Waaah! Don’t step on my feet!
Togami: Oy, what are you doing?!
Togami: Stop it!!
Komaeda: Ow!
Owari: Turn on the lights! It’s hard to eat this way!
Hanamura: Hey, everyone! Where are you? T…This power outage… it isn’t just in the kitchen?
Sonia: Could someone perhaps have flipped the circuit breakers?
Souda: W…Wait here! I’ll use the walls as a guide and go see if I can’t fix this…!

Next, we find Sonia in front of the corridor leading farther into the lodge, east of the main hall.

Um… May I ask of you a question?
 …Hm? What is it?
 Um, you see…

This part of the wall is made of different material and is colored differently from the rest. What does it mean?
 Oh. This is a fire door, isn’t it?
 A… fire door?
 …Eh? You’ve never seen one before?
 In case there’s a fire, this door can be sealed to stop it from spreading. That gives everyone a chance to escape.

I see! It seals the area! This is just like when you surround a house with plastic bottles!
 …Well, that’s for cats.

Yes, that’s a real thing. A Japanese superstition says stray cats don’t like hanging around bottles full of water. You still see private yards surrounded by them in rural areas from time to time.

So she knows how to keep cats away, but she’s never seen a fire door.

I am so very ashamed… This is most certainly a case of culture shock.

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Fire Door

The old lodge’s corridor is equipped with doors that can be closed to prevent the spread of fire.

We’ll go investigate the kitchen next, because, well, it’s right here.

Hey, Hanamura… Were you here in the kitchen when the lights went out?
 I was quite shocked when that happened…
 At first, I thought the power outage was limited to the kitchen, but when I somehow managed to find my way out…
 The corridor was completely dark as well!
 But, I could hear everyone’s voices, so I tried finding my way by clinging to the wall…
 And when I did, I saw it was dark in there as well… There was absolutely no light anywhere.
 Couldn’t you have used the kitchen range to get some light going?

No, that’s impossible.
 It’s a gas range, but it’s controlled electronically so it was also affected by the outage.
 I see… so there really was nothing you could do.

I thought that since you use fire in the kitchen, maybe there was a source of light here, but I guess there wasn’t.

…Things are never that simple.

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Hanamura’s Testimony

The kitchen range is controlled electronically, and so couldn’t be used during the power outage.

Let’s see if we can’t find anything else in the kitchen we haven’t noticed before.

There are all kinds of dishes here, in a staggering variety of cuisines…
…There’s even a humongous meat on a bone!

Isn’t that amazing? A huge chunk of meat to amaze everyone!

A dish perfect for an island like this. You just can’t get this kind of meat in urban Aoyama and Azabu.

Nope! I grew up in Aoyama and Azabu, and there’s no such meat there!
 You don’t have to repeat yourself – I get it. But… where did you get such a huge chunk of meat?

I had to ask Nidai-kun to get it for me. I think he killed the cow at the farm with his bare hands.
 W…With his bare hands…?

That’s an unbelievable story… but probably not an impossible one.
 I mean, that guy’s hands look like they’re specially made just to beat on things.

Those are some unpleasant hands…

Sure gives a feeling of wilderness, doesn’t it? But, I am sometimes jealous of such rural lifestyles.
 After all, I grew up in Aoyama and Azabu, so I… don’t really have much experience of that kind of thing.

It sure is a waste of meat, though. I mean… No one’s going to want to eat anything now that such a terrible thing has happened…
 The only ones who even got to eat at all are Owari-san and… Pekoyama-san, who took a portion with her.

Bah. Don’t remind me.
 After preparing the world’s tastiest party food, only two people got to taste it…

I still don’t quite believe it, but if one of us really is the culprit…

Grrrah! I will never forgive them for doing this to me!

He’s… quite scary when he’s mad.

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Party Food

Assorted varieties of party food Hanamura worked hard to make. Despite its quality, Owari and Pekoyama were the only two to eat any of it.

The kitchen’s equipment list. Togami confiscated every dangerous item on it.

As far as I can tell from this list…
 The knife we found next to Togami-kun’s body didn’t come from this kitchen.
 It seems someone brought it in from outside.
 But… if that’s the case, how did they get it past Togami?

That is strange… he didn’t even spare the girls a full body check…

In that case… perhaps they brought it in beforehand and hid it somewhere…?

Nevetheless… this is a surprisingly complete list, isn’t it?
 There’s even a barbecue griddle and a portable hot-pot stove in this kitchen.
 But there isn’t a single thing on it that seems like it could be connected to the case. We should move on.

…Yeah, I guess you’re right.

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Kitchen Equipment List

The knife found at the crime scene isn’t listed in the kitchen equipment list. Togami confiscated every item on the list that could be used as a weapon. According to the list, there is also a barbecue griddle and a portable hot pot stove in the kitchen.

Hrm… I think we’re done investigating the kitchen for now.

Komaeda… We should get going.

…Yeah, let’s go.

Walked 1000 steps

Next, moving farther into the lodge, the storage room.

Wow, it sure is dusty in here… and there’s not much light, either.

I was so busy cleaning up the main hall that I just didn’t have time to do this room as well…
 There are cobwebs everywhere… I don’t think anyone could stay here for long.

…………

A few things here we can look at.

There are tablecloths piled on the shelves. They’re all clean and look unused.

Doesn’t seem to be anything weird about them.

There seems to be a large cloth someone just shoved into this laundry box…

I think… that’s one of the tablecloths.
 I think you’re right…
 …Wait, huh?
 Take a look at this tablecloth… See what’s on it?

That’s… blood, isn’t it?!

…Eh? Blood?
 Come here and look, that’s clearly blood!

It’s dark in here… I can’t really tell.
 I…I’m sure that’s what it is! It can’t be anything else!
 And if that’s blood… then this tablecloth must be connected to Togami’s murder somehow!

If this tablecloth really has blood on it, then that is indeed a possibility.
 I’m telling you, it’s blood!

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Tablecloth in the Storage Room

A tablecloth with blood on it was haphazardly stuffed into the laundry box at the storage room.

That’s… a lot of boxes.

We really don’t have the time to go through them one by one…
 …So let’s just ignore them.

Yeah. That would be wise.

Hm? Are those irons?

They don’t seem to be plugged in, but why are there even three irons over here?

…That is weird, isn’t it?
 When we went looking for Togami after the lights came back on, I found those irons here…
 …But they were all plugged in and powered on.
 …They were powered on?

I thought it would be bad if we had another outage, so I unplugged them. But… doesn’t it seem like someone did this deliberately?

Deliberately…?

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Irons at the Storage Room

There are three irons in the storage room. When Komaeda found them, they were all plugged in and powered on.

Hey, Hinata-kun… It’s no use wasting time in this dark, dirty room.
 …Let’s go investigate somewhere else.
 …Hm?
 Oh, yeah… You’re right…

We’re done with the east side of the lodge, so let’s go back through the big area in the middle…

…and see what’s up with the toilet.

* rattle rattle *

Huh? It’s locked.

It seems someone’s inside. It’s a unisex toilet so it could be anyone…

Heeeey, is someone in there?!

Komaeda knocked and yelled toward the door, but…

…………

No answer… That’s not very considerate, is it?
 …Let’s give it up for now and come back to investigate later.
 Yeah.

The office is right next to the toilet, so we’re checking it next.

The circuit breakers for the old lodge should be in this office.
 The breakers, huh…? They probably have something to do with the outage.
 We should go ahead and check them out first, then.

If he says so…

So, those are the circuit breakers.

The power outage probably happened because they were tripped somehow…

Hmmm… I can’t see any signs they were tampered with. There’s nothing suspicious about them, really…
 Aren’t they a little too high, though? I don’t think any of us could reach them without standing up on something…

That’s right… And that’s not even the end of it…
 See, I was in a massive panic during that blackout, so I forgot to bring this up before, but…
 Well, it’s like you said. No one can reach the breakers. Even if they stood on something. They’re just too high up.
 So… what I mean is… Who flipped the breakers back on? And how’d they do it?

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

I did it!

…Whaaaaa! He’s here!

You bastards seemed to be totally unable to handle that blackout, so I flipped the breakers back on for you.

Ah, by the way - it wasn’t me who tripped them in the first place. That was the culprit, of course.
 B…But… you’re too small. How could you even reach the fuse box?
 First of all, my eyes have night-vision built in, so seeing in the darkness wasn’t a problem for me.
 Then, as for how I could reach so high to flip the breakers on…

I stretch. My entire torso stretches.
 I am a very elastic bear, you see.

…T…That’s clearly a lie!

It’s true! Do you want me to demonstrate?
 Do you want to see Monobear’s long torso version? It’s gross and grotesque!

I… think we’ll pass. Just thinking about that is… unpleasant.

Awww, too bad!

Nevertheless, Monobear is a very kind bear! If there was a popularity contest, I’d be the landslide winner!

Ikoroshia

W…What the hell…? He was the one who brought the lights back on…?
 W…Well, I guess that’s one mystery solved. I knew it wasn’t possible for one of us to reach that high…

But… how did the culprit trip the breakers in the first place?

If they didn’t do it manually, and didn’t install a mechanism to do it for them, then…

Time to get some more testimonies.

I know what you are thinking. I am under heavy suspicion, am I not?
 Eh?

It is unavoidable…
 There was an unexpected power outage, during which Togami was murdered.

Furthermore, the circuit breakers are here… and I was supposed to be here as well. It is only natural suspicion would turn to me.

You were “supposed to”…? Does that mean…?

That’s right! You weren’t here! I was looking for you!
 …Where were you?
 You were supposed to be guarding the breakers and the weapon case, right?

And yet… you decided to just go who knows where without telling anyone…?

About that…

…Uu!!
 Gah… Kkkk…!

Pekoyama suddenly started grunting, and dropped down to one knee.

…Is… something wrong?
 N…No… I am not… feeling too well… I’m sorry, but… Please excuse me…

“Excuse you”…? The hell?

Pekoyama-san, it seems someone’s using the one here in the lodge…
 I recommend heading straight to the hotel or to your cottage.
 …Eh?

Ku… It appears I have… a painful road ahead of me…!

Pekoyama left the office with trembling steps, a large amount of cold sweat covering her face.

W…What’s up with her…?

Um… It would be rude for me to say anything. I have to think about Pekoyama-san’s feelings…

…What’s going on here?

I see what’s going on here. She just ran away from us, didn’t she?

Which means she must be the culprit! I’m pretty sure about that!

Is that so?

So… Pekoyama’s our culprit. You with me?
 …Why do you think so?

Well, she was supposed to be here. And she wasn’t.
 I mean, when we were all looking for Togami, I came right here to this office…
 And she already wasn’t here.

Well, I wouldn’t want Sonia-san getting mad at me, so you didn’t hear this from me, but…

I think Pekoyama flipped the breakers, and then used the darkness to go and murder Togami.

Also, don’t you think her face’s always too calm? She looks just like an assassin, doesn’t she?

Well, it’s not like you have such an inviting face yourself…

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Souda’s Testimony

Souda went straight to the office during the search for Togami after the lights came back on. The office was empty and Pekoyama was nowhere to be found.

No more people to question, so let’s see what else is in the office.

This is the remote control for the office air conditioner.

…Huh?

This one is also set to 11:30.
It’s just the same as the one back in the main hall.

This… can’t be a coincidence.

Evidence Bullet Update posted:
Air Conditioner Timer

The air conditioner in the main hall was set to turn on automatically at 11:30.
The air conditioner in the office was also set to 11:30.

This duralumin case…

It’s the one Togami used to store all the dangerous items he confiscated, isn’t it?

Shouldn’t we check inside… just in case?
 I guess… but I think it’s still locked.

The key was inside the case Togami-kun kept by his side…

See? I brought it with me.
 Hey… You just took it without telling anyone…?!

I guess I shouldn’t have messed with the crime scene, right? But, if I hadn’t we wouldn’t be able to open it.

…So, let’s just do it.

He’s not even a tiny bit embarrassed…

* click *

…Here, it’s open.

Forks and knives… some skewers and a wrench. Everything is stuffed inside that little box…

But… I don’t think the culprit had any way to get something out of this case.
 I mean, the key to open it was still inside the other case. The one Togami was holding.

Yeah… He’s right.

Well, then… I think we’re done with the office.
 Yeah. Let’s move on.

There aren’t any other rooms to check in the lodge, though…

Hmm… I think we looked everywhere inside the lodge.

I have an idea. Why don’t we go take a look at Togami-kun’s cottage?
 Togami’s cottage…?

I think we might find a clue there… it wouldn’t hurt looking, in any case.
 It’s just that…I’m afraid of going alone. It might turn out dangerous. 
 I don’t really mind coming along with you, but…
 Aren’t you worried the danger might turn out to be me?

…You mean, why aren’t I afraid it might be you who’s the culprit, Hinata-kun?

To tell you the truth, it hasn’t even crossed my mind. Or, maybe I should say, I don’t want it to.
 I mean… If surviving means I have to suspect my friends, I’d rather die trusting them.
 Don’t say that… How’s dying going to help you?
 Aren’t we doing this in order to survive in the first place?

That’s just like you, Hinata-kun… You really are strong. As expected from someone chosen to attend Hope’s Peak Academy.

So, let’s go! Straight to Togami-kun’s cottage!
 Y…Yeah…

Somehow… something feels off when I’m talking to him… 

A rather unusual sight greeted us as we exited the lodge.

Re: Junk Food for a Dashing Youth

Everybody act surprised!

…Hey, what are you two doing?
 “What are we doing”? Ha! A question fit for an imbecile!
 Um… We are checking if there is a way to get under the floor from here.
 …Under the floor? What for?
 They thought it impossible. They judged it useless. But who are they to decide?
 That earring… must be returned to me, whatever the cost!
 I have a feeling… that the truth behind this murder hinges on whether the space under the floor is accessible or not.
 And that’s why… it is necessary to investigate that. I think.

Ikoroshia

I see… the space under the floor. I’m ashamed to say I didn’t notice it myself until now.
 …What do you mean?

Try to recall the scene.

The carpet didn’t reach the floor under the table, where we found Togami-kun’s body.

And that’s not all – the wooden floor at the hall had gaps between the boards, right?
 You’re not… are you saying the culprit could have stabbed Togami from under the floor?!

I thought so too, so I decided to check if someone could enter that space from over here…
 …………
 …And? Did you find anything?

No. I think it’s impossible to reach that space from outside the lodge.
 There’s a remarkably sturdy fence surrounding the space under the floor on all sides.

It’s also inaccessible from inside. I haven’t seen anywhere you could get under the floor from…
 But… maybe there’s some kind of a hidden door somewhere?

No, I don’t think so.
 R…Really?
 In any case, it seems it’s impossible to access that space from outside. I’m quite relieved, actually.
 Relieved? Why?

Because… if it were possible to enter that space from the outside, that would make one person seem very suspicious, wouldn’t it?
 The one person who wasn’t at the party and has no alibi…
 Oh, I get it… Kuzuryuu.

Actually… I had the same suspicion. That’s why I decided to check if one could enter that space from the outside.

By the way… A short while after I first came here to guard against Monobear…
 …Kuzuryuu-kun passed by the area.
 …Eh? He did?

…Huh? Why are you here, Kuzuryuu-kun?

I…I could ask you the same question… Why the hell are you standing here all by yourself…?

I’m on guard. I’m keeping Monobear out of the party.

Heh… Must be a pain…

Why don’t you join the party, Kuzuryuu-kun?

I wouldn’t join your stupid housewarming if you paid me… You morons make me want to puke.

…………
Perhaps you actually do want to join the party… Is that why you came by?

N…No way! I was just taking a damn walk!
Do I have to give an advance notice every time I want to take a fucking walk?!

No. That’s not what I was saying…

Then get off my case.

After that, he went away.
 So you saw him… But, why did he come by the lodge…?

…………

I think he really did want to join the group, but just couldn’t bring himself to admit it…
 He thinks he’s surrounded by people who are too different from himself… and that’s why he’s always alone.

…Do you know the title of the RPG whose protagonist is just like that?

Wait, since when is this conversation about games?!

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Nanami’s Testimony

While Nanami was on guard, Kuzuryuu briefly passed by the old lodge before walking away somewhere.

No one knows what’s on his mind but him… but we don’t have any real reason to suspect him.

That’s great. I’m relieved.
 How can you keep saying things are great? We still have no clue who the culprit is.

…………

Well… for the time being let’s go visit Togami-kun’s cottage, like we planned.

Slim odds will not dissuade one such as I…
 I will show you all… the Devildog Earring will be mine once more!

The murder investigation really does mean nothing to him, doesn’t it?

Let’s move on to Togami’s cottage.

…But look who’s in our way!

…What? I told you to stay away, didn’t I?
 We can’t have that right now. You’ve heard Monobear’s announcement, right?

Of course I did… It seems Togami got himself killed…

…But, why should I give a damn?
 W…What did you say…?
 Do you think I did it? Think whatever you want… I’m used to being suspected.
 T…That’s not it…
 But… just to be sure, can you tell us what you did when the party took place?

…Feh. An alibi check, is it?

I don’t have one… I’ve been alone in my cottage the entire time.
 …The entire time?
 But… Nanami said she met you in front of the lodge?

Feh. Fuckin’ details…!

Yes, I went for a damn walk. And I happened to pass by the lodge.
 Was that really just a walk? Maybe you thought you might join the party…?

F…For the last fuckin’ time, it was a fuckin’ accident!!
 Okay, okay…

Feh. Shithead.

On to Togami’s cottage.

* rattle rattle *

Huh? It seems the door is locked.

In that case… we have to ask him to do something about it.

Then, Komaeda took a big breath and…

Heeeeeey, Monobear!

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

Did someone call?!

K…Komaeda… Since when did you have him under control…?

Hey, Monobear. We have a request for you. There’s something we want to investigate.

Hey, who are you talking to? That was just an afterimage, you know?

Heh heh heh… When I get serious, I produce afterimages.

With this technique, I can play soccer all by myself!
 …Though it’s really boring that way!
 Hey, we don’t have time for your jokes right now. Just open Togami’s cottage for us.

If we don’t investigate this place properly, the school trial can’t proceed properly. It’s necessary.

Necessary… for the school trial, you say?

Hmm… if it’s necessary for the school trial, how can I refuse?
 Here we go! A magical incantation that opens any door!

Ba - Ba - Balse!!

* click *

There. It’s open. Go ahead and investigate to your heart’s content, you bastards!

Music stops

…………
 Did it really… open by incantation?

Ikoroshia

It’s probably an electronic lock. He was just doing a stupid act.
 Y…Yeah… Well, let’s go in.

Yeah, let’s.

Togami-kun… won’t ever return to this room again…

There is exactly one thing in this room worth clicking on.

On top of the table… lies something that looks like an envelope.

This looks like… a letter addressed to Togami…?

The sender’s name isn’t on it… This is a little suspicious.

Hinata-kun… I think we should check what’s inside.
 Yeah, you’re right…
 Um…

Re: DISTRUST

…Eh?

“Watch out. The first murder will occur tonight. It is inevitable.”

T…That’s…!

Note: No, Nagito didn’t clone himself. I’m not sure why, but the game glitched when I was recording and didn’t erase Nagito’s body sprite from the room while his close-up was on screen, like it’s supposed to. This did not happen on my translation runs.

I…Is this… an advance notice of a crime?
 No… it says “watch out”, so it’s probably a threat…
 W…Whatever it is, who the hell sent it?!
 I see… Perhaps…

Perhaps this is the reason Togami-kun announced a party so suddenly…
 …Eh?
 “The first murder will occur tonight”. Togami-kun received this threatening letter, and…
 And that’s why he gathered everyone in one place, and was obsessive about confiscating dangerous items.
 He thought that, by doing all that, he could create a situation where we were all watching each other.
 He thought a culprit won’t be able to kill anyone under these circumstances…
 So… you think he believed this dubious letter?

He didn’t want to take any chances… He couldn’t just ignore the possibility the letter was real.

Don’t you remember what he said? He promised us there wouldn’t be even a single victim.
 He wanted to keep this promise… and so he didn’t want to take any chances…?
 But… why did he keep it a secret? He should’ve just discussed it with us…

I don’t think he could have… Think of the worst possible scenario…
 …What do you mean?

If he told everyone about this letter, it wouldn’t matter if it’s real or fake…
 Everyone would just turn paranoid again, and that’s not easily amendable.
 S…So… Togami decided to handle it himself, without telling anyone?

He had a strong sense of responsibility… that’s the way I see it.
 …………
 A…Anyway…
 Do you agree that whoever sent this letter is also the culprit who killed him?

No… it’s still possible this letter is just a prank… that this has nothing to do with Togami-kun’s death…

…How? How can he say that?

He truly doesn’t want to believe one of us is the culprit…

I don’t like the idea either, but… after everything I’ve seen, there really isn’t any other possibility.
Whoever wrote this letter has to be the person who killed Togami.

And, in that case…

Could this person have foreseen how Togami would react, and sent the letter to manipulate him?
Did he just play right into their plans, so they could kill him in front of all of us?

…Shit. Who would do that?

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Advance Notice of a Crime

A threatening letter found in Togami’s room.

“Watch out. The first murder will occur tonight. It is inevitable.”

It is unclear who wrote it.

Ikoroshia

Hinata-kun… there’s probably not much time left until the school trial begins.
 Yeah…
 …………

Ah! That reminds me. Didn’t you ask Koizumi-san to do something for you?
 Y…Yeah… She’s supposed to figure out where everyone was standing right before the power outage…
 She’s probably done by now. You’re coming with me, right?

…………

I’m sorry… I’ll leave that to you.
 Eh…?
 I want to… put my thoughts in order. I need some time alone.
 O…Okay… got it.

Oh, and if you’re going back to the lodge, you should probably talk to Tsumiki-san again, too.
 I think she’s probably also done with whatever examination she could make of the body.
 So… see you later.

…………

His face looks pretty pale… is he alright?

But… I don’t have time to worry about Komaeda right now.

There isn’t much time left. I should hurry and go back to the lodge. 

Ikoroshia

Before we leave Togami’s cottage, there’s one more thing we have to do.

And that’s all five chapter 1 Hidden Monobears! Now, I know we’re pressed for time, but before going back to the lodge we should to a quick run through the island to see if we haven’t missed anyone.

Honestly… I really am grieving for Mr. Porkfeet…

Then maybe you should stop calling him Mr. Porkfeet…

So, what are you doing over here? Did you find any clues for the investigation?

Nope, there aren’t any here. But I’ve got much more important things to do!
 Much more important?

Curious…?
 You see, my candy ran out, so I came here to get some more!
 Huh? Candy…?

Yep! Here, look! These are my favorite gummies!
 There’s looooads of them here!

She’s abandoning the investigation… for candy?

And! There’s waaaay more than just gummies!
 There’s cookies and chocolate and lollipops. All my favorite things in one place!

But there’s one type they don’t have. What a crummy supermarket!

Oh, she probably means traditional Japanese confectionery… She is a classical Japanese dancer, after all…

Well, there’s nothing I can do, so I’ll have to make do with all the other candy.

She seems to know all about this supermarket… Which means…

I’m pretty sure… they’re night-vision goggles.
N…Night-vision goggles?
I saw them at the supermarket when we were there earlier. They had a whole stand of military and survival stuff…

Saionji might know about the goggles and the survival goods.

Hey, there’s something I want you to tell me.

Eh? You’re still here?

That’s no way to ask a lady a question, you know…
 W…What the…?

Heehee… You’re so shady! But you’re funny, so ask away!
 Uh, sure… So…
 Do you know if there’s anything missing here? Other than food and daily supplies… and candy.

Missing?
 Um… Some defense goods, I think. There seem to be less than there were before.

Defense goods… They’re probably the ones that are in Togami’s duralumin case.

Yep. The night-vision goggles are also gone. …That’s it, I think.
 I see. Thanks.

So, this is definitely where the goggles came from… I guess the culprit must have taken them.

Hey, hey, big-bro Hinata!

Here, I’ll give you this piece of candy. I expect you to repay with interest, of course.
 Huh…?

Tee-hee! It’s a deal!
 …………

I think I got myself into a bad loan.

Yo! So, how’s the investigation going?
 So-so, I guess. But what are you doing here?

I’m doing some exercise to clear my mind so I can think well!
 …………

I think if I go take a swim, something’ill pop into my mind! That’s a good idea, right?
 Wait. Don’t you need to have some clues before you start thinking about the murder?

Huh? I do? Well, that’s just details!

She probably had no intention of investigating or thinking in the first place…

Sniffle sniffle… How cwuel… This is far too cwuel…

That’s right… I wanted to ask her about the windows in the old lodge.

Hey, there’s something I want to ask you.

No… I don’t want to support any doubts and suspicions between… between fwiends…
 W…What the hell…?
 It’s not like we want to be doing this, you know!
 No… I don’t have time to fight with you right now.
 More importantly… why are the windows at the old lodge blocked with iron plates?

Eh? The iron plates?
 I installed them there so everyone won’t walk in by mistake. It’s under weconstwuction, so it’s not safe…
 So it is just about the reconstruction… and it was you who sealed them…

That’s because it’s weeaaaly dangewous to go in there! We mustn’t have any danger on this island…

…Or, at least, we weren’t supposed to…
 W…Why did this happen…? How cwuel… This is far too cwuel…

Nothing’s going to change if you just stand there and cry, though!

We need to act! We have to deal with this ourselves!

Now we can go back to the lodge and complete the investigation.

GAAAAAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!
 …Whoa!

What was that excessively loud laugh right now…?

Ah, truly a refreshing feeling…

How about it? Nekomaru Nidai is back to life! I shall not be beaten anymore!
 …Beaten by who?

Anyone. Not even my past self!
 Not that you don’t sound impressive or anything, but… What the hell are you talking about?

I’m talking about SHIIIIIIIIIIT!!
 Whoa!

Ku… I don’t know whose ploy it was to disgrace me by trying to make me dirty my pants…
 …But since just before the party started, some miscreant has been exclusively occupying the toilet.
 Yeah, now that you mention it, you did say something like that during the party…

D…Don’t think I didn’t try the nearest crapper first! But someone’s been using it for a while now!

But, if they had thought their paltry effort would shake me, they greatly underestimated my guts and my perseverance.

One must do everything swiftly and without losing composure. That’s the quality of a true champion!

In other words, to be top on the leaderboard, one must remain composed at all times!

I’m not sure you quite lived up to that ideal. But something tells me I should let this discrepancy pass unnoticed.

Anyway… so the toilet was closed since the party began. Was it still closed after the blackout?

It was finally free after we found Togami’s body…
 …And that’s how I came to relieve myself.

It’s not much of a story… but I’d better remember it, just in case.

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Nidai’s Testimony

Nidai tried to enter the toilet several times after the party began, but it was always locked.
He managed to finally get in after Togami’s body was discovered.

…………

Hmmm… It seems there isn’t anywhere inside the lodge where you can get under the floor. At least, not that I can see.

Just like Komaeda said, huh?

That means Tanaka’ll have to give up on his earring.

Hey! You’re late! What did you do, crawl here?
 I wasn’t crawling… there was just a lot to investigate, and I had to do it at my own pace.

Is that so? Well, as long as you were taking the job seriously, I guess it’s okay…
 So… what about you?

Yeah, about that…
 …You don’t sound too sure of yourself.

Well, here - take a look.

See, like we discussed, I studied the two photos I took just before the blackout…

…and tried to judge where everyone was standing.
 See? I made this map.

So this is everyone’s positions before the blackout… most of us are in the big hall, but that was to be expected.
 I drew this based on the photos, so most of it should be spot on.

So Togami really was standing pretty far away from that table…

It doesn’t seem plausible for him to have moved that far in pitch darkness…

Huh? What’s this? There’s a line stretching from the table we found Togami under.
 Um… it’s the tabletop lamp. I drew its cord, just in case it would be useful.

The lamp’s cord…?

If that cord stretched from the table Togami was killed under, then maybe…

…So, was that of any help?
 Hmm… I still can’t say for sure…

I thought so… I drew it myself and I can’t tell anything from it…
 I have a feeling there’s some clue hidden in there… but also that I may have worked for nothing…
 No, I don’t think it was for nothing.

…Eh?

I’m not certain yet, but I have a feeling this map can tell us something.

Something important…

Um… if you don’t mind, can I please discuss something with you?
 Do you have any new information?
 Um… I examined Togami-san’s body the best I could under the circumstances…

A…And… I found many stab wounds on Togami-san’s chest and abdomen…
 T…The weapon… also pierced the lungs and the internal organs… and…

Sniff… it was probably a thin sharp implement, about 5 millimeters in diameter… and…
 I…I…I think h…he was stabbed… again and again… and…

…Whaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!
 H…Hey, are you alright?
 I’m sorry…! Talking about it made me feel so sad!
 T…Take it easy. I think I got most of what you were trying to say…

U…Uuuu… I…I’m sorry…!

5 millimeters in diameter, she said…

But, isn’t that very thin? That’s like… an icepick or an awl or something…

Evidence Bullet Get posted:
Tsumiki’s Examination Results

According to Tsumiki’s examination, Togami’s chest and abdomen seem to have been pierced many times by a sharp implement about 5 millimeters in diameter.

Music fades out

* ding dong ding dong *

It’s time! That’s right! It’s time for our long-awaited school trial!
 I will now announce the meeting place.
 On the central island here in Jabberwock, there is a mountain with my cute face carved on it.
 Its name is “Monobear Rock”!
 Please proceed to the underground elevator, accessible from a hidden secret entrance on that mountain.
 Upupu, see you later!!

A mountain on the central island… that has Monobear’s face carved on it…?

Let’s go look for it.

Re: Despair Syndrome

I think we found it.

Ocean Breeze Dead End

…Huh?

Hey, where’d this mountain come from?! I…It wasn’t here before!!

A mountain in the shape of Monobear… How did he even make it…?

It seems… that the hypothesis we discussed before is true.
 About the possiblity of a “powerful organization” being involved here.
 That’s… what Togami said, isn’t it?

Togami-san… We require still his wisdom and guidance… but he…

Ku… It’s still difficult to believe that he really is dead!

Byakuya-chan Byakuya-chan Byakuya-chan Byakuya-chan Byakuya-chan…

…………
 By the way… where are Tanaka-kun and Kuzuryuu-kun?

N…Now that you mention it… it seems they aren’t here yet…

Ah! I know! They both ran away!

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Lesson

Oh, that won’t do! No one can escape me, after all!
 By which I mean to say… Look! I brought him with me!

L…Let me go!

Hey, hey! If you keep struggling, I’m going to bite your legs off!

Kuzuryuu! Where have you been until now?!

Nowhere in particular.
 There I was, in my room, when all of a sudden I hear that Togami’s gone and gotten himself killed…

Feh… The fuck does this even have to do with me?

How can you even say such irresponsible things…?

The rest of us have been working our asses off investigating so we can get through this! None of us wanted to, but we did it anyway!

Koizumi-san… we shouldn’t fight… Kuzuryuu-kun, you too…

Feh… Retards…!

…All that’s left now is Tanaka, right?

…Seek not Gundam Tanaka… for he shall seek you, if you are worthy!

Would you have me make my entrance early, when there are those not present to bear witness?!

Oh, for the love of-

…Huh?

…You seem to have noticed too, Hinata-kun.

Muaaahahahaha!

Yeah, I noticed.

Well, then. It seems everyone is finally here.
 It’s time to use the “secret entrance” and head to the courtroom.

W…Wait a minute, please!

…Oh? Monomi-chan? Why are you here? No one asked for you, you know?

I…I…!

Hm? Do you want in on the fun too?

Unbelievable. You actually want to put your incompetence on display at the school trial? I didn’t think you’d take the M in ‘Mascot’ so seriously…

But who am I to refuse? I’m a very considerate big brother, so I’ll give you special permission to participate!

…………

Well, then. I’m going up ahead. Don’t keep me waiting!

Re: Despair Syndrome

S…So… Where exactly are we supposed to go now?
 I can’t see a door or a vehicle anywhere…

He said there was a hidden entrance somewhere, didn’t he?

A hidden entrance…?

Before looking for the hidden entrance, let’s get everyone’s additional comments, as always.

Ku… This is it… The battle to avenge Togami’s death…!

Why don’t we end this terrible prank… and go get dinner or something?

What’s wrong, big-bro Hinata? Are you afraid?
 You really are a big coward, aren’t you?

A “powerful organization"… He suspected even my own home country…
 But… For my homeland to join a conspiracy such as this… is unthinkable…

Dammit… I don’t wanna go… Isn’t there any way outta here?

Pekoyama… are you alright? You didn’t seem to be feeling too well before…

N…No… There isn’t any problem.
 I am thankful for your consideration… but we have more important things to worry about right now.

Uyu… This isn’t right… Why is this happening…?
 W-W-W-Why was there a murder…?

You’ve noticed it too, haven’t you, Hinata-kun? About Tanaka-kun…
 So you saw it too…

I… I will…!

…………

If we can’t identify the culprit, we’ll all be killed…

Rejoice… The human race is safe once more!

Muahahaha!

Feh… I have nothing to do with that fatso getting killed. I know nothing.

…Honestly. This is soooo tedious.

Why are we taking our time? Let’s go in already!

…………

In RPGs, a hidden entrance often leads underground.

But, this isn’t a video game…

Byakuya-chan Byakuya-chan Byakuya-chan Byakuya-chan Byakuya-chan Byakuya-chan…

And with that thought in mind, let’s see if we can find that secret entrance.

Music stops

* Rumble rumble rumble…! *

W…What’s going on?! Something’s shaking!!
 I…It’s dangewous, everyone! Pwease take cover!

Re: Mr. Monobear’s Extracurricular Lesson

S…Something came out of that mountain!!

Don’t tell me… this is how we’re supposed to enter?

W…What is this ominous aura…?! It threatens to engulf even “Steel Red Elephant” Maga-G…!

Wow! This sure is weird and mysterious!

G…Gimme a break…! Seriously, gimme a break, will you…!

C'mon, guys, enough is enough… There isn’t a shred of reality left in this place, is there?
 I mean…

Music halts

It’s impossible! How can a bunch of kids like us catch a culprit?!

Re: Despair-Syndrome

N…Not by endlessly complaining, that’s for sure! You should act more like a man!

W…We came this far… We can only brace ourselves and keep going…
 Yeah… It’s not exactly like we can run away, is it?
 We have no choice but to keep going…

If everyone’s mind is set… I’ll try doing my best as well.

This game’s difficulty level is high… but I’m sure we can clear it together.

…………

I stepped forward, my legs shaking with fear and nervousness, and climbed the escalator.

I couldn’t think anymore…
If I tried to think… I’d probably end up running away…

I just fixed my eyes upward, and let the escalator carry me…

And then, when everyone was inside Monobear Rock…

Music stops

This is… an elevator!
 I see… So this entire mountain just became an elevator!
 That Monobear… doing whatever he wants again…
 But… he went to the trouble of building all of that… Just how intent is he on toying with us?
 We’ve been going down for a while now. This is just excessively deep, isn’t it?
 Yeah, sure is…

…An unpleasant noise reverberated inside my ears.

It was the noise of my own teeth chattering.

I closed my lips tightly, so the others won’t hear it too.

…………

And so, as the cacophonous elevator noise rang in our ears, we were carried even deeper underground…

And then, after a while, our descent came to an end…

…And the elevator doors slowly opened.

Ocean Breeze Dead End

Welcome, one and all!

So, what do you think? This is our school court! The special place that will decide you bastards’ fate!

Feh, what the fuck…?! Now you’re going to lock us in this vulgar place…?!

You’re mad! Stop fucking with me, shithead!

Upupu… Go ahead, say whatever’s on your mind! I’m used to complaints.

But, let’s not waste any more time and electricity! Go sit in the seat your name is written on, you bastards!

It seemed everyone understood that was not the time to resist…

We did as Monobear ordered. Each of us went to their designated seat.

Now… We must expose the culprit who killed Togami.

“Super High-school Level Heir” Byakuya Togami…

He was rude and full of himself. He always looked down on others…

But he also had an amazing sense of responsibility.
He was our leader, seeking to put order where there was nothing but chaos.

And he…

Music fades out

…Was killed.

Tropical Despair

Is the person who killed him… among us?

It’s unbelievable… There’s no reason to believe it…

But… if it’s true…

We must expose them, no matter the cost…

We have no other choice.

Sacrificing the culprit is the only way for us to survive…

And now, it begins…

A perilous school trial where hope and despair swirl together…

It begins. 

As in the second half of the previous LP, full videos are provided for the school trial. This time, we also have subtitled versions courtesy of HelloWinter, who for some reason seems intent on taking even more duties on herself. We’ll try to provide these together with the updates, but late edits to the script may mean they may come a day or two later in some cases. The videos do not contain the tutorial text, commentary, cultural notes or explanations about aspects of the gameplay that may not be apparent just by watching - you can get all of those by reading the post. That said - the voice acting contributes much to the game that can’t be conveyed easily with a transcription, so by all means - watch the videos!

Scroller: Byakuya Togami has been killed… A bright holiday, abruptly darkened by Mutual Killing… Is the culprit really among us? Or perhaps, is it an outsider? A Super High-school Level school trial begins now.

This is the trial preparation menu. We can Set skills (which we don’t have yet, but which we’ll get in a second), we can Look at the Electronic Handbook to review Evidence Bullets and purchase skills, we can Change the difficulty setting (but we’re keeping it on hard!) or we can Finish preparation and start the trial. I’ll start by going into the Electronic Handbook and then into Report Cards…

…Where we can now choose Usami…

…and exchange our hard-earned Hope Shards for skills.

There are actually two types of skills in this game. The first are the ones you can buy in this screen. They include many repeats from DR1, as well as some for new aspects of the trial. The second type are special skills you get by completing a character’s free-time arc. These are generally the hard-hitting skills - the ones you want if you’re trying to go for high scores or achievements.

I have enough shards for three skills - I chose Charisma, which recovers damage when answering multiple-choice questions correctly, Calm Composure, which reduces the shakiness of the scope, and a third one which I’ll describe when the time comes to use it.

Our level (which, as you may recall, increases by moving around and performing various actions during the adventure part of the game) determines how many skills we can equip. Luckily, I’m at just the right level to equip all three.

And we’re off!

Before we begin, let me explain the rules of the school trial in simple terms.
 Your task is to reason out the identity of the culprit, and vote on who to accuse!
 Should you correctly identify the culprit, they alone shall be punished! But if you vote for the wrong person…

Then everyone except the culprit shall be punished, and the culprit shall be given permission to leave the island!

Those wules are too cwuel…!

…Before we begin, there is one thing I want to confirm. Is the culprit really one of us?

Of course they are… Our murderous culprit is definitely one of you.

It truly is a sad tale, isn’t it?
 By the way, this school trial is 100% fair and square, so please relax.

After Monomi, favoritism and injustice are the things I hate the most!

You weally hate me that much?!

Well, then, let’s begin!

Y…You say we should begin… but, what exactly are we supposed to do?

How ‘bout we quit fussing around and just decide with our fists?!

You even listen to the rules?!

That moron Togami was killed in the big hall, wasn’t he? In that case, the people in there with him are the most suspicious ones.

Sure, sure. All you want to say is that you’re not the culprit, right?

Of course. It’s you who started this mutual killing business… It’s nothing to do with me.

Huh? What the…?

A…Anyway… How about we discuss the most interesting fact first?

Eh? What do you mean, “most interesting fact”…?

The location of the body… It’s strange that we found it under that table.

So… should we begin with that mystery?

The reason Togami’s body was under the table in the big hall…
We’ll start there… but it must lead us to discover who killed Togami!

Because, if we can’t…

…………

No, it’s no use thinking what might or might not happen.

All I know… is that we have to solve this mystery!

Tutorial posted:
At last, the long-awaited school trial has begun.
I realize this may be somewhat inconvenient, but…
…Please allow me to explain some key points in this simple tutorial.
As the school trial progresses, you will frequently find yourself engaged in Nonstop Discussion.
During Nonstop Discussion, your classmates will testify continuously, one after another.
Your task is to discover the lies and inconsistencies hidden in these testimonies…
…and to use the “Evidence Bullets” you have gathered to shoot them down.
A few Evidence Bullets relevant to the topic at hand will be picked…
…and loaded into your Evidence Bullet Cylinder.
You may use the analog pad to move the scope, and the triangle button to shoot.
Pay careful attention to the characters’ testimonies, choose the correct Evidence Bullet, aim and shoot.
Incidentally, if the time limit is reached the game will end in failure, so please be careful.
You may press the START button at any time to view an explanation of the controls.
The rest is up to you… We wish you luck.

DISCUSSION START

Evidence Bullets: Gaps in the Floor / Knife / Blood Around the Table

How did Togami-kun’s body…

…end up under that table?

It was the table set deepest inside the hall…

…and he was under it.

Maybe after the culprit killed Togami…

They moved the body over there?

Eh? But why would they do that?

They wanted to hide the body, of course!

That way, it would take time before we find it!

They’re just like a dog who made a mess!

…Huh? Something was strange about that testimony. It doesn’t quite fit with what I know.

Obviously, the first one’s going to be easy.

Blood Around the Table >>> They moved the body over there?

YOU’VE GOT THAT WRONG!

Don’t you think it’s odd to suggest that the body was moved?

…Huh? Why?

Um, I want you to try and remember the state of things under the table when we found the body…

There was a large amount of blood there, but no blood trails that would suggest the body had been moved.

So, it’s improbable that the culprit moved the body… I see! That makes sense!

Gaaah! And I was so sure I was onto something!

So you’re an idiot as well as unattractive and bland! Is there any reason for you to go on living?

I…I’m the type of guy who thrives on praise!

But, if the culprit didn’t carry it there, why was the body under the table?

That was probably… the place he was killed.

Wha…! Are you saying the murder took place under a table?!

Togami-kun crawled under the table for some reason, and that’s where the culprit got to him…
 …And that’s the reason his body was left there. It makes sense, doesn’t it?

T…That does make sense, but… what was Togami doing hiding under a table in the first place?

He must’ve wanted to jump out and surprise us all. He sure was a joker, that Togami!

What?! No he wasn’t! You been paying attention at all?!

Hmmm… Maybe he panicked when the lights went out, and went under the table to hide…

This is not an earthquake! There’s no reason to hit the floor when the power goes out!

The reason… must be connected to Togami-kun’s actions during the party, doesn’t it?

The reason Togami was crawling under the table…

If it’s connected to what he did during the party, it must be…

Evidence Bullet: Knife

THIS PROVES IT!

It must have something to do with the knife that we found under the table.

By “knife”… you mean that thing that makes you want to scream “that’s the murder weapon!”, right?
 Togami probably noticed that there was a knife hidden there…
 So he crawled under the table on purpose, in order to retrieve it.

Togami was indeed sensitive to dangerous items, so I cannot deny that possibility, but…

How was it that he became aware of a knife hidden under a table?

He can’t have known about it before… If he had, he’d have done something about it earlier.

In that case… What if he didn’t know about it ahead of time, but noticed it for the first time right there and then…?
 For example, if he saw someone going under the table in order to retrieve the hidden knife…

No, that is impossible.

Oh? You sound extremely confident.

Of course. The facts support my claim.

Upupu! This is getting exciting!

Tutorial posted:
In the previous discussion, we presented only a single Weak Point, but…
…from now on, there will be several Weak Points standing in your way.
Nevertheless, the weak points may be many, but only one indicates an inconsistency.
In other words, the rest are False Weak Points.
No matter how much you shoot the False Weak Points, they will never shatter…
Furthermore, doing so will deplete your confidence, and deal damage to your Expression Meter.
Should the Expression Meter reach zero, the game will end in failure, so be careful.
Please reason out which of the Weak Points is the true inconsistency.
If you wish, you may push the R button to enter Concentration Mode, and slow down the flow of the discussion.
If you feel your aim is failing because things are going too fast, it can be a great help.
However, Concentration Mode depletes the Concentration Meter, so don’t overuse it.
The rest is up to you… We wish you luck.

DISCUSSION START

Evidence Bullets: Air Conditioner Timer / Night-vision Goggles / Knife / Blood Around the Table / Gaps in the Floor

When Togami crawled under the table…

…it was right in the middle of the power outage.

That much is beyond doubt!

And that means…

That while the lights were out…

…Mr Porkfeet saw the culprit going for the knife?

It was pitch black during that blackout!

It was so dark I couldn’t even see the food in front of me!

No one could see anything, and that includes Togami.

It is impossible for him to have seen the culprit.

It’s true - the blackout would make it very difficult to get under the table… But…

Night-vision Goggles >>> No one could see anything, and that includes Togami.

YOU’VE GOT THAT WRONG!

No, Togami could see what was going on.

…And why was he the only one who could see?

There was a set of night-vision goggles under the table. If Togami used them, he would be able to see during the blackout.

So, are you saying it was Togami who used the goggles?

…Yeah, it appears so.

THAT REASONING IS FLAWED!

No, that’s clearly wrong, isn’t it?! It’s obviously just the opposite!

T…The opposite…?

I mean, it’s obvious it was the culprit, not Togami, who used those goggles!

Tutorial posted:
Are you surprised at Koizumi-sama’s sudden counterargument?
Just between you and me… I am too!
Ah… that was a lie. I offer my sincere apologies.
Well, then. When such a counterargument occurs, we proceed to a one-on-one discussion mode called “Counterargument Showdown”.
The goal in this mode is to slash back at your opponent’s arguments, draw out a weak point, and destroy it.
Please use the arrow buttons to “slash back” at your opponent’s arguments.
The trick is slashing horizontally, vertically and diagonally according to the shape and movement of the argument you are attacking.
By doing so, you can gain dominance over the discussion’s mood.
On the other hand, if you ignore your opponent’s arguments, they will gain dominance.
On the bottom right corner of the screen, a number representing your counter slashes’ sharpness is displayed.
That number represents the number of slashes that are available to you in each cycle of the discussion.
The number decreases even if your slash doesn’t reach its target, so please be careful.
When you are able to gain dominance over the discussion, your opponent will change their arguments’ content.
That means the discussion is progressing.
When that happens… a Weak Point may creep into their argument.
That said… an argument containing a Weak Point must not be slashed at regularly.
If you do so, your opponent will regain dominance over the discussion. Greatly so.
Weak points should be destroyed with the triangle button, much like in regular discussion.
Nothing but the correct Evidence Blade will manage to slash through the argument, of course.
Hmm? You do not know what an Evidence Blade is?
I offer my sincere apologies for not explaining it earlier.
Following this tutorial, I will accept a long vacation as punishment.
In this mode, Evidence Bullets are called Evidence Blades.
Um… that is all there is to it. Their content and workings do not change.
It’s simply a name… I thought it seemed appropriate, to set the mood. Do you not agree?
Er… During Counterargument Showdown, you may press the START button to view an explanation of the controls.
The rest is up to you… We wish you luck.

Please watch the video to see exactly how this works. This minigame starts out real simple - as you can see, I can slice every statement with a vertical slash. It gets really difficult real fast, though - trust me. So difficult that the third skill I bought is Super Sharp Sword, which adds 5 to the sharpness value.

COUNTERARGUMENT SHOWDOWN START

Evidence Blades: Irons at the Storage Room / Knife / Duralumin Case

If we think about this rationally…

It must’ve been the culprit who used the night-vision goggles!

I’m telling you, that much should be obvious!

DEVELOPMENT

What’s your evidence it was the culprit who used them?

I mean, wearing those goggles…

…Is the only way someone could kill Togami in complete darkness!

I’m sure… that’s what really happened here…

Anyway, in order to do that…

…It was the culprit who brought those goggles to the scene!

I saw a hole in that counterargument…!

It was Togami who brought those goggles into the lodge… If I can prove that with evidence, I can destroy Koizumi’s argument entirely!

Duralumin Case >>> …It was the culprit who brought those goggles to the scene!

I’LL CUT THAT CLAIM TO PIECES!

No, the person who brought those goggles to the lodge was, undoubtedly, the victim - Togami.

Undoubtedly…? Why?

Do you remember that duralumin case Togami was carrying with him during the party?
 There was a storage case for a set of night-vision goggles inside.

In other words, we can infer the goggles were inside the duralumin case when they were brought into the lodge…

Ha ha! Ibuki said “infer”! A clever word that doesn’t fit her at all!

That means that someone removed those goggles from inside the case during the power outage…
 And the only person who could have done that is Togami, who never left its side.

I see… If you put it this way, I guess you’re right…

In that case, that knife probably also came from inside the duralumin case, didn’t it?
 If he had night-vision goggles in there, it wouldn’t be too weird if there was also a knife!

…No, something is weird.

Yes, I guess I am weird… At a time like this all I can think about is this evening’s hors d'oeuvre…

Ewwww, gross! That was definitely a double entendre, right?!

Was the knife also in the duralumin case along with the goggles…?

No, that’s impossible.

The knife was hidden before the party even started. There was evidence that proves that.

Packing tape / Night-vision goggles case / Duralumin case / This evening’s hors d'oeuvre

I SEE!

There was a piece of packing tape on the underside of the table we found the body under.

…Eh? Packing tape?

I’m sure it was used to attach the knife to the table’s underside, and thereby hide it from view.

S…So that’s why there was a piece of packing tape left over there…

Togami was extremely vigilant and careful tonight, but even he didn’t think to check under the tables…

…If I may change the subject for a little while, why was Togami on such high alert tonight?

He brought in not only defense goods, but even those night-vision goggles in that duralumin case of his…

That is certainly excessive for a “just in case” scenario…!

Now that you mention it… so was his confiscation of dangerous items.

Subjecting us to such a thorough body check… that’s way too much if he was simply being cautious! 

He… must have known. He knew someone was going to try and murder tonight…

He had premonitions of the murder?! No, it can’t be… does he also possess the Evil Eye…?!

You think so too, don’t you, Hinata-kun?

That’s right… I’m sure Togami did know. He knew it was possible a murder will occur…

Evidence Bullet: Advance Notice of a Crime

THIS PROVES IT!

Everyone… Take a look at this.

“Watch out. The first murder will occur tonight. It is inevitable.”

Oi… What’s this…?

Hinata-kun and I found it. It was at Togami-kun’s cottage.

In all likelihood… this is a threat someone sent to Togami.

Who’s this “someone”?

No one but Monobear would write such a stupid threat…

It wasn’t me!

…Is that the truth?

The only lies I tell are white lies!

Even that’s a lie, isn’t it!

Regardless of who wrote it… is this threat the reason Togami was so wary?

This letter is also probably to blame for Togami-kun suddenly deciding to throw the party.

What do you mean?

By gathering everyone in a single place, he tried to create a situation where everyone watched each other.
 That way, whoever sent that threat would be held back, unable to make their move.

But, that letter was probably just a prank…

Nevertheless, Togami-kun declared that there won’t be even a single victim. He couldn’t just let it go…
 His strong sense of responsibility… forced him to take the threat seriously.

Ku… he should have discussed this threat with us when he got it…!

If he did that, it would just throw us into chaos… I’m sure Togami-kun understood that very well.

Then, he decided to tell no one and act alone?

His sense of responsibility as a leader became his downfall…

Feh, it’s time to stop fooling around! Who the hell wrote that letter?!

It was… the culprit, of course…

The culprit…
Are they… really one of us?

But… who is it?

Who here is the culprit who killed Togami?

Heh. How about it, cowardly one? Have you at least the courage to step forward now?

Someone who would just give up here wouldn’t have murdered someone in the first place…

But… I still can’t believe it…

I still can’t believe one of us killed Togami… 

Um… Excuse me. May I ask a small question?

…What is it, Sonia-san?

I apologize for going back to the previous subject, but there is one thing that still worries me about the night-vision goggles.
 If it was Togami who used the goggles, how was the culprit able to conquer the darkness?

I see… if they didn’t have the goggles they couldn’t see anything.

But, in that case they couldn’t have retrieved the knife from under the table, and wouldn’t be seen by Togami-kun, would they?

Even if they’d set up some kind of a landmark… they wouldn’t be able to see it in that darkness.

On the contrary… the culprit probably did use a landmark.

And it was because of that landmark that they were able to retrieve the knife in the darkness.

Tablecloth / Byakuya Togami / Party food / Glow-in-the-dark paint

I SEE!

What if their landmark was covered in glow-in-the-dark paint? That way they’d have been able to see the knife in the dark.

You see, both the knife that we found under the table…

…and the packing tape that was stuck to its underside were covered with that kind of paint.

Does that mean… that the culprit painted them in advance?

But, that would mean… Wouldn’t they need to have known in advance that the power would go out?

They must have known. That’s probably why they used glow-in-the-dark paint as a landmark.

That means whoever caused that power outage is our culprit!

Well, that’s it then! The culprit’s the one who was in the room with the circuit breakers…

In other words, it’s you – Peko Pekoyama!

Hyaa! Peko-chan killed Byakuya-chan? We’re losing both of our glasses wearing characters?!

…I am not the culprit.

She says she’s not the culprit!

…Don’t believe people so easily!!

But… I don’t think Pekoyama-san is tall enough to reach the fusebox in that office…

T…That’s a tiny problem that doesn’t mean anything! I’m telling you, Pekoyama flipped the breakers and caused that blackout!

Pekoyama, who was in the office, flipped the breakers and cut the power…

Is that… really what happened?

Tutorial posted:
In this next discussion, we introduce Blue Weak Points.
Up until now, the weak points that appeared before you indicated where you could prove a claim wrong…
These Blue Weak Points, on the other hand, indicate where you can prove it right.
Hitting these Agreement Points with an Evidence Bullet may require that you reverse the way you thought so far.
You are not trying to destroy an opponent’s lie or inconsistency…
…But rather to prove, with an Evidence Bullet, that what they are saying is correct.
Shoot an Agreement Point with an Evidence Bullet to make them work in unison and reveal the truth!
…Please ignore the fact that the metaphor does not work.
Whether a given discussion calls for refutation or corroboration is up to you to reason out.
You may press the START button at any time to view an explanation of the controls.
The rest is up to you… We wish you luck.

DISCUSSION START

Evidence Bullets: Nidai’s Testimony / Hanamura’s Testimony / Nanami’s Testimony

Pekoyama was in the office, and so…

She could cause a power outage any time she wanted!

No… that was impossible…

Eh? Why so?

Because I wasn’t in the office.

From before the outage, until after it was over…

WHAT ABOUT YOUR ROLE AS A GUARD?!

I apologize…

But, saying you weren’t at the office…

…That’s just a lame excuse under pressure, isn’t it!

It’s true, it’s easy to suspect Pekoyama after hearing this kind of testimony.

But, there was someone who revealed the true nature about what’s going on during the investigation.

Nidai’s Testimony >>> From before the outage, until after it was over…

I CONCUR!

I concur. I think Pekoyama’s telling the truth.

Oh, I get it. You’ve fallen for her, haven’t you?!

T…That’s not it… Nidai’s testimony is her alibi!

D…Don’t think I didn’t try the nearest crapper first! But someone’s been using it for a while now!

It’s true. Someone had been making exclusive use of the toilet since just after the party started…

It was finally vacant again… after we found Togami’s body.

Ah! So, maybe the person who was in the toilet is…!

Everyone except Pekoyama was in the big hall after the party started, right?

I get it! If someone’s been locked in that toilet the entire time, it could only have been big sis Pekoyama!

T…That is true…

Y…You were in there the whole time? Why didn’t you just say so at the start?!

How could she have said anything? Don’t you know anything about delicacy?

If she’s been there for such a long time… There can be no doubt. It was shit.

Gahahaha! Of course she didn’t say anything! You can’t just come out and say you were taking a shit!

Hey! Has no one ever taught you about delicacy? Are you living in a country with no women?

Mu… I apologize!

I…It’s fine… More importantly… can we please stop talking about this?

Nevertheless, I can attest that it didn’t stink too much! I can testify to that, since I was in there right after you!

…P…Please, just let it go!

But, you sure were in there for a reeeeeally long time! Did you have stomach trouble or something?

Immediately after I came to the office, I was overwhelmed by an intense pain in my stomach…
 That is why I couldn’t leave the toilet… Even during the power outage.

Hey, how did it feel when it suddenly became dark as you were doing your business? Was it unexpectedly exciting?

…Will you just stop it?

But… was that stomachache really a coincidence?

What do you want, Mr “Nothing to do with me”? You wanted out, so why don’t you keep out?

Heh. You idiots are all so unreliable, that I thought I’d put in a word of my own.

Enough foolishness. You questioned a supposed “coincidence”. What did you mean?

I mean… It’s possible that someone spiked her food with laxatives.

L…Laxatives…?

By doing that, someone could force her to leave the office, and then take advantage of that opening to flip the breakers.

I see! So that was the trick they used!

Was Pekoyama’s stomach trouble a coincidence? Or did someone do it to her on purpose…?

The story’s going to change drastically depending on the answer to that question…

DISCUSSION START

Evidence Bullets: Embarrassing Pose, Party Food, Knife, Air Conditioner Timer, Night-vision Goggles

How about it? Did you eat anything weird?

No… I don’t believe I did.

Speaking of which, Pekoyama-san… When you left for the office…

…you took with you some food, did you not?

Yes… I took a portion of the party food with me.

There must have been laxatives in the food, right?

How suspicious! Teruteru-chan made that food!

I…I would never do such a thing!

I mean, spiking the food ruins its taste!

Was Pekoyama’s stomachache just a coincidence…? Or did someone cause it…?

First, we have to make that clear.

Party Food >>> There must have been some laxatives in it, right?

YOU’VE GOT THAT WRONG!

No, it’s impossible that the party food contained any laxatives.
 I mean, it wasn’t just Pekoyama who ate that food. Owari did, too.

If someone put laxatives in that food, Akane-chan should also have had stomach trouble…

I’m feeling as healthy as an ox!

I…I told you, the food had nothing to do with it! Don’t go making weird accusations like that!

…I apologize for leading you astray.

It’s Kuzuryuu who should apologize! He’s the one who came up with the idea!

What was that, asshole?!

Stop this fighting, at once!!

So, if Pekoyama-san’s stomachache was just a coincidence, how about we go back to talking about the blackout…?

Sure, sure… you don’t have to spell everything out, you dirty bitch.

D…Dirty bitch?!

If the murder took place during the blackout, the mystery of that blackout must be important…

In that case, we must make it clear why that power outage happened…!

DISCUSSION START

Evidence Bullets: Nanami’s Testimony / Nidai’s Testimony / Irons in the Storage Room / Tablecloth in the Storage Room / Hanamura’s Testimony

Who flipped the breakers and how did they do it?

If you can’t answer that, I’ll pinch you in the forehead!

Perhaps they threw a stone at the fusebox?

They must’ve used a remote control, right?

The fusebox must’ve been tampered with somehow.

It might not have been the fusebox at all…

It is possible the power lines or the power transmission have been tampered with!

Maybe we were just using too much power?

I say Monobear did it!

By the way, I am not a dirty bitch!

How did the culprit flip the breakers at the old lodge…?

I think I have some clues regarding that question already…

Sussing out the right answer from a bunch of different theories is going to be a pattern with the blue weak points.

Irons in the Storage Room >>> Maybe we were just using too much power?

I CONCUR!

It’s just like Koizumi said… The power outage happened because too much power was being used.
 It wasn’t a coincidence, though. Someone… triggered it on purpose.

They used those three irons in the storage room for that, didn’t they?

When you found them immediately after the power outage, they were all plugged in and turned on, right?

So, someone set up those irons purposely to draw enough power to trip the breakers?

Yeah. By using the irons, the culprit caused the outage and–

YOU FOOOOOOL!!!

Hold it right there! I have something to say!

W…What is it…?

Are you saying the irons in the storage room triggered that power outage…?

I CANNOT ALLOW SUCH FOOLISHNESS TO PASS UNCHALLENGED!! 

COUNTERARGUMENT SHOWDOWN START

Evidence Blades: Irons at the Storage Room / Tablecloth in the Storage Room / Air Conditioner Timer / Night-vision goggles / Duralumin case

If the irons in the storage room are the cause of the blackout…

In order for the culprit to fire up those irons…

They would have to go to the storage room, wouldn’t they?

In that case, the people who were in the big hall when the power outage occurred…

Should be removed from the suspect list, right?!

- DEVELOPMENT -

No, the people who were in the big hall…

…are not yet removed from suspicion!

The people who were in the big hall could not have caused the blackout!

If the irons were the trigger for that power outage…

It means the culprit went to the storage room just before the blackout started…

…And turned on those irons!

Or, perhaps, you wish to withdraw your previous statements?!

It’s undeniable that the irons caused the blackout, but it wasn’t just them!

There’s still only one Weak Point here (later there will be more in these segments), and it’s pretty obvious what goes with it.

Air Conditioner Timer >>> If the irons were the trigger for that power outage…

I’LL CUT THAT CLAIM TO PIECES!

The irons did cause the power outage, but they weren’t the direct trigger for it…
 The direct trigger was the air conditioners in the big hall and the office turning on.

A…AIR CONDITIONERS?!

Both air conditioners were set to turn on at 11:30…

11:30… That’s about the same time that Mr. Porkfeet died!

So… the moment those air conditioners turned on, the breakers flipped, causing the blackout…

Well, I’ll be a monkey’s uncle! You got me! I am fully convinced!

…Monkey’s uncle?!

The culprit must have investigated the power limit at the old lodge beforehand, and set up enough irons to just barely reach it.
 Then, all they had to do was set up the air conditioner’s timers and wait for them to turn on…

Well, I’ll be a monkey’s uncle! They could cause the power outage even were Pekoyama-san still in the office!

He got to Sonia-san?!

It is also possible… that they might have asked Monobear about the power limit.

Gasp!

Did she hit the jackpot?! How detestable… You deserve to die a thousand times over…!

A thousand times? If I die that many times, I’d really be dead…

Shut up, you two!

I wouldn’t been able to prevent the blackout even if I had stayed in the office. But, nevertheless, I am ashamed…
 Had I stayed, I might have been able to quickly reset the breakers… That might have prevented this horrible incident from occurring…

No, the fusebox in that office is too high for any of us to reach…
 It would’ve been impossible for you to reset the breakers… even if it wasn’t pitch black at the time.

…Seems you shouldn’t worry about it too much.

We seem to have a cunning culprit on our hands… I’m starting to worry that we’ll never find them.

It’s fine. There’s no need for worry.
 I mean, come on! It’s just some killer, right? What chance can they possibly stand against the students who were branded the symbols of hope?!

…Eh?

There’s no way we’re going to lose here. An incident of this level isn’t an obstacle! It’s a mere stepping stone!

In the end, hope is going to win! I have full confidence in that!

K…Komaeda…? What’s up with you…?

Eh? What’s wrong?

I mean… up until now you kept saying the culprit couldn’t possibly be one of us…

I did? Oh, well. More importantly, let’s go back to discussing the incident.

As we were saying… we now know how the power outage was set up. The problem is… who actually did all of that.

Anyone could have secretly set up the air conditioner timers…
 The irons are the same… anyone could have come in before Togami-kun did and put them in the storage room…

…That’s a problem. It seems it could’ve been any one of us, doesn’t it?

…What are you trying to say?

He’s saying that’s when all is said and done we still haven’t really figured anything out!

Eh? Even after so much debate?

Unfortunately, that is the truth…
 We talked about the incident that much, and yet we haven’t found a single clue leading to the culprit…

But… that’s just natural, isn’t it? I mean… there’s no way the culprit is one of us.

Hey… didn’t you just change what you’re saying again?

Anyway… I’d like to suggest what we should do now…
 Hey, everyone. Don’t tell me you haven’t ever felt like this…

Don’t tell me you never felt it better to die trusting your friends than to survive suspecting them…

A…Are you saying we should just give up and die?!

Komaeda! What the hell is wrong with you?!

What’s wrong with me? What’s wrong with me is that’s something wrong with all of you!
 You keep blaming and accusing each other… I think that’s utter madness!

Let’s just stop it! We don’t really have to find the culprit, do we?

I hate it! We’re all friends - I don’t want to do such things!

I…I don’t like it either…

M…Me too! I…I just wanna go back home!

Waaaaaaaaaah! I wanna go home and eat lots of candy!

S…Stop it…. I…If everyone starts acting like that, I’m gonna… I’m…!

C…Calm down, everyone!

We’re comrades, aren’t we…? There’s no way that murder would happen between comrades, right…?

Then why the hell is Togami dead?!

Who cares why…? Let’s just give up, already…

After all, there isn’t a single clue leading to the culprit…

You’ve got that wrong!

…I think.

…………

…Did you say something?

I mean… we’ve already found a clue that can lead us to the culprit, haven’t we?

We… did?

Do you know who the culprit is?

I can’t say for sure that it’s the culprit… But there is a clue that points to one suspicious person… I think.

Oh? In that case, let’s hear it. What is this clue you’re speaking of?

First, we should think about how the culprit could get to the knife during the blackout.

We already figured that out… They used glow-in-the-dark paint for that, didn’t they?

That’s not it… I’m talking about before they used that.

Before…?

Does she mean… how could the culprit get to that table?

Even if the culprit used the glow-in-the-dark paint to actually pick up the knife… In order to get to that point they…

…They’d have had to actually find the table in the middle of the blackout.

Let’s check the state of things at the time… The map Koizumi drew can probably help us.

The one that shows where everyone was standing just before the blackout, right? Um… here it is.

…………

That’s it…! That map really is a clue…!
The way for someone to move to the table in pitch darkness…

…is clearly shown on this map.

In order to reach the table…

The culprit probably… used that to help them move through the dark.

SPOT SELECT START

Occasionally during the trial, we will be required to point out something in a still picture. Please try to ignore how this is copied directly form Phoenix Wright, even more so than the other trial elements.

IT’S HERE!

The culprit probably used the tabletop lamp in order to move to the table in the darkness.

That tabletop lamp…? You aren’t saying they used its light, are you?

With the lodge devoid of power? None could have used that lamp.

The culprit didn’t use the lamp’s light, of course. What he used was…

The lightbulb / The lamp’s weight / The tablecloth / The lamp cord

THIS PROVES IT!

The culprit didn’t use the lamp’s light. They used its power cord.

T…The power cord?

If they moved by following the cord, they could reach the table the lamp was standing on, right?

Then, after they moved all the way to the table, they could use the glow-in-the-dark paint as a landmark and get that knife.

On top of that… among all of us, there’s only one person who could have done that.

W…Who is that?

The person among us who could do all that…

SUGGEST A SUSPECT! 

I apologize that this update is much shorter than usual, but the game is forcing my hands here! Nevertheless, you’re also getting it mere hours after the last one, so just think of it as an extension.

IT COULD ONLY HAVE BEEN YOU!

…Komaeda, it was you, wasn’t it?

M…Me…?

When we check everyone’s positions just before the blackout… you were the only one who stood next to that cord.

In other words… you’re saying no one but Komaeda could have used that cord as a guide!

T…That’s just a coincidence!

But… Komaeda-kun also had a chance to set up the knife under the table, didn’t he…?

A chance to set up the knife under the table…

Right before the blackout / While he was cleaning / Right after the murder / Right after the blackout

I SEE!

Komaeda… you’d been cleaning the big hall the entire day since this morning, right?
 You had all the time in the world to place that knife there!

T…That’s…!

You were standing near the cord. You were chosen for cleaning duty. It’s strange how you’re the only one who can be connected to that knife!

I…I’m telling you, it’s a coincidence!

If it was only one thing, that would be possible… But two such coincidences are a little too much…
 Hmmm, I wonder… Is it really possible for such a coincidence to exist?

It’s even possible… that you set yourself up for cleaning duty so you could set up the knife there, right…?

Now that you mention it… It was Komaeda who prepared the chopsticks when we drew lots to decide on cleaning duty…

Actually, I, ah… I thought something like that might happen, so I prepared some in advance.

What, exactly, did he imagine would happen…? And who would even make that kind of thing in the first place…?

How about… cleaning duty goes to the person who pulls the chopstick with the red mark on it?
That’s fair, isn’t it?

So it wasn’t a regular lottery… you set it up somehow, didn’t you? You lost that drawing on purpose to get cleaning duty, didn’t you?

…………

I don’t know if he’s the culprit or not… But there’s an awful lot of evidence that makes him very suspicious…

U…uu…!

And… that strange act just now… Was that also part of your plan…?

You tried to dampen our spirits and cover up your crime, didn’t you?!

Is that right? Say something, right now!

Nn…n…!

Komaeda, if you have a counterargument, let’s hear it…! To tell you the truth, I don’t want to believe it…
 We investigated together… and you’ve been so kind… To think that you’re the culprit who killed Togami…

N…ngu…!

Komaeda, say something!!

Nn…nnnnnnnnnnnnnuuuu…!!

Ha…!

AHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!
 The Super High-school Levels stand together and rise against the despair of their friend’s death!
 Aa, this is such a magnificent, beautiful sight…!
 …Eh?

Those eyes…

Komaeda’s eyes just then…

They were like… darkness piled upon darkness, to the point the darkness itself was glowing brightly…

Those eyes… were a pulp of hope and despair, blending together. 

If I may start from the conclusion… you are completely correct! That’s right, everything was my doing!

It was me who set up the knife under the table before the party started.

It was also me who used the power cord to find the table in the dark.

And it was also me who set up that power outage in the first place, of course.
 I mean, I couldn’t just go and grab that knife while everyone was watching, could I?

H…His character’s completely broken down, hasn’t it?

But… I never imagined Togami-kun would go as far as bringing in night-vision goggles…
 Thanks to that, we encountered each other under the table… and you know how that ended.

But, I guess you could say that thanks to that unexpected occurrence, you had this interesting mystery to solve!

Ha ha! That sure was a splendid performance from Togami-kun!

G…Give me a break…! S…Seriously, what the hell…?!

Is… this what you’re really like? Have you been deceiving us all this time?

I haven’t been deceiving anyone! There’s no way I could deceive you guys!

I know better than anyone that I’m a lowly, good-for-nothing human being.

Harboring my own hopes and dreams would be presumptuous… Striving to exert myself would be… impertinent…

Yes, that’s the kind of decidedly inferior, foolish human being I am. The lowliest, worst kind of incompetent human being.

Oh no! This man is definitely the type who killed animals in his neighborhood when he was a kid!

The type who watches “Friday the 13th” with a gleam in his eyes… Just like me.

Bit of an unexpected hobby you have there… but… I guess now’s not the time.

I…Is this really…

…the same Komaeda I know?

Komaeda… If everything is indeed your doing, does that include the threatening letter…?

Of course.
 Who else but me could have this ugly, careless handwriting?

But, why did you send a warning?

Perhaps… somewhere, deep in my heart, I was looking for someone to stop my dark deeds…

…If I told you that was my reason, that would get me a little sympathy from everyone, wouldn’t it?

Are you making fun of us?!

Komaeda-kun probably sent the threat to Togami-kun in order to lead his actions.

How about we use the old lodge that’s off to the side of the hotel grounds?

So, leave the cleaning to me. I’m pretty good at it, actually!

And so, he managed to lead not only Togami but everyone else to the scene of the murder… Am I wrong?

Now that you mention it… It was the same when I went to guard the case. It was Komaeda who suggested I use the office.

That storage room is all messy and there’s no light there. And there are cobwebs everywhere…
I kinda had my hands full with this main hall, so I couldn’t give that storage its proper attention.
Yeah, I guess it’s not the nicest place to sit in for a whole night… Or the healthiest.
In that case… she can guard it at the office.

I see… if big sis Pekoyama went to the storage room, he wouldn’t have been able to use the iron setup anymore.

Both the threatening letter and that suggestion… all manipulations leading us to his trap.

Yes, you’re all correct… except for one point.

H…Huh? W…What have we got wrong…?

It’s the lots we drew to decide on cleaning duty. You said I set that up ahead of time… but I didn’t.

Then how did you manage to pull the chopstick that gave you cleaning duty?!

I see… of course you don’t remember. Why would you remember the useless talent of someone as lowly as me?

Komaeda’s talent…?

His talent was…

Super High-school Level Bad Luck / Super High-school Level Good Luck / Super High-school Level Boyish Face / Super High-school Level Pot-luck Dinner Organizer

I SEE!

Super High-school Level Good Luck… So, you really…!

Yes, I simply believed in my own luck. I knew I would probably get cleaning duty.

Y…You just left it up to fate?!

Oh, I didn’t just leave it up to fate… My talent may be garbage, but it’s still “Super High-school Level Good Luck”.

Huh? It’s me?!
Ha ha… So much for “Super High-school Level Good Luck”…

At the time, Hinata-kun joked about how unlucky I was… But it’s just the opposite…
 I was very lucky! I was chosen for cleaning duty, just as I desired!

…………
 T…That’s enough… I don’t care about that anymore…

Answer me! Why did you kill Togami?!

Togami-kun was an outstanding, talented leader, wasn’t he…? Someone like him getting killed sure is despair-inducing, isn’t it…?

That’s why he was perfect as a stepping stone to make you - the symbols of hope - shine even more.

That’s why I did it all!

S…Stop saying incomprehensible things!

Enough… let’s get to the vote! Let’s kill this weirdo!

Please, Monobear-chan!!

W…Wait a second!!

…Ah? What now?

U…Um… H…How should I put it… Um…

I…I was wondering if… Komaeda-san really is the culprit…

Um… what are you saying? He even confessed, didn’t he?

I…I know, but… um… There’s something that concerns me a little…

If it only concerns you a little, keep your mouth shut… Having to watch your ugly face makes me all stressful and nauseous…

Hiii…?! I…I’m sorry!!

Um… Should we not at the very least hear what she has to say?

B…But, we already know who the culprit is…

Surely, there is no harm in hearing her out?

Mark my words, timorous one! Your testimony will receive all due diligence. We, at least, are… sanguine… on the matter. 

Tutorial posted:
From this point on, discussions will be hindered by intermittent “white noise” dialogue.
White noise serves only to distract you, and, worse, blocks Evidence Bullets – preventing them from reaching Weak Points.
You may find it necessary to carefully time the shooting of Evidence Bullets so as to avoid hitting white noise instead of your target.
By the way, if you chose the “kind” action difficulty level, white noise will not appear at all.
If that’s the case, this tutorial is completely meaningless. Yes, meaningless.
But, no! I shall not fall into despair!
Allow me to make one more meaningless statement before we go on.
This time, there is still no way for you to destroy the white noise. That will come later.
You may press the START button at any time to view an explanation of the controls.
The rest is up to you… We wish you luck.

“White noise” dialogue will be presented in italics under the regular discussion lines.
Keep an eye on Komaeda during this video. Sometimes, the engine’s habit of leaving characters in whatever pose they were in for their last line produces magnificent side effects.

DISCUSSION START

Evidence Bullets: Tsumiki’s Examination Results / Nidai’s Testimony / Mioda’s Testimony / Nanami’s Testimony / Souda’s Testimony

Um… the thing that concerns me is…

We already know the culprit is Komaeda-kun!
That’s certainly true…

Um… b…but, you see…

He has even confessed. 
There’s no reason to deny that!

B…But… um…

That bastard Komaeda…

…stabbed Togami with the knife he had hidden!
And that’s the end of it!

Uu… I can’t handle it, after all… 
W…Wait a second, everyone!

Look how much time that dirty bitch wasted! 
Let’s at least hear her out!

In that case, let us move on and enjoy the vote. 

The reason for Tsumiki’s concern…
There must be some kind of contradiction between what she knows and the state of the crime scene…

…and it should be pretty obvious, because one of the evidence bullets has her name in it.

Tsumiki’s Examination Results >>> stabbed Togami with the knife he had hidden!

YOU’VE GOT THAT WRONG!

That knife probably wasn’t the murder weapon… is that what worries you, Tsumiki?

What are you talking about? That knife has to be the murder weapon.

But… judging from the wounds on Togami-san’s body, the murder weapon should be about 5 millimeters in diameter…

5 millimeters in diameter? That’s much thinner than a knife!

Rrr! You had better be damn sure about this!! If you’re wrong, I’ll have you kidnapped and sold overseas!

Hiiiiiii! I…I don’t wanna go overseas!

Hey! Don’t threaten her!!

In summary, what Tsumiki-san is trying to say is…
 …that since we can’t prove that the knife is the murder weapon, we also can’t say for certain that I am the culprit.

W…What are you saying?! Are you telling us someone other than you is the culprit?!

I’m not saying anything. It was Tsumiki-san who said it.

I…I’m sorry!

…………
 Hey, Komaeda-kun. Are you, perhaps, still hiding something?

T…There’s more?

Like… maybe something happened between Togami-kun and Komaeda-kun that we still don’t know about…

Who knows?

…Hrmph. What is left for him to hide?

………

Aww, that’s so annoying! He’s gone all quiet now that things aren’t going his way!

What did happen during that blackout? Hmmmmm…. Hmmmmm…..

Ah! When Ibuki crosses her eyes everyone here doubles!

Don’t just give up like that! There’s lives on the line!

Eh? Whose lives are on the line?

When the hell are you going to get what the rules are?!

No one could see anything during the blackout… Try as you might, the truth shall remain hidden in darkness.

Heh… Not a bad metaphor, coming from the likes of me, is it? The metaphorical “darkness” is an analogue for-

No. You’re wrong.

…Wrong? How am I wrong?

You said “the truth shall remain hidden in darkness”… but it won’t.

We still have something that can illuminate the situation… so to speak.

Mioda’s Testimony

THAT PROVES IT!

It’s true that no one could see anything during the blackout. But that doesn’t mean no one could hear anything.
 …Isn’t that right, Mioda?

Is it?!

D…Don’t just forget all about it!

Don’t you remember telling us about it? You know, about who said what while the lights were out…

C…Calm down, everyone! We have to keep calm at a time like this!
Waaah! Don’t step on my feet!
Oy, what are you doing?!
Stop it!!
Ow!
Turn on the lights! It’s hard to eat this way!
Hey, everyone! Where are you? T…This power outage… it isn’t just in the kitchen?
Could someone perhaps have flipped the circuit breakers?
W…Wait here! I’ll use the walls as a guide and go see if I can’t fix this…!

As expected from a “Super High-school Level Light Music Club Member”! That’s amazing, being able to distinguish the voices like that!

Her face, brains, style and personality may be a failure, but at least she has good ears!

Tahaaaa! Ibuki’s been stabbed with the knife of a fine argument!

But, listening to Togami and Komaeda’s words during the blackout…

Oy, what are you doing?!
Stop it!!
Ow!

It almost sounds like… Komaeda was met with a counterattack from Togami…

Well, that would be because I was.

Eh?

I guess I should show my respect for Mioda-san’s talent… and make a small confession.

The truth is, I was pushed away by Togami-kun. Right there under the table.

You were pushed away… by Togami-kun?

When the lights went out, I quickly crawled under the table to retrieve the hidden knife, but…
 Togami-kun, wearing his night-vision goggles, found me and pushed me away from the table.

That’s right… I am the worst kind of incompetent fool… I couldn’t even get to my own knife…

So… when Komaeda was about to get his knife, he was seen by Togami…

…And before he could reach that knife, he was pushed from under the table?

When you listen to their words during the blackout…

Oy, what are you doing?!
Stop it!!
Ow!

…It certainly sounds that way. In fact, I’d go as far as to say…

…It can’t be anything else.

After I was pushed from under the table, I joined the rest of you in your simple state of confusion.
 I’d lost my glow-in-the-dark landmark, and I couldn’t tell where the electric cord was anymore.

Then, after a while, the lights came back on and we found Togami-kun’s body under the table…

W…Wait just a second!

So… Are you trying to say you’re not the culprit?

Ever since we decided to hold the party, I’ve been planning…
 Hiding the knife and setting up the power outage… those were certainly parts of the plan…

But, unfortunately, my plan ended in failure, all because of Togami-kun and his night-vision goggles…

What happened after the plan failed… I do not know myself.

E…Ended up in failure…? So… you’re saying you couldn’t kill Togami?

T…This time we really are back on square one!

Back on square one?! After all that discussion?!

“Meaningless”… There is no word that is more despair-inducing.

But, you must not give up! You must face forward with hope in your hearts, and do your best!
 You are the symbols of hope! You can recover and rise up again, as many times as is required!

…………

Is Komaeda… really not the culprit?

And before that… is that really the Komaeda I knew?

No… I can’t say I “knew” Komaeda at all…
I thought I knew him… but I didn’t. I had no idea.

I never knew… what he was really like.

That’s… all there is to it.

But… now’s not the time to worry about that.
Whatever we do… we must expose the culprit who killed Togami.

Because…

If we can’t…

…It’s all over!

Well, then. We’re almost ready for the climax of the school trial, but… 
 First, here’s a short quiz! 
 Hoeh? What’s this, all of a sudden?! 
 I was thinking anyone who already knows who the culprit is should get a chance to name them right here and now. 
 Anyone who fails to indentify the culprit will have their save data corrupted, but… 
 I think I will award anyone who succeeds one billion yen. 
 O…One billion yen?! 
 Anyone who still doesn’t know who the culprit is may simply proceed without answering, of course. 
 So, what’s your choice, you bastards?! 

Continue / Guess the Culprit 

Well, I’m game. It was clearly- 

That was a fake! It wasn’t a real choice at all! 
 There’s no way I’m going to let you guess the culprit right now! 
 I’m not going to give you one billion yen, either! 
 You fiend! You truly are a fiend!! 

Aww. But, judging by some of the discussion in the thread, I’m far from the only one who would’ve gone for this. 

I’m Monomi! And right now, my heart is beating vewy fast! 

Byakuya Togami-kun, who was everyone’s leader, has been killed… And they say one of my students is the culpwit! 

No! I won’t believe it! I will never believe it! 

I mean… the only thing I believe in is my students. 

So… do your best, everyone! And remember – save early, save often! 

Well, then. What are we to do now? 
 If we agree the knife wasn’t the murder weapon, then there’s no conclusive evidence showing I’m the murderer. 

Y…You should keep your mouth shut! This is up for the rest of us to decide! 

H…He said he was pushed away from under the table… but we don’t know that for sure, do we? 

The pretentious one is correct. That some other weapon was used should not itself lift our suspicions… 

B…But… there is another reason Komaeda-san can’t be the culprit… 

Huh?! There’s more?! 

We all agree that the culprit killed Togami-san under the table… don’t we? 

Is that… a problem? 

Um… I thought Komaeda-san was too clean to be the culprit. 

Ah! Someone’s finally complimenting me for my impeccable personal hygiene! Even my mother never praised me for anything! 

Uyu… Ah! No! That’s not what I meant! 

Oh… I get it. When Tsumiki called Komaeda “clean”, she meant… 

He had no blood on him / He wasn’t dusty / He wasn’t injured / He wasn’t carrying a weapon 

I SEE! 

What you’re saying is that Komaeda didn’t have any blood on him, right? 

Y…Yes! That’s it! 

I mean… there was a lot of blood splattered all over under the table, wasn’t there? 
 There were even splatters of blood all over the tablecloth… 

If he really had killed Togami under that table, it is strange that he did not get any blood on him… 

Oh? As you can see, there isn’t any blood on me at all. 

Maybe… he simply used something to avoid the blood! 

But, what is that “something”? Was there something that could be used to avoid the blood splatter…? 
 Oh… Actually, there was. Isn’t that right, Hinata-kun? 

There was indeed… Something that could be used to avoid getting blood on yourself… 

Tablecloth in the Storage Room 

THAT PROVES IT! 

There was a tablecloth with blood on it in the storage room… Is that what you’re talking about? 

If there was blood on it, that must be it! Komaeda must have used it under the table to avoid the blood! 

But, it was found in the storage room, was it not? Are we to believe he carried it there, after the murder? 

Do you mean after the lights came back on? What did he plan to do if someone saw him? 

That’s right… that tablecloth was pretty large, so carrying it through the lodge in order to hide it… 

Furthermore, it was enough trouble grabbing the knife in the darkness. Stabbing someone while wrapped in a tablecloth on top of that… 

I don’t think the most talented people in this room could do that… let alone someone at my level. 

S…So… What does it mean…? 

………… 
 Perhaps… the culprit didn’t stab Togami-kun under the table. 

…Eh? 

Impossible. That the victim died under the table is beyond question. 

With the blood splattered all over the tablecloth… It’s clear that that’s where Togami-san was killed… 

True. Togami-san was stabbed under the table. But… that doesn’t mean that that’s where he was stabbed from. 

Frankly, that makes no sense at all! 

The place where Togami was stabbed and the place the culprit stabbed him from… are different? 

Oh? Hinata-kun… Your face suggests you just figured something out. 

R…Really?! You got that… riddle thing she just said?! 

I feel as if I’m about to get it… but it’s still vague… 

It’s a place that both is under the table and isn’t under the table. That’s the only thing that makes sense! 

You start with that notion… drop your preconceptions… and pick the right answer! …I think. 

Tutorial posted:
The time has come to reason out an important keyword. This is done through “Flashing Anagram (Renewal)”. 
The goal of this stage is to line up letters in the correct order, and make up a keyword that has to do with the case at hand. 
“Flashing Anagram (Renewal)” is a little bit like a puzzle game. 
Various letters will fly out from each corner of the screen. There are only two rules you must remember… 
(1) When two different letters clash, you receive damage. 
(2) When two of the same letter clash, they fuse. 
You should strive to make two of the same letter clash, while avoiding clashing different letters… 
Those are the basics. 
The tools we are giving you to achieve this are called “Catch” and “Release”. 
Move the scope with the analog pad. When the scope is pointed at a letter, you can press the circle button to catch it! 
We call that “catching the letter”. 
Bear in mind that you can only have one letter caught at a time. 
When you have caught a letter, pushing the circle button will release it where the scope is. 
We call that “releasing the letter”. 
Use catch and release to move the letters around, and make the correct pairs clash together. 
When you successfully clash two of the same letter, they fuse together. Fused letters become larger and stay in place. 
When you aim at a fused letter and push the circle button, that letter explodes and is removed from the game field. 
We call that “exploding the letters”. 
Catch with the circle button! Release with the circle button! Explode with the circle button! 
That button really is amazing! 
But… You cannot clear the stage just by exploding letters. 
After all, the goal of “Flashing Anagram (Renewal)” is the complete a keyword. 
By pushing the square button you can remind yourself of the question at hand. Please try to reason out the answer to that question. 
As for assembling the answer… 
You can use the triangle button, instead of the circle button, to target fused letters. 
When you do, the fused letter still explodes, but it is also sent to the answer board. 
If the letter is correct, it will be added to the answer. If it is not, you will receive damage. 
The answer must be assembled in the correct order. Please reason out the correct answer from the choice of letters flying around. 
By the way… If you leave a fused letter in play for too long, it will self-destruct. 
This will damage you, so try not to leave fused letters unattended. 
Wow… That was a long explanation… I hope it was clear. 
…Perhaps it would be easier for you to just try it. 
You may press the START button at any time to view an explanation of the controls. 
The rest is up to you… We wish you luck. 

The place Togami was stabbed and the place the culprit stabbed him… were not the same. 

“Start with that notion, drop my preconceptions, and pick the right answer”… She makes it sound so easy… 

I feel… something flashing in my mind… 

I think I just need a little more… until I see the answer! 

FLASHING ANAGRAM START 

Watch the video to see how this works in practice. This is much better as a game than DR1’s version of Flashing Anagram, though I feel it’s still the weakest point of the trials. It also gets pretty difficult later. As you can see in the video, I take some damage even at this stage, where things are slow and easy. That’s for LP demonstration purposes, of course - that’s my excuse and I’m sticking to it. 

C R A W L S P A C E 

OF COURSE! 

I’ve got it… the culprit stabbed Togami from the crawlspace under the floor, didn’t he?! 

H…He was stabbed through the floor?! 

The old lodge’s floor is full of gaps, and the carpet didn’t reach all the way to that table. 
 If someone pushed a weapon through one of those gaps… they could probably stab and kill Togami. 

In that case, the culprit would have to get into that crawlspace. How did they do that? Where is the entrance? 

I don’t know… but I think I have an idea who might. 

Someone was definitely under there… recently, too! They have to know the way to get there! 

SUGGEST A SUSPECT! 

IT COULD ONLY HAVE BEEN YOU! 

Hey, Tanaka… you dropped your earring back at the big hall, didn’t you. 

You mean, the Devildog Earring? 

That earring… 

…You mean, the Devildog Earring? 

…The Devildog earring… ended up under the floor, right? 

I…It’s there… 
It’s there! My Devildog Earring!! 
Fuha! Fuhahaha! God favors Gundam Tanaka alone! 
That’s great. 
………….. 
…But, how do I get it out of there? 
My hand will not fit through this gap, and it seems no tool can reach far enough in… 

Hmhmhm… Long and arduous was the search. By its end, I was ready to raze that accursed lodge to the ground… 

But, just as the ancient prophecies foretold it would, the Devildog Earring found its way back to its rightful owner! 

That earring… it’s the one that’s on your ear right now, isn’t it? 

Eh? So, you…?! 

Tanaka didn’t have the earring during the investigation… 

But just before the trial he had it back on. 

That means that during the investigation, he managed to retrieve his earring from under the floor. 

And so, it means he must know a way to get under the floor? 

Hmhmhm… It is no wonder that your bead-like eyes could not perceive the truth… 

But you were wrong! The power of the Four Dark Gods of Destruction renders every obstacle insignificant! 

Behold, the power of their Fourth Eye of Evil! 
 Yes… Before this Evil Eye, visual chaos becomes order! 

What am I going to do?! Just listening to him speak is embarrassing! 

GRAAAAAH! EXPLAIN IT LOUDLY AND CLEARLY, LIKE A MAAAAAN! 

So be it, then! I shall tell you! The answer to this mystery lies in the storage room! 

“Mirage Silver Falcon” Cham-P of the Four Dark Gods of Destruction perceived it within the chaos. 
 He discovered the “Passage of Doom” concealed among the piles of boxes… 
 I then acquired a lighter from the supermarket, and stepped into the space, unafraid to face the danger ahead… 
 And there I claimed the spoils of my solitary battle… the Devildog Earring, mine again at last! 

Fuaahahaha! You know now the extent of my powers… Will you tremble in fear? Or kneel in reverence? 

You sure you’re not exaggerating just a teensy weensy bit? Aren’t you just a breeder? 

Anyway… it would seem he entered the crawlspace from the storage room. 

In that case, that’s also where the culprit entered it from. 

It didn’t look as though the lodges walls extend down there, so it wouldn’t be very far from the storage room to the hall. 

Hmm… if they went by the storage room, that would explain why the tablecloth was there. 

The culprit snuck into the crawlspace from the storage room, and sent the weapon fwap into Byakuya-chan! 

Hmmm… is that really what happened? 

It might not have been fwap… maybe something more befitting a large mass, like splat or something? 

No, I wasn’t talking about the sound effect… 

If someone snuck into the crawlspace, that means they’d have had to slip out of the party, doesn’t it? 
 But… No one did… did they? 

In that case, the culprit is someone who wasn’t at the party at all. All they had to do was wait under the floor the entire time. 

…Remind me. Who wasn’t at the party? 

I wasn’t, but… I was standing guard at the lodge’s entrance. Monomi over there can confirm that… right? 

Yes, Monomi over here can confiwm that! 

I don’t think it bears repeating, but… I was in the bathroom, and couldn’t leave… 

I was in the kitchen most of the time, but I carried food to the hall now and then. 

Um… so the person who wasn’t at the party is… 

As far as I can tell from the pictures I’d taken… 

…He’s the only one left, right? 

………… 

Yay! This proves it! 

T…This proves nothing! I’m not the damn culprit! 

Aren’t you…? Remind me who was it that said he won’t hesitate to kill any of us? 

Shut your mouth! I’ll kill you! 

See? There he goes again! 

Oh, that sure hits the spot. Finally, some excitement I can approve of! 

Tutorial posted:
Good news! We have secured permission to authorize use of the “silencer”. 
Use it by pushing the circle button. There is no limit to its use. 
Using the silencer, you may shoot away “white noise”. 
When you successfully shoot white noise, you will gain back a small amount of time. 
On the other hand, if you try to silence anything other than white noise, you’ll lose some time. 
Therefore, we urge you to only use the silencer on white noise. 
If you chose the “kind” action difficulty level, white noise won’t appear at all, and so… 
…while you may still use the silencer, there won’t be much point. 
That is, unless you like the bang bang sound it makes. I can sympathize. Isn’t it a great sound? 
Bang! Bang bang! Bangbangdangbangbang! 
You may press the START button at any time to view an explanation of the controls. 
The rest is up to you… We wish you luck. 

DISCUSSION START 

Evidence Bullets: Souda’s Testimony / Nidai’s Testimony / Mioda’s Testimony / Hanamura’s Testimony / Nanami’s Testimony 

During the party, the culprit… 

Lay waiting under the floor, like a cockroach. 
With Kuzuryuu’s height… 
Yes, it’s possible… 

In that case, not only did he have a perfect view of the girls’ panties… 
That’s just you… 

…He didn’t have to go to the storage room when it was dark! 

How about it, Fuyuhiko-chan?! 

Don’t just decide to make me the culprit! 
That reaction sure is suspicious! 

But, after the party started… 

…No one saw you at all. 

That means you have no alibi! 
I concur with big sis Koizumi!	
That girl…! 

Being suspected is merely an axiom… 

Kuzuryuu is the only person without an alibi during the party… and that’s why he’s the culprit? 

Not only is this still pretty simple, the white noise isn’t even obstructing the Weak Points! 

Nanami’s Testimony >>> That means you have no alibi! 

YOU’VE GOT THAT WRONG! 

No, Kuzuryuu did have an alibi. Isn’t that right, Nanami? 

Um… Oh, that’s right. 

…Huh? Why are you here, Kuzuryuu-kun? 
I…I could ask you the same question… Why the hell are you standing here all by yourself…? 
I’m on guard. I’m keeping Monobear out of the party. 
Heh… Must be a pain… 

I saw Kuzuryuu-kun after the party had already started, so he couldn’t have been hiding under the floor since before the party. 

Why didn’t you tell them that faster, you shithead? 

Why didn’t you tell them? And why were you loitering around the lodge anyway? 

S…Shut up… 

Maybe there’s a secret passage from outside the lodge to the crawlspace, and he was scouting for it… 

…Shut the fuck up, asshole!! 

Yaaaaaa!! 

Waaah! He’s happy being shouted at?! 

No… the crawlspace cannot be entered from outside. With the aid of the thoughtful one, I confirmed as much… 

So, someone did sneak into the crawlspace from the storage room during the party, then? 

It probably wasn’t just during the party… but during the power outage… 

Ah… If someone disappeared during the blackout, it’s not so strange that we didn’t notice. 

But, walking from the hall to the storage room in the dark is like trying to make Eggs Benedict without eggs! 

He’s right… I couldn’t even find the office, which is right next to the hall… 

………… 
 But, was it really impossible? 
 I think we should explore this possibility just a little longer… 

In that darkness? It was definitely impossible to move to the storage room! 

But… something is definitely not right here. I feel like there’s something we’re missing… 

I have to find what that is, and so, once more… 

Somehow… it seems we’re reaching a conclusion… 

The culprit and the innocents… we will soon discover whose Super High-school Level is superior. 

DISCUSSION START 

Evidence Bullets: Kitchen Equipment List / Advance Notice of a Crime / Duralumin case / Party Food / Fire Door 

The corridor was completely dark during the outage, right? 

Moving all the way to the storage room in those conditions… 

That’s like a bowl of kaisendon without any fish! 
That actually doesn’t sound so bad! 

Kaisendon (seafood donburi) is a rice bowl dish topped with a variety of seafood. 

I wonder, is it really completely impossible? 

Maybe they used a cord, like Komaeda did? 
A cord…? 
That’s probably easy to hide… 

Maybe they had their own night-vision goggles? 
But, even if they did…	
…Togami would have confiscated them, right? 

This is annoying, so I’ll just go with my intuition… 

They used light. That would do it, wouldn’t it? 
Was… Was that a joke…? 

It was impossible after all… 

The way the culprit moved through the darkness… It has to be one of those options… 

…And I think I can prove which one! 

Sometimes, the least complicated answer is the correct one. 

Kitchen Equipment List >>> They just used light. That would do it, wouldn’t it? 

I CONCUR! 

That’s it! The culprit used light! 

Oh! I was right?! 

But, where did they get light from? 

They had a light source. Here, it’s written right here in the equipment list for the kitchen. 

Fork x 20. Knife x 20. Spoon x 20. Skewer x 5. Frying pan x 3. Wine glass x 20… 
In addition, there’s even a barbecue griddle and a portable stove for hot pots. 
A griddle and a portable stove… I found them on the shelf over there. 
They seem to be in excellent condition. Certainly very much usable. 

…It’s the portable stove. 

P…Portable stove?! 

You can turn on a portable stove even when there’s no electricity, and you can even carry it around… 

The culprit used that portable stove, and moved through the corridor all the way to the storage room! 

I see… that portable stove is a plausible explanation, but your reasoning still has a hole in it. 

…Eh? 

What hole might that be? Please tell us all about it. 

Ah! I didn’t mean that in a dirty way! I really didn’t! 

Denying it so loudly just makes you more suspicious! 

So, Hinata-kun! How about a little one-on-one with me?! 

You’ve got that wrong. 

…I wonder. Will you be able to crush my counterargument? 

O…One-on-one…? Is he… enjoying this…? Is this a game to him? 

Shit! I can’t lose to someone like him! 

COUNTERARGUMENT SHOWDOWN START 

Evidence Blades: Fire Door / Kitchen Equipment List / Night-vision Goggles / Tablecloth in the Storage Room / Party Food 

Have you forgotten Souda-kun’s testimony from before? 

He said he couldn’t reach the office. 

But, the light from the portable stove you claim was used… 

…Would contradict that testimony. 

Or maybe, you mean to doubt Souda-kun’s entire story? 

DEVELOPMENT 

I have no reason to doubt Souda’s story! 

What are you even trying to say…?! 

If Souda-kun failed to reach the office… 

That means the corridors were completely dark, doesn’t it? 

But, if someone used light in those pitch-black corridors… 

They would be seen by Souda-kun, wouldn’t they? 

I mean, he was loitering there for a while. 

He’s right - if someone used light in that corridor, that would certainly be noticeable. 

In that case… the culprit somehow managed to use light without catching Souda’s attention… 

The game is starting to throw multiple Weak Points at us in these segments too. So, what did the culprit do to avoid being seen? 

Fire Door >>> They would be seen by Souda-kun, wouldn’t they? 

I’LL CUT THAT CLAIM TO PIECES! 

Komaeda… have you forgotten? Or are you just pretending to? 

…Eh? What are you talking about? 

There was a “wall” that can block light in that corridor. 

…The fire doors. 

If someone closed them, they could make a perfect wall blocking off the corridor. 
 And that’s not all… just past the fire doors the corridor quickly makes a sharp turn… 
 …So even if you only have a short opening… as soon as you round that corner you’re out of sight. 

I see, so you noticed the fire doors. As expected from a Super High-school Level – 

– Oops… you still don’t remember your own talent yet, do you? 

T…That doesn’t matter right now…! 

Komaeda. What is the meaning of this? You are putting up a lot of resistance for someone who is not the culprit. 

You don’t have to speak in such a scary voice. When you’re mad, remember - take deep breaths! 

Are you ever gonna shut the fuck up? Do you need some help with that?! 

Hey! I don’t mind fighting, but not violent fighting that pulls in unrelated parties! 

And would you just decide on a culprit, already? You know, if this gets boring, I can just add a time limit… 

Alright… So. Time for me to hand over the baton, is it? 

H…Hand over the baton? 

It’s time for the real culprit, not a fake like me, to make their appearance! 

Ku… I’d say you probably are the culprit. 

If that’s what you think, I don’t mind. 

I’m going to accept any conclusion you guys make, as long as it’s one all of you Super High-school Levels reach together. 

………… 

“The real culprit”… He’s saying it’s time to indicate who that is… 
I really don’t want to accuse anyone… I don’t want to do it, but… 

But… I have no choice, do I? 

They used those fire doors to block off the corridor, and moved through the darkness using the portable stove… 
Then, they snuck into the crawlspace, used the glow-in-the-dark paint as a landmark and stabbed Togami to death. 

If that’s what happened… If the culprit did all that… 

…then there’s only one person it could be! 

SUGGEST A SUSPECT!

Let's Mirror: Super Dangan Ronpa 2!
An alternative to Something Awful

I AM NOT THE AUTHOR OF THIS LP
ALL CONTENT CREDIT TO ORENRONEN
THIS BLOG CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR DR1
VIEW AT YOUR OWN RISK
 Table of Contents | FAQ | Ask Box | Source Thread 

23 Jul

Super High-school Level Update #36
Important announcement from the Hope’s Peak Academy Field Trip Executive Committee: I know some of you are simply watching the videos instead of reading through the update. If this applies to you, please note that there’s a lengthy piece of commentary from me at the very end of this update. 

IT COULD ONLY HAVE BEEN YOU! 

Hanamura… It was you, wasn’t it? 

………… 

Eh, what?! What’re you talking about?! 

H…Hanamura is the culprit…? Really?! 

W-W-What’re you saying?! There’s no way it’s me! 

This is just my theory right now, of course… so, if you have any counterarguments, by all means, let’s hear them. 

C-C-Counterarguments…? W…Why’re you even treating me like a culprit…? 

Because… the portable stove that was used as a light was in the kitchen. 

T…T…That’s why you think I’m the culprit?! That’s just arbitrary! 

It’s cruel! You’re far too cruel!! 

Ah… Hanamura-kun… This isn’t like you at all. 
 You’re in possession of a wonderful talent… You’re a Super High-school Level Cook. You can’t just break apart like that… 

C…Chef… I’m a Chef… 

If you succumb to these dubious aspersions, who’s going to hold the culinary world together? 

T…The culinary world…? 

Yes! For the sake of the future of cuisine, pull yourself together, and face the accusations! 

T…That’s right… Yes, you’re right…! 

By the way, what’s an “aspersion”? Does it taste good? 

Asbestos is also excellent, you know. How about you try some later? 

Komaeda… Why are you poking your nose into this?! 

Let’s assume the culprit did use light. And let’s assume they used the fire doors to mask their actions… 
 That would get them to the storage room and then allow them to crawl under the floor. But what then? 
 The crawlspace is completely dark too. How did they manage to stab Togami-kun? 

Don’t try to tell me they had the stove on as they stabbed. If they did that, the target would spot them, and the game would be up! 

T…That’s right… What do you have to say about that?! 

T…That’s… 

You can’t answer, can you? After all… you never investigated the crawlspace yourself, did you? 

We can ask Tanaka! He’s actually been in there! 

…Regrettably, nothing remained of the murderer’s paraphernalia in that dark dimension… 
 All was void, save for a ghostly phosphorescence around the blood pooled on the floor… 

W…What?! Did you say… there was light there?! 

That sounds super-important! 

If there was a “glowing landmark”, it was possible to move to that location even during the blackout. 

And after they moved to the designated location, they could target what that landmark was attached to, couldn’t they? 

The target… attached to the landmark? 

That “landmark” must have been… 

Knife 

THAT PROVES IT! 

The landmark was the glow-in-the-dark paint the knife was painted with, wasn’t it? 

Ah! Even in the dark, all they’d have to do is aim for the glow-in-the-dark paint! 

Of course… the culprit didn’t aim for a person… They aimed for the paint when it moved! 

That would be the moment someone took hold of the knife, wouldn’t it! 

So… the same landmark I prepared so I could find the knife was used by the culprit for his attack… 

I see… and that’s why Togami, who took the knife, was killed… 

But, if the culprit used that landmark, it would mean they knew about Komaeda-kun’s plan, wouldn’t it? 

What do you have to say to that, Hanamura?!! 

I… I know nothing… I really know nothing, I’m telling you… 

In that case, how about I pose a question for everyone? 

W…Why are you butting in again?! Give us a break, already! 

Now, now! It’s only fair to give everyone a chance to speak! 

Let’s say Hanamura-kun is the culprit. That would mean he went to the storage room during the blackout. 
 In that case, what was that conversation Mioda-san heard in the dark? 

Waaah! Don’t step on my feet! 
Oy, what are you doing?! 
Stop it!! 
Ow! 
Turn on the lights! It’s hard to eat this way! 
Hey, everyone! Where are you? T…This power outage… it isn’t just in the kitchen? 

She heard Hanamura’s voice… in the hall? 

I think that proves Hanamura-kun was in the big hall during the blackout… 

T…That’s right! That’s exactly right!! 

But, when the lights went out you were in the kitchen, weren’t you? So… how did you get to the hall? 

I…I thought the power outage was only in the kitchen, so I left it in a panic… 
 The corridors were dark as well, of course… so I followed everyone’s voices and used the walls as a guide to move. 

Hmm… It’s certainly possible to move from the kitchen to the halls by following the walls… but… 

…Something stinks here! 

You can tell that someone is lying by licking their sweat, can’t you, Owari-san? 

In that case, come here and lick me! 

I don’t wanna! You’re greasy! 

But, Ibuki definitely heard Teruteru-chan’s voice in the hall! Ibuki’s entire character setup hangs on that! 

That’s right, Hanamura-kun wasn’t in the storage room. He was in the hall. In other words… he can’t have been the culprit. 

…No, that’s not what it means. 

W…Why…? 

Why do you keep making all these accusations against me?! 

It’s not like I have anything against you… I just… 

Hinata-kun, you should be more confident in yourself. You’re following the hope you believe in, after all… 

………… 

That’s it, Hinata-kun… show me more of your hope. Your hope… against Hanamura-kun’s. Whose will prevail? 

DISCUSSION START 

Evidence Bullets: Night-vision goggles / Duralumin case / Knife / Blood around the table / Gaps in the floor 

First, let me ask once more… 

Was Hanamura-kun in the storage room during the blackout? 

O…Of course I wasn’t in the storage room! 

I was in a different place at that time! 
Liar! 

Ibuki heard Teruteru-chan’s voice! 

A beautiful voice, unfit for his face! 
What does that have to do with anything? 

Maybe it was a recorded voice? 
If it was recorded… …we could have heard it even if he was somewhere else! 

No, it was definitely a live voice! 
If Mioda is right… 

As long as that testimony exists… 

…You cannot deny I was at the hall! 
So, that is Hanamura-kun’s hope… …I see 

I’m sure there’s a big contradiction hidden somewhere in there… 

…I have to find it! 

I’m sure you all know where this is going… 

Gaps in the floor >>> …You cannot deny I was at the hall! 

I WILL STRIKE OUT THIS CONTRADICTION! 

The fact we heard Hanamura’s voice in the hall doesn’t prove that he was actually in the hall. 

Eh? W…Why…? 

Think about the floor in the hall… There are massive gaps all over it, aren’t there…? 

Which means, even if you spoke from under the floor, it would still sound like you were in the room with us. 

………… 

…Abebabeba?! 

I see… by speaking from under the floor, he tried to leave the impression he was there with us. 

…Is that right, Hanamura? 

W-W-W-Wait just a minute… 

W…What’s the meaning of this, Hanamura-san?! 

I TOL’ YA T’ WAI’ MINUTE! 

Hyaaaaaaaaa?! 

Y’IDIOTS’VE NO ‘DEA WHA’YA TALK’ ‘NABOUT! I’S’IN TH’ALL TH’OLE TIME DUR’N ‘BLACKOUT!! 

…Where did you say you were born? 

I’S BORN’N NISHI-AZABU N'RAISED’N MINAMI-AOYAMA! 

Hey, everyone! This guy’s totally a liar! 

………… 
 If Hanamura-kun was in the hall during the blackout, he should still have been there when the lights came back on, right? 

Yep, that sounds right. He can’t have been walking back and forth in the dark. 

Eh? Was… Hanamura there at that time? 

I…I’s…. I’s def’n’tly there… 

We can’t leave this to faint memories and gut feelings, can we? I mean, a man’s life is on the line. 

E’s righ’! Yer’ stup’d mem’rys’re worth nuthin’! Y’ain’t ‘sidin’ nuthin like’at! 

H…He’s definitely lying! His speech’s getting worse by the minute! 

But… I am not at all confident about this. I have a feeling he was there… but I feel like he also wasn’t… 

Nuuuuuu…! Isn’t there a way to tell for sure?! 

…Maybe we should test his memory? 

His… memory…? 

Hey, y’there. Qui’ sayin’s wor’less’ings! ‘Think y’c’n prov’wasn’ there?! 

…I think we can. 

Gege…! You’gain?! 

In order to prove whether Hanamura was in the hall after the blackout… 

We should ask him about… this! 

Embarrassing pose 

THAT PROVES IT! 

If you really was in the hall when the power came back on… 

…you should know all about what happened to Tsumiki, shouldn’t you?! 

W…Wha?! 

Hiyu! Please don’t remind me! I…It’s too embarrassing! 

No, this is an important question… 

How about it, Hanamura! You should be able to answer this if you really were in the hall! 

Eh? Eh? Uuuuum? 

That unique way of falling is not something one can forget easily. 

Fuah… I’m sorry… I’m sorry for making you watch this deplorable sight! 

H…How about it?! Can you answer, Teruteru-chan?! 

Um… um… 
 Huh? Oh? That’s peculiar… It seems I’ve forgotten all about it…! 

Someone like you, forget this…? I don’t think so. 

Um… but, nevertheless… 

K…Komaeda-kuuun! Say something! 

No… I think you have no choice but to give up… 

Wha… Give up…? What do you mean by… “give up”…? 

Hanamura-kun… You’re not the only one who’s disappointed. I am too. 
 It’s sad to see someone I respect reach the limits of their hope. I had such expectations… and you’re dashing them. 

Komaeda… What the hell’s wrong with you?! Why do you keep siding with the culprit and then turning on them…?! 

W-W-WAI'SEC’N! QUI’CALL’N ME’CULPRIT! 

Eh? But it’s decided already, isn’t it? 

D…D-D-D-D… Y-Y-Y… 

Y’ST’AIN’SCOVAW’THAM’DWEP’N’S!! 

That’s it. I can’t understand anything anymore! 

He seems to be saying you still haven’t discovered what the murder weapon was! 

You understand him?! 

But, that’s a sad qwarrel… It’s too much… 

AAAAAAAA’F’IMAC’PW’T’NT’LMWHA’WE’NW’S!! 

Hey, Monomi… Translate it for us, would you? 

U…Um… “If you think I’m the culpwit, then tell me what the weapon was”. 

The weapon… can’t have been the knife, can it? 

Judging from Togami-san’s wounds… it was a thin sharp object about 5 millimeters in diameter…! 

And what is more, to have inflicted such mortal wounds through the floor, it cannot have been shorter than 50 centimeters… 

…Is the weapon really important at this stage? 

IIIIII’SRIIIII’S!! 

“It is. It weally is.” 

Okay, I get it. Let’s think what the weapon could be. 

I’LEE’V’N’YA!! 

Um… “You guys don’t even know, do you?”. 

That’s one confusing dialect! 

A…Anyway, I must think! I must concentrate and think…! 

A sharp object about 5 millimeter in diameter… and about 50 centimeter long… 
I’m looking for something that could be used at the crime scene, and that fits those parameters… 

…Was there something like that? 

FLASHING ANAGRAM START 

S K E W E R 

OF COURSE! 

…That’s it. The murder weapon was a steel skewer, wasn’t it?! 

Eh?! A steel skewer?! 

Before the party started, Togami had this conversation with Hanamura when he was looking for dangerous items… 

According to this list… there is one steel skewer missing. 
Oh, that’s right… I believe it was missing since I first got here. 

Is that missing skewer the weapon?! 

That skewer fits the parameters perfectly! 

Oi, Hanamura! Where did you hide that skewer?! 

A…aa…aaaaaaaa… 

Avri'lavin! 

“Avril Lavigne”! 

Eh?! Just like that?! 

He’s just trying to confuse us by saying nonsense! You dumped that skewer somewhere on the island, right?! 

No, it is against the field trip rules to litter. If someone bwoke that rule, loud sirens would have gone off all awound the island… 

Loud sirens…? It’s only littering! Bit harsh, don’t you think?! 

Also… Hanamura-kun didn’t leave the lodge even once. I was guarding the entrance, so I can tell. 

In other words… the skewer must be hidden somewhere inside the lodge… 

It’s probably somewhere back in the kitchen! 

Hanamura… How about acting like a man and confessing? 

O…O…O…O…Oooooooo… 

Tutorial posted:
At long last, it is time for the final battle. 
Your opponent, having been cornered, has put a shielded fence around his heart, and will not listen to your arguments. 
Accusing a classmate is painful, but… this is a school trial. 
You must break into your opponent’s shielded heart, and beat him down with a final argument. 
It is a high-level argumentation battle against your opponent’s panicked excuses and lies… 
Yes, this is Machine-gun Tal – um, excuse me. This is Panic Talk Action. 
Let’s just call it PTA. 
During PTA, you must destroy your opponent’s shields, and finish him with a final argument. 
In order to do that, you must match the tempo of your opponent’s exclamations and destroy them. 
Please push the buttons matching the timing of the Tempo Marker displayed on the screen. 
Pushing and holding the circle button in accordance with the Tempo Marker allows you to Lock On to your opponent’s arguments. 
By holding the circle button, you may Lock On to several arguments at once. 
Then, by releasing the circle button in accordance with the Tempo Marker… 
You can intercept and destroy the arguments you have Locked On to. 
By destroying your opponent’s arguments, you inflict damage to their shielded heart. 
But, if you do not destroy your opponent’s argument within a certain time, they will hurt you instead. 
You may push the START button to see instructions. 
On this PTA, please concentrate on pushing the circle button. We will tell you about further complications another time. 
Finally, we should tell you how to deliver the final argument. 
Once all of your opponent’s shields are down, it is time to deliver the Final Counterargument. 
When the time comes… four words will be displayed on the top, bottom, left and right of the screen. 
The circle, triangle, square and cross buttons each match one word. 
Please push the buttons in the correct order and complete your final argument. 
This final argument, correctly formed, will be the decisive blow that defeats your opponent. 
However, if you fail to make the argument within a certain time, your opponent’s shields will recover a little bit, so be careful. 
The rest is up to you. We wish you luck. 

O…O…O…Oo…Ooooooooo… 

UNC’RTULODFUMPK’NSSK’URDK’OPTHO’LMEUTHSSKUT!! 

“Uncultured bumpkins should keep their mouths shut!”… is what he seems to be saying. 

It seems we have to do something to stop him after all… 

If the weapon was a skewer, it makes most sense to hide it in the kitchen. 
But… Togami and me searched the place thoroughly before the party started. 

In other words… it was already hidden in a place where we couldn’t find it at that time. 

Somewhere we wouldn’t think to look… 

Where would that be? Where can you hide something as long as a skewer? 

I have to figure it out…! 

D’AMNETHD’CKAN’TH’CK!! 

“I am not hiding anything”… probably! 

Y’HAV’NEID’WHOLOTH’WOAP’N’S!! 

I have to find the decisive evidence that shows Hanamura is the culprit… and stop him with it! 

PANIC TALK ACTION START 

This is a much improved version of last game’s Machine-gun Talk Battle. As the tutorial explained, instead of alternating between the circle and triangle buttons for locking-on and shooting, this time you have to hit the circle button on a beat to start locking on, keep it down, and then release it on another beat to shoot down the phrases you’ve locked on to. It works pretty well. 

You have no idea where the weapon is!! 

(top) Bone 
(left) on 
(right) Meat 
(bottom) a 

Meat on a Bone 

IT’S OVER! 

You hid the skewer… inside that meat-on-a-bone, didn’t you?! 

W-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w! 

W…What are you talking about…? There’s no way I’d hide a weapon somewhere like… 

H…How is that even possible?! It’s inside food!! 

Yeah… Togami and I also thought it was impossible… and that’s why we overlooked it. 

It doesn’t seem like this pile of food has anything dangerous in it, unlike that Churrasco before. 
I guess… 

Sigh… I almost thought he was going to say that bone could be used to bludgeon someone… 

Thinking another way… Inside the food was the only place we didn’t check. It’s the only possibility left for the hiding place… 

And of all the dishes on offer, the only one big enough to hold a long metal skewer… 
 …is that huge meat-on-a-bone! 

I…IS THAT TRUUUUUUUUE?! 

I…I exercise my right to remain silent! 

You don’t have one! 

I…In that case, we must check ourselves! 

Yes, let’s eat that delicious-looking meat. If we find the skewer there… bingo! 

Alright! Monomi, Monobear, anyone – go grab us that meat and bring it here! 

One minute… I’ll destroy that whole thing in just one minute! 

W-W-Wait just one moment! Time out! Time out! 

WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?!! BRING THAT MEAT OVER HERE NOW!! 

Ah… About that… 

………… 
 Huh…? Where did Monobear go? 
 I’m right here…! 

Om nom nom… I decided to get ahead of the game! 
 GYAAAA! THE BEAR IS EATING MEAT!! 
 …Well, actually, that’s not really so strange, huh? 
 Grom nom nom… This is so delicious. 
 Damn it! That’s my meat you’re eating! 
 I’ve never eaten like this before…! The taste brings back memories of my life in the wild… 

S-S-S-S-S-Stop! Really, stop right now! 
 Oh? There’s something inside this meat… 

Look what I found! 

T…That’s…! 

It’s a steel skewer, isn’t it…? 

Ah, he made the bone into a grip. That’s pretty elaborate. 

It is a Sword of Doom, with a bone hilt and a meat sheath! He used it to bring catastrophe upon Togami! 

I expected nothing less from Hanamura-kun! This is definitely a fantastic weapon, appropriate for a chef! 

Y…You’re wrong… I’m not the culprit… I’m not someone… who would ever kill anyone… 

I get it! It’s all your doing! You’re just trying to frame me! 

…………. 

Sigh… this is disheartening… 
 Struggling like this is unbecoming for a Super High-school Level student like you… You can’t call that “hope” at all, can you? 

Hey, Komaeda-kun… I’m sorry, but can you please stop talking? 

………… 

Y’ULOARR’FUNSTEBS’VAGOSWHEENRY’ATINST’INLOCH’ULANKS!! 

“You’re all a bunch of savages who only eat at chain restaurants!” 

Y…You can stop translating now… I think we all get the general idea! 

OV’LYEN’JUCHSK’TTH’BUNG’P!! 

I’ll handle Komaeda later… Right now, what’s more important… 

We have to bring this to an end… don’t we? 
 Let’s lay out our entire case… We’ll cover the whole incident, start to finish, with no room left for doubt… 

The entire incident… 
We’ll show beyond doubt that Hanamura is the culprit… 

That’s right… if I don’t do that, this will never end. 

I have no choice! 

— 

I want to talk a little bit about the downside of this being a screenshot LP. 

You see, when I first played the game, I was pretty stumped until quite a late stage. I had no idea who was the murderer until just a few minutes before the reveal. I know that’s also the case for many others who played the game. 

The reason for this is simple: the game pulls out quite a clever psychological trick on you. You see, Hanamura’s plan works pretty well - by hearing his voice loud and clear in the blackout scene, I was convinced he was also in the scene that immediately followed. I actually had false memories of lines from him. It helped that the scene immediately following the blackout is short, of course, and also that the player is quite anxious about a murder they know is coming. It also helps that the scene never comes up in flashbacks later. I think Sonia’s line in this update is meant to reflect the player’s thoughts, and the entire thing is executed perfectly for it to work. 

Except it doesn’t work in this screenshot medium, of course - people rereading the update understood very quickly that Hanamura was nowhere to be found in that scene, which pointed the suspicion toward him from the very beginning. That also made all the rest of the evidence pointing to him so much more obvious. It utterly breaks the clever misdirection the game constructs. 

Now, this was also a problem in the previous thread, of course, and I knew it was coming. But it’s also an especially sad example of the problem. 

Important announcement from the Hope’s Peak Academy Field Trip Executive Committee: I know some of you are simply watching the videos instead of reading through the update. If this applies to you, please note that there’s a lengthy piece of commentary from me at the very end of this update. 

IT COULD ONLY HAVE BEEN YOU! 

Hanamura… It was you, wasn’t it? 

………… 

Eh, what?! What’re you talking about?! 

H…Hanamura is the culprit…? Really?! 

W-W-What’re you saying?! There’s no way it’s me! 

This is just my theory right now, of course… so, if you have any counterarguments, by all means, let’s hear them. 

C-C-Counterarguments…? W…Why’re you even treating me like a culprit…? 

Because… the portable stove that was used as a light was in the kitchen. 

T…T…That’s why you think I’m the culprit?! That’s just arbitrary! 

It’s cruel! You’re far too cruel!! 

Ah… Hanamura-kun… This isn’t like you at all. 
 You’re in possession of a wonderful talent… You’re a Super High-school Level Cook. You can’t just break apart like that… 

C…Chef… I’m a Chef… 

If you succumb to these dubious aspersions, who’s going to hold the culinary world together? 

T…The culinary world…? 

Yes! For the sake of the future of cuisine, pull yourself together, and face the accusations! 

T…That’s right… Yes, you’re right…! 

By the way, what’s an “aspersion”? Does it taste good? 

Asbestos is also excellent, you know. How about you try some later? 

Komaeda… Why are you poking your nose into this?! 

Let’s assume the culprit did use light. And let’s assume they used the fire doors to mask their actions… 
 That would get them to the storage room and then allow them to crawl under the floor. But what then? 
 The crawlspace is completely dark too. How did they manage to stab Togami-kun? 

Don’t try to tell me they had the stove on as they stabbed. If they did that, the target would spot them, and the game would be up! 

T…That’s right… What do you have to say about that?! 

T…That’s… 

You can’t answer, can you? After all… you never investigated the crawlspace yourself, did you? 

We can ask Tanaka! He’s actually been in there! 

…Regrettably, nothing remained of the murderer’s paraphernalia in that dark dimension… 
 All was void, save for a ghostly phosphorescence around the blood pooled on the floor… 

W…What?! Did you say… there was light there?! 

That sounds super-important! 

If there was a “glowing landmark”, it was possible to move to that location even during the blackout. 

And after they moved to the designated location, they could target what that landmark was attached to, couldn’t they? 

The target… attached to the landmark? 

That “landmark” must have been… 

Knife 

THAT PROVES IT! 

The landmark was the glow-in-the-dark paint the knife was painted with, wasn’t it? 

Ah! Even in the dark, all they’d have to do is aim for the glow-in-the-dark paint! 

Of course… the culprit didn’t aim for a person… They aimed for the paint when it moved! 

That would be the moment someone took hold of the knife, wouldn’t it! 

So… the same landmark I prepared so I could find the knife was used by the culprit for his attack… 

I see… and that’s why Togami, who took the knife, was killed… 

But, if the culprit used that landmark, it would mean they knew about Komaeda-kun’s plan, wouldn’t it? 

What do you have to say to that, Hanamura?!! 

I… I know nothing… I really know nothing, I’m telling you… 

In that case, how about I pose a question for everyone? 

W…Why are you butting in again?! Give us a break, already! 

Now, now! It’s only fair to give everyone a chance to speak! 

Let’s say Hanamura-kun is the culprit. That would mean he went to the storage room during the blackout. 
 In that case, what was that conversation Mioda-san heard in the dark? 

Waaah! Don’t step on my feet! 
Oy, what are you doing?! 
Stop it!! 
Ow! 
Turn on the lights! It’s hard to eat this way! 
Hey, everyone! Where are you? T…This power outage… it isn’t just in the kitchen? 

She heard Hanamura’s voice… in the hall? 

I think that proves Hanamura-kun was in the big hall during the blackout… 

T…That’s right! That’s exactly right!! 

But, when the lights went out you were in the kitchen, weren’t you? So… how did you get to the hall? 

I…I thought the power outage was only in the kitchen, so I left it in a panic… 
 The corridors were dark as well, of course… so I followed everyone’s voices and used the walls as a guide to move. 

Hmm… It’s certainly possible to move from the kitchen to the halls by following the walls… but… 

…Something stinks here! 

You can tell that someone is lying by licking their sweat, can’t you, Owari-san? 

In that case, come here and lick me! 

I don’t wanna! You’re greasy! 

But, Ibuki definitely heard Teruteru-chan’s voice in the hall! Ibuki’s entire character setup hangs on that! 

That’s right, Hanamura-kun wasn’t in the storage room. He was in the hall. In other words… he can’t have been the culprit. 

…No, that’s not what it means. 

W…Why…? 

Why do you keep making all these accusations against me?! 

It’s not like I have anything against you… I just… 

Hinata-kun, you should be more confident in yourself. You’re following the hope you believe in, after all… 

………… 

That’s it, Hinata-kun… show me more of your hope. Your hope… against Hanamura-kun’s. Whose will prevail? 

DISCUSSION START 

Evidence Bullets: Night-vision goggles / Duralumin case / Knife / Blood around the table / Gaps in the floor 

First, let me ask once more… 

Was Hanamura-kun in the storage room during the blackout? 

O…Of course I wasn’t in the storage room! 

I was in a different place at that time! 
Liar! 

Ibuki heard Teruteru-chan’s voice! 

A beautiful voice, unfit for his face! 
What does that have to do with anything? 

Maybe it was a recorded voice? 
If it was recorded… …we could have heard it even if he was somewhere else! 

No, it was definitely a live voice! 
If Mioda is right… 

As long as that testimony exists… 

…You cannot deny I was at the hall! 
So, that is Hanamura-kun’s hope… …I see 

I’m sure there’s a big contradiction hidden somewhere in there… 

…I have to find it! 

I’m sure you all know where this is going… 

Gaps in the floor >>> …You cannot deny I was at the hall! 

I WILL STRIKE OUT THIS CONTRADICTION! 

The fact we heard Hanamura’s voice in the hall doesn’t prove that he was actually in the hall. 

Eh? W…Why…? 

Think about the floor in the hall… There are massive gaps all over it, aren’t there…? 

Which means, even if you spoke from under the floor, it would still sound like you were in the room with us. 

………… 

…Abebabeba?! 

I see… by speaking from under the floor, he tried to leave the impression he was there with us. 

…Is that right, Hanamura? 

W-W-W-Wait just a minute… 

W…What’s the meaning of this, Hanamura-san?! 

I TOL’ YA T’ WAI’ MINUTE! 

Hyaaaaaaaaa?! 

Y’IDIOTS’VE NO ‘DEA WHA’YA TALK’ ‘NABOUT! I’S’IN TH’ALL TH’OLE TIME DUR’N ‘BLACKOUT!! 

…Where did you say you were born? 

I’S BORN’N NISHI-AZABU N'RAISED’N MINAMI-AOYAMA! 

Hey, everyone! This guy’s totally a liar! 

………… 
 If Hanamura-kun was in the hall during the blackout, he should still have been there when the lights came back on, right? 

Yep, that sounds right. He can’t have been walking back and forth in the dark. 

Eh? Was… Hanamura there at that time? 

I…I’s…. I’s def’n’tly there… 

We can’t leave this to faint memories and gut feelings, can we? I mean, a man’s life is on the line. 

E’s righ’! Yer’ stup’d mem’rys’re worth nuthin’! Y’ain’t ‘sidin’ nuthin like’at! 

H…He’s definitely lying! His speech’s getting worse by the minute! 

But… I am not at all confident about this. I have a feeling he was there… but I feel like he also wasn’t… 

Nuuuuuu…! Isn’t there a way to tell for sure?! 

…Maybe we should test his memory? 

His… memory…? 

Hey, y’there. Qui’ sayin’s wor’less’ings! ‘Think y’c’n prov’wasn’ there?! 

…I think we can. 

Gege…! You’gain?! 

In order to prove whether Hanamura was in the hall after the blackout… 

We should ask him about… this! 

Embarrassing pose 

THAT PROVES IT! 

If you really was in the hall when the power came back on… 

…you should know all about what happened to Tsumiki, shouldn’t you?! 

W…Wha?! 

Hiyu! Please don’t remind me! I…It’s too embarrassing! 

No, this is an important question… 

How about it, Hanamura! You should be able to answer this if you really were in the hall! 

Eh? Eh? Uuuuum? 

That unique way of falling is not something one can forget easily. 

Fuah… I’m sorry… I’m sorry for making you watch this deplorable sight! 

H…How about it?! Can you answer, Teruteru-chan?! 

Um… um… 
 Huh? Oh? That’s peculiar… It seems I’ve forgotten all about it…! 

Someone like you, forget this…? I don’t think so. 

Um… but, nevertheless… 

K…Komaeda-kuuun! Say something! 

No… I think you have no choice but to give up… 

Wha… Give up…? What do you mean by… “give up”…? 

Hanamura-kun… You’re not the only one who’s disappointed. I am too. 
 It’s sad to see someone I respect reach the limits of their hope. I had such expectations… and you’re dashing them. 

Komaeda… What the hell’s wrong with you?! Why do you keep siding with the culprit and then turning on them…?! 

W-W-WAI'SEC’N! QUI’CALL’N ME’CULPRIT! 

Eh? But it’s decided already, isn’t it? 

D…D-D-D-D… Y-Y-Y… 

Y’ST’AIN’SCOVAW’THAM’DWEP’N’S!! 

That’s it. I can’t understand anything anymore! 

He seems to be saying you still haven’t discovered what the murder weapon was! 

You understand him?! 

But, that’s a sad qwarrel… It’s too much… 

AAAAAAAA’F’IMAC’PW’T’NT’LMWHA’WE’NW’S!! 

Hey, Monomi… Translate it for us, would you? 

U…Um… “If you think I’m the culpwit, then tell me what the weapon was”. 

The weapon… can’t have been the knife, can it? 

Judging from Togami-san’s wounds… it was a thin sharp object about 5 millimeters in diameter…! 

And what is more, to have inflicted such mortal wounds through the floor, it cannot have been shorter than 50 centimeters… 

…Is the weapon really important at this stage? 

IIIIII’SRIIIII’S!! 

“It is. It weally is.” 

Okay, I get it. Let’s think what the weapon could be. 

I’LEE’V’N’YA!! 

Um… “You guys don’t even know, do you?”. 

That’s one confusing dialect! 

A…Anyway, I must think! I must concentrate and think…! 

A sharp object about 5 millimeter in diameter… and about 50 centimeter long… 
I’m looking for something that could be used at the crime scene, and that fits those parameters… 

…Was there something like that? 

FLASHING ANAGRAM START 

S K E W E R 

OF COURSE! 

…That’s it. The murder weapon was a steel skewer, wasn’t it?! 

Eh?! A steel skewer?! 

Before the party started, Togami had this conversation with Hanamura when he was looking for dangerous items… 

According to this list… there is one steel skewer missing. 
Oh, that’s right… I believe it was missing since I first got here. 

Is that missing skewer the weapon?! 

That skewer fits the parameters perfectly! 

Oi, Hanamura! Where did you hide that skewer?! 

A…aa…aaaaaaaa… 

Avri'lavin! 

“Avril Lavigne”! 

Eh?! Just like that?! 

He’s just trying to confuse us by saying nonsense! You dumped that skewer somewhere on the island, right?! 

No, it is against the field trip rules to litter. If someone bwoke that rule, loud sirens would have gone off all awound the island… 

Loud sirens…? It’s only littering! Bit harsh, don’t you think?! 

Also… Hanamura-kun didn’t leave the lodge even once. I was guarding the entrance, so I can tell. 

In other words… the skewer must be hidden somewhere inside the lodge… 

It’s probably somewhere back in the kitchen! 

Hanamura… How about acting like a man and confessing? 

O…O…O…O…Oooooooo… 

Tutorial posted:
At long last, it is time for the final battle. 
Your opponent, having been cornered, has put a shielded fence around his heart, and will not listen to your arguments. 
Accusing a classmate is painful, but… this is a school trial. 
You must break into your opponent’s shielded heart, and beat him down with a final argument. 
It is a high-level argumentation battle against your opponent’s panicked excuses and lies… 
Yes, this is Machine-gun Tal – um, excuse me. This is Panic Talk Action. 
Let’s just call it PTA. 
During PTA, you must destroy your opponent’s shields, and finish him with a final argument. 
In order to do that, you must match the tempo of your opponent’s exclamations and destroy them. 
Please push the buttons matching the timing of the Tempo Marker displayed on the screen. 
Pushing and holding the circle button in accordance with the Tempo Marker allows you to Lock On to your opponent’s arguments. 
By holding the circle button, you may Lock On to several arguments at once. 
Then, by releasing the circle button in accordance with the Tempo Marker… 
You can intercept and destroy the arguments you have Locked On to. 
By destroying your opponent’s arguments, you inflict damage to their shielded heart. 
But, if you do not destroy your opponent’s argument within a certain time, they will hurt you instead. 
You may push the START button to see instructions. 
On this PTA, please concentrate on pushing the circle button. We will tell you about further complications another time. 
Finally, we should tell you how to deliver the final argument. 
Once all of your opponent’s shields are down, it is time to deliver the Final Counterargument. 
When the time comes… four words will be displayed on the top, bottom, left and right of the screen. 
The circle, triangle, square and cross buttons each match one word. 
Please push the buttons in the correct order and complete your final argument. 
This final argument, correctly formed, will be the decisive blow that defeats your opponent. 
However, if you fail to make the argument within a certain time, your opponent’s shields will recover a little bit, so be careful. 
The rest is up to you. We wish you luck. 

O…O…O…Oo…Ooooooooo… 

UNC’RTULODFUMPK’NSSK’URDK’OPTHO’LMEUTHSSKUT!! 

“Uncultured bumpkins should keep their mouths shut!”… is what he seems to be saying. 

It seems we have to do something to stop him after all… 

If the weapon was a skewer, it makes most sense to hide it in the kitchen. 
But… Togami and me searched the place thoroughly before the party started. 

In other words… it was already hidden in a place where we couldn’t find it at that time. 

Somewhere we wouldn’t think to look… 

Where would that be? Where can you hide something as long as a skewer? 

I have to figure it out…! 

D’AMNETHD’CKAN’TH’CK!! 

“I am not hiding anything”… probably! 

Y’HAV’NEID’WHOLOTH’WOAP’N’S!! 

I have to find the decisive evidence that shows Hanamura is the culprit… and stop him with it! 

PANIC TALK ACTION START 

This is a much improved version of last game’s Machine-gun Talk Battle. As the tutorial explained, instead of alternating between the circle and triangle buttons for locking-on and shooting, this time you have to hit the circle button on a beat to start locking on, keep it down, and then release it on another beat to shoot down the phrases you’ve locked on to. It works pretty well. 

You have no idea where the weapon is!! 

(top) Bone 
(left) on 
(right) Meat 
(bottom) a 

Meat on a Bone 

IT’S OVER! 

You hid the skewer… inside that meat-on-a-bone, didn’t you?! 

W-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w! 

W…What are you talking about…? There’s no way I’d hide a weapon somewhere like… 

H…How is that even possible?! It’s inside food!! 

Yeah… Togami and I also thought it was impossible… and that’s why we overlooked it. 

It doesn’t seem like this pile of food has anything dangerous in it, unlike that Churrasco before. 
I guess… 

Sigh… I almost thought he was going to say that bone could be used to bludgeon someone… 

Thinking another way… Inside the food was the only place we didn’t check. It’s the only possibility left for the hiding place… 

And of all the dishes on offer, the only one big enough to hold a long metal skewer… 
 …is that huge meat-on-a-bone! 

I…IS THAT TRUUUUUUUUE?! 

I…I exercise my right to remain silent! 

You don’t have one! 

I…In that case, we must check ourselves! 

Yes, let’s eat that delicious-looking meat. If we find the skewer there… bingo! 

Alright! Monomi, Monobear, anyone – go grab us that meat and bring it here! 

One minute… I’ll destroy that whole thing in just one minute! 

W-W-Wait just one moment! Time out! Time out! 

WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?!! BRING THAT MEAT OVER HERE NOW!! 

Ah… About that… 

………… 
 Huh…? Where did Monobear go? 
 I’m right here…! 

Om nom nom… I decided to get ahead of the game! 
 GYAAAA! THE BEAR IS EATING MEAT!! 
 …Well, actually, that’s not really so strange, huh? 
 Grom nom nom… This is so delicious. 
 Damn it! That’s my meat you’re eating! 
 I’ve never eaten like this before…! The taste brings back memories of my life in the wild… 

S-S-S-S-S-Stop! Really, stop right now! 
 Oh? There’s something inside this meat… 

Look what I found! 

T…That’s…! 

It’s a steel skewer, isn’t it…? 

Ah, he made the bone into a grip. That’s pretty elaborate. 

It is a Sword of Doom, with a bone hilt and a meat sheath! He used it to bring catastrophe upon Togami! 

I expected nothing less from Hanamura-kun! This is definitely a fantastic weapon, appropriate for a chef! 

Y…You’re wrong… I’m not the culprit… I’m not someone… who would ever kill anyone… 

I get it! It’s all your doing! You’re just trying to frame me! 

…………. 

Sigh… this is disheartening… 
 Struggling like this is unbecoming for a Super High-school Level student like you… You can’t call that “hope” at all, can you? 

Hey, Komaeda-kun… I’m sorry, but can you please stop talking? 

………… 

Y’ULOARR’FUNSTEBS’VAGOSWHEENRY’ATINST’INLOCH’ULANKS!! 

“You’re all a bunch of savages who only eat at chain restaurants!” 

Y…You can stop translating now… I think we all get the general idea! 

OV’LYEN’JUCHSK’TTH’BUNG’P!! 

I’ll handle Komaeda later… Right now, what’s more important… 

We have to bring this to an end… don’t we? 
 Let’s lay out our entire case… We’ll cover the whole incident, start to finish, with no room left for doubt… 

The entire incident… 
We’ll show beyond doubt that Hanamura is the culprit… 

That’s right… if I don’t do that, this will never end. 

I have no choice! 

— 

I want to talk a little bit about the downside of this being a screenshot LP. 

You see, when I first played the game, I was pretty stumped until quite a late stage. I had no idea who was the murderer until just a few minutes before the reveal. I know that’s also the case for many others who played the game. 

The reason for this is simple: the game pulls out quite a clever psychological trick on you. You see, Hanamura’s plan works pretty well - by hearing his voice loud and clear in the blackout scene, I was convinced he was also in the scene that immediately followed. I actually had false memories of lines from him. It helped that the scene immediately following the blackout is short, of course, and also that the player is quite anxious about a murder they know is coming. It also helps that the scene never comes up in flashbacks later. I think Sonia’s line in this update is meant to reflect the player’s thoughts, and the entire thing is executed perfectly for it to work. 

Except it doesn’t work in this screenshot medium, of course - people rereading the update understood very quickly that Hanamura was nowhere to be found in that scene, which pointed the suspicion toward him from the very beginning. That also made all the rest of the evidence pointing to him so much more obvious. It utterly breaks the clever misdirection the game constructs. 

Now, this was also a problem in the previous thread, of course, and I knew it was coming. But it’s also an especially sad example of the problem. 

Tutorial posted:
The time has finally come… Is your heart thumping in excitement too? 
The final, decisive deduction of the school trial… we call it “Climax Inference”. 
In Climax Inference, you are required to put together a summary of the incident. 
The incident will be displayed in the form of a comic book. 
The comic depicts the events of the incident as Hinata-sama remembers them. However, there are a few gaps in it. 
Those gaps are depicted by missing panels. 
Your task is to match the provided Inference Panels with the correct missing panels, and complete the comic. 
The Inference Panels are collected into several sets of 3 to 5 panels each. 
In each of these sets are some correct panels and some incorrect ones. 
Once you finish matching the correct panels in a set, it will be replaced with a new set. 
Once you go through all the sets and fill every missing panel, you win the game. 
As I am sure some of you have already noticed… 
The game starts out difficult, with no missing panels filled, but gets easier as you progress. 
Those of you who played the previous game may get a little confused… but the basic idea is the same. 
There are also a few tricks to help you solve the Climax Inference. 
When you move the cursor over the missing panels in each page, a hint will be displayed. 
The hint describes, in the form of a question, what kind of scene should be depicted in that panel. 
Furthermore, when you move the cursor over the Inference Panels, more hints will appear. 
Here, they will describe the scene the panel depicts. 
Try matching the two types of hint as you solve the game. 
There is a time limit, of course, so don’t dally! 
The rest is up to you… We wish you luck. 

Climax Inference is much improved from the previous game - the panels are larger and clearer, you are told immediately if you got a match right or wrong, and you get the hints which allows you to ignore the graphics completely and simply match questions and answers. 

If you had asked me, after DR1, how I would have changed Climax Inference, my answer would have been… more or less exactly this. The biggest problem with the last iteration was not being able to tell what the Inference Panels were actually depicting and… well, they sure addressed that. Plus, doing it in stages… it’s just sensible. 

THIS IS HOW IT HAPPENED! 

Let’s begin right after the party started. 

We’d all gathered at the big hall in the old lodge after Togami called us there. 

Someone had warned Togami that there would be a murder tonight, and so he set about trying to prevent it from happening. 
He decided to throw a party, so he could get all of us in one place and watch over us. 

Then, even though not everyone was present… the party began. 
But, at that time, a certain person’s plan was already in motion. 

They plugged in three irons in the storage room, and brought the power supply in the old lodge close to its limit. 

In addition, they set up something to turn on at 11:30PM. 

That was the air conditioners in the big hall and the office. They set their timers so they would turn on automatically. 
When that happened, the air conditioners and the irons drew so much power between them that they tripped the circuit breakers. 

With the power off and the windows perfectly sealed, the lodge was thrown into total darkness. 

But Togami was prepared for this. He reached into the duralumin case he had with him… 

…and took out a pair of night-vision goggles. 
It was just one item from the range of defense goods Togami brought to the party in preparation. 
Having put on the goggles, Togami witnessed a certain person behaving suspiciously… 

Komaeda followed the power cord of a tabletop lamp, and crawled under a table. 
That’s right. Up until now, everything had gone exactly according to Komaeda’s plan. 
Both the warning letter and the blackout were planned by him. 

At the same time… in the kitchen which had also gone dark, another person – the true culprit – started working. 

The culprit most likely knew about Komaeda’s plan, and that the power was going to drop… 
That’s why they had already prepared everything they needed to commit their murder in the darkness. 

First, a light… that was the portable stove that was in the kitchen. 

Then, a weapon… that was also something they had hidden in the kitchen. 

A steel skewer used for Churrasco dishes. The culprit hid one inside a large meat on a bone. 

The culprit picked up the stove and the weapon, and exited to the lodge’s corridor… 
There, he closed the fire doors so the light he was holding wouldn’t leak into the rest of the lodge. 

Then, the culprit headed to the storage room, where they acquired one more thing… 

A tablecloth they used to evade blood splatters. 

Having finished their preparations, the culprit used a trap door to sneak into the crawlspace under the big hall. 
They must have turned off the portable stove at that point, or left it by the trap door… 
The hall’s floor was full of gaps, and they couldn’t move around still holding a light source. 

Then, the culprit used glow-in-the-dark paint as a landmark, and managed to reach the spot under the table. 

At that point, Togami found the knife that was hidden under the table… 

Had Togami walked away at this point, he surely would’ve been spared, but… 
…Togami decided to retrieve the knife. And at that exact moment…! 

The culprit hiding in the crawlspace thrust the steel skewer up through the floor! 

They were aiming for the time the glow-in-the-dark paint moved in the darkness. 

Then, having killed Togami, the culprit… 
…raised their voice deliberately, and created an alibi for themselves. 
They then quickly left the crawlspace and hurried back to the kitchen. 

Then, after hiding the tools they used, they mixed with the rest of us, feigning innocence. 

There’s only one person who could have done all that… 
Someone who could think of such a peculiar hiding place for a weapon… 

Isn’t that so… Teruteru Hanamura?! 

That’s the whole truth… How about it? Have I got something wrong? 

S…Something wrong…? There’s n…no way I’d ever kill… 
 No… way… 
 Uuuuu… uuuuuuu……. 

Waaaaaaaaaaaaaah…! 

It seems this is over. 

Uwaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaan!! 

Unlike the first game, where the player was told their score after each phase, here we get scored at the end of the trial. We can go into detail view to see how well we did in each phase: 

Grrah… It seems you bastards have reached your conclusion. 

Oops! It looks like my wild side peeked out. Is this because of that meat I ate? 

…But let’s leave the jokes for later, and begin our nerve-wracking voting time! 
 Well, then. Please use the switches in front of you to vote, you bastards. 

Ah, and let me warn you just in case… You have to vote! No exceptions! 

If someone doesn’t vote… I’ll eat them just like I ate that meat… 

Uuu…! W…Why would you…?! 

Who will be voted the culprit?! Will they get it right, or wrong?! 

Upupupupu! Isn’t this super-exciting?! 

Re: Despair Syndrome 

You bastards are absolutely right! 

That’s right! The culprit who kicked off the mutual killing by killing Togami-kun was Teruteru Hanamura-kun! 

Aba.. abababababa…! 

S…Seriously…?! 
 Of all the people… someone like you killed Togami? 

B…but… 

WHYYYY?! WHY DID YOU KILL HIM?! 

Y…You’re all wrong… all wrong… 
 I…I was just trying to save everybody… 
 I was trying to stop Komaeda’s plan to murder someone! 
 …Eh? 
 What do you mean… “stop him”? 

………… 

I…I had been hanging out in the lodge since morning, making preparations… a…and then… 
 I heard a strange laughing voice coming from the big hall… and when I peeked in there… 

…I saw him. 
 Komaeda, who was on cleaning duty, was hiding a knife under the table…! 

I…I had a bad feeling, so I continued to watch him from the shadows… 
 He took some irons into the storage room, and then set up the air conditioner timers… 
 And he was snickering to himself the entire time…! 
 S…So I decided to confront him… 

But when I did… he…! 

Re: Despair-Syndrome 

…Ah, seems I’ve been caught. 

C…Caught…? 

What have you been doing? What is the meaning of this?! 

Isn’t it obvious? I’m planning to kill someone. 

…Eh? 

Hanamura-kun… Let me make this clear from the outset. It’s useless to try to stop me. 
Even if you manage to stop me this time, I am not going to give up. 
If not tonight, it’ll happen tomorrow. Or the day after. I don’t care how long it takes… I will start this mutual killing… no matter what. 

B…But why? Do you really want out of here so badly…?! 

………… 
I see… Yeah. I can see why you might think that… 

But that’s not it at all. I don’t even expect to survive this ordeal. 
All I want… The only thing I want… is to get this mutual killing going. 

W…What are you saying…? 

I love everyone here. That’s why I want to be of help. 
I love every one of you “Super High-school Level” students. I revere “the symbols of hope”. 

That’s right… I love the talents on which everyone’s hopes are pinned… I love them from the bottom of my heart. 
And that’s why… 

I don’t want you to lose to something like mutual killing. 
I want to prove that no matter how much despair stands in the way, hope will always win in the end. 

I want to prove to everyone that hope cannot possibly lose to despair! 

Y…You’re making no sense at all…! 

You know how the stronger our enemy is the stronger we ourselves become…? That’s something you hear a lot, isn’t it? 
In other words… the stronger the despair that stands in its way, the stronger everyone’s hope becomes. Isn’t that so? 

I… I want to see that kind of hope shining bright. And to that end… I want to become a stepping stone for everyone. 
I want to make your hope shine… That’s all there is to it… 

Re: Living to the Fullest 

That’s right… the thing I desire is the strongest hope – the hope that can crush all despair! 

Y…You’re joking, right…? There’s no way you can be serious about that…! 

So you don’t get it after all… It’s fine. I don’t mind… 

I don’t mind if my love is one sided. I’m somewhat of a die-hard fan, you see. 
Perhaps you should even call me a “Super High-school Level Super High-school Level Fanboy”! 

S…Something’s not right in your head! 

Is that what you think? You think… I’m a little crazy? 

But… isn’t that what love is all about? 

K…Komaeda… what’s the meaning of this? 
 Explain yourself! That story made no sense at all! 

Compare it to your favorite boxer. You want see him keep struggling against strong opponents, don’t you? 

Are you trying to fucking tell us that’s somehow the same?! 

…Eh? Is that so strange? 
 I mean… trials are indispensable for getting stronger, and the more rigorous the trial the stronger one gets. Isn’t that common sense? 

This mutual killing… would be nothing but disaster for regular, worthless people, but… 
 For people of worth, it is a trial that can serve to make them worth even more. 

The fact that someone like myself, with no exceptional talent at all, can become part of that trial… is wonderful! 
 It would be impossible for someone like me to survive this… but it would be so much more worthwhile to die helping everyone achieve greatness! 

There is no greater honor than to become the foundation from which you guys can grow even more worthwhile! 

T…That’s enough… Honestly… I’m getting nauseated… 

Y…You’re making no sense! You’re doing all of this for kicks?! 

No, it’s not for kicks… But I guess that’s what it would look like for all of you. 

The shameless idea of leaving everyone alone and simply trying to survive our ordeal had never even crossed my mind. 
 Is that why… you didn’t care when Hanamura found out what you were doing? 

I think… it was part of his plan all along. Don’t you agree? 

…Eh? 

Komaeda-kun wanted to get us tangled in mutual killing… and for the mystery to be as complicated as possible… 
 And to do that… he arranged it so Hanamura-kun would find him out, didn’t he? 
 He hoped… to give Hanamura-kun a motive… and cause him to complicate the mystery even further… 

Yeah, that’s about right. I certainly hoped that would happen. 
 That’s why I also told him about the trap door I found when I was cleaning the storage room… 

…That was also you? 

I just mentioned it to him casually. I warned him to be careful not to fall in… 

Uuuuuuuu… 

That’s… You’re… utterly… mental… 

T…That’s right! That’s why I decided to stop him! 

Then, why did you kill Togami-san in the end? 

I…I have no idea! 
 Komaeda was supposed to be the one who grabbed the knife! 
 T…That’s why I waited for that moment to thrust the skewer… 

So why did Togami-kun die?! It was supposed to be Komaeda! 
 Togami… wanted to keep Komaeda away from the knife… 
 So… he took Komaeda’s place and… 

Music stops 

…No. I don’t think that’s what happened. 
 …Eh? 

Re: All All Apologies 

I’m sure… that Togami-kun tried to protect Komaeda-kun. 

W…What was that?! 

I mean… didn’t Togami-kun say so himself? 

Don’t worry. As long as I’m your leader, there will not be a single victim. 
I shall lead you well. That, I promise! 

Y…You mean… that in order to keep that promise…? 

He had the night-vision goggles… I think he could see that someone was moving under the floor. 
 And also… that that someone was aiming for Komaeda-kun. 

A…Are you saying that Togami gave his own life to protect Komaeda? Even though he had just been going for a weapon? 

I see… He sure was amazing, Togami-kun… 
 He gave up his own life just so he could fulfill his promise to protect everyone… 
 Sigh… and even though he tried so hard… 

Music halts 

We still arrived at this despair-inducing conclusion! 
 …Wha?! 

Re: Despair Syndrome 

But… we mustn’t let his death go to waste. 
 I’m sure that overcoming this despair is going to make everyone grow stronger again… 

Don’t tell me… you knew Togami would protect you when you enacted your plan? 

…Of course not. I’m not that good with plans. 
 I simply took many measures beforehand. I was looking forward to finding out exactly what the final product of it all would be… 

What actually happened went beyond my wildest expectations. I even got to live through it! 
 But, I thought I mustn’t let my newfound longevity go to waste… 
 That’s why I decided to aid Hanamura-kun. 
 How… does that follow…? 

Because… Didn’t Hanamura-kun do what he did because he, too, was holding strong hope? 
 In other words, his actions were also grounded on hope… 
 That would make him someone I should pursue and desire, wouldn’t it? 

“An absolute hope that can conquer any despair”. 
 I had to find out if he really had such a thing in him, so I decided to help him! 
 W…What the hell do you mean, ‘find out’?! Give us a break! 

When I guessed what was going on inside his heart, I couldn’t contain myself. 
 I mean, he thought he was killing me, but Togami-kun ended up dead instead! 
 If I just left him alone in his confusion, it would be a waste of a school trial, wouldn’t it? 

But, if we want to make our hope grow, the school trial is indispensable. 
 And that’s why… I decided to give him a hand! 
 I mean, I don’t care if I die, so I thought I’d concentrate on having him escape safely. 

I told him as much before we started our investigation. Didn’t I, Hanamura-kun? 

Uuuuuuuuuu… 

In the end my power wasn’t enough. An unfortunate outcome for Hanamura-kun… 

But you can still puff your chest in pride, Hanamura-kun! Your death will not be in vain! 

You are going to become a wonderful sacrifice so everyone can grow even stronger! 

S…Sacrifice…?! 

E…Enough! If I hear another word outta him, I’m gonna lose it! 

Oy… We can’t just leave this crazy idiot alone, can we? 

We should just kill him right now! 

Kyaa! Kill?! You high-school students truly are a mess these days! 

But, it’s not Komaeda-kun who’s going to be killed. It’s Hanamura-kun. 

…Hii?! 

Upupu, you haven’t forgotten, have you? That was the deal from the very beginning. 
 If the culprit loses… a wonderful “punishment” awaits them. 

W…Wait a second… 

That was… what d'you call it…? “Self defense”, or “involuntary manslaughter”… 
 In any case… I think it’s possible I’m not at fault here… 

Even if it’s in self defense or involuntary or even an accident, a murder is a murder! 
 You killed someone, therefore it’s a murder! 

B…But… I deserve a lenient sentence on account of extenuating circumstances… At the very least give me a stay of execution…! 

This court has no such measures!! 

B…But… 

E…Everyone! Help me! I was just trying to stop Komaeda, and yet…! 

Or maybe… you thought it was your own chance after you learned about Komaeda-kun’s plan? 
 You thought that if you took advantage of his plan and killed him, you wouldn’t get caught… 
 Isn’t that what you really thought? 

N…No! That’s not true at all! 

There’s no way that someone with no malicious intent… would kill a person the way you did. 

…Uu!! 

Weren’t you so desperate that you thought you could kill Komaeda-kun and live on after sacrificing everyone? 
 At the very least, be honest with yourself in your final moments. 

Uuuuuuuuu…. 

UWAAAAAAAAAAAA!! 

H…Hanamura-san…! 

If you hadn’t decided to kill Komaeda… Togami wouldn’t have been killed… 
 Why, Hanamura?! Why did you decide you had to kill someone?! 

Music fades out 

Uuu… 
 I…I… wanted to go home… no matter what it took… 

I HAD TO GO BACK HOME WHATEVER THE PRICE WAAAAAS!! 

Re: Welcome Despair Academy 

Because… she’s waiting for me. 
 Mom… is waiting back in the countryside. 
 She’s all alone… waiting for me to come back after graduating Hope’s Peak Academy. 

I’m leaving now! 
Hoh hoh… when I come back, branches in Aoyama and Azabu won’t be just a dream anymore! 
Honestly, that’s all you’re ever talking about… 
But… this isn’t a pipe dream anymore… I mean, they say graduating this school promises success in life, don’t they? 
So… I know it will be difficult all alone… but wait for me until then… 
Yes, I know. 
Until that time comes… I’ll do my best to keep the Hanamura Restaurant running. 
I told you, you don’t have to work too hard! What are you going to do if you collapse again when I’m not here? 
…I’ll be fine. Your mother is a strong woman. 
I won’t lose to any illness! 
Ha ha… I know that… 
………… 
I… know that… 

I made her a promise… 
 I made her a promise that I’ll become a great cook and save the Hanamura Restaurant. 
 Mom… is waiting for me to fulfill that promise. 
 She’s prone to sickness… and all alone… and waiting for me. 

SO I MUST GO HOME!! 

H…Hanamura-san…! 

And then… he said our memories have been taken away… and that years have passed since we entered that school… 

If that’s true, what happened to the Hanamura Restaurant?! 
 What happened to Mom, who’s been waiting for me?! 

You believed it… you believed that story… 

Weren’t you saying this whole time you didn’t believe it? That everything’s alright…? 
 So, why’d you…?! 

I…I still don’t believe it! 

There’s no way I can believe it… it has to be a lie… 

That’s why I wanted to go back home! 

I wanted to go back home… and see for myself that it really was a lie… 

I wanted to see for myself that there was still a place for me to go back to! 

Gu…! Hanamura… you…! 

I don’t believe it… I’ll never believe it… 
 ………… 

Hanamura… wasn’t honest with himself. I think that perhaps… 

…Perhaps he believed it more than anyone else. 

That’s why he felt he needed to deny it. He believed it, so he had to deny it. 
Shit… if I had realized sooner how he really felt, we could have avoided this! 

I…I wanted to see for myself, whatever the cost may be… I had to do something… 
 And then… I heard about Komaeda’s plan. 
 I knew that if I did nothing, he’d kill someone… 
 And then… and then… 

And then, you went and killed someone first, didn’t you? 

………… 
 I’m sorry… everyone… 
 I didn’t want to sacrifice anyone. I just… had to do something… 
 And yet… I ended up killing Togami instead of Komaeda… 
 Oh. I see. 
 It’s me… I’m the one who went crazy. 
 H…Hanamura… 

Hmmhmm, I see. But… 

That’s one boring motive, wanting to meet your mother. 
 …Wha! 

And so… 

Music halts 

I see no value in prolonging this pain any longer, so let’s get started with the punishment!! 

Ocean Breeze Dead End 

Y…You can’t!! 

Don’t get in the way!! 
 Gyaaaaaaaa!! 

Ah, now that I’ve dealt with my annoying little sister let’s get back to business… 

W…Wait… 
 I… won’t ask you for pardon any more, but… at least… 

I prepared a special punishment for our Super High-school Level Cook, Teruteru Hanamura! 

I’m a chef! No, that’s not I wanted to say! 

P…Please… at least… tell me what happened to the Hanamura Restaurant… Tell me what happened to Mom… 

Well, then, time to get excited! It’s punishment time! 

I…It’s a trick… I don’t believe any of it… 
 I… don’t…! 

Music stops 

…MOOOOOOOOMMYYYYYYYY!! 

Hanamura-kun has been found guilty. Now commencing execution… 

Ocean Breeze Dead End

Wooooo!! Extreme!!

KYAAAAAAAA!!

Whoa! Adrenaline rush!

H…Hanamura-saaaaaan!!

Uu…uuuu….! S…Seriously…?!

A…aaaaaaaa…aaaaaaa….!!

W…Why? Why would you do such a brutal thing?

Oh? Didn’t they make you do something like this in elementary school?
 You know, when kids are calling each other names, you write down what they say in a notebook and then read it back in front of them.

It’s important to make kids think hard about what it feels like when the same is done to you.
 It’s just the same for murder.

I…It was you who made him do it!!

Uu… So cruel… That was too cruel…!

Well, we have our rules so I didn’t have a choice. I’m trying to run an orderly Field Trip of Mutual Killing here!
 Rules…? What the hell…?
 It’s you who’s breaking the rules, isn’t it?!

Hm? I can’t just let something like that pass by in silence…
 Don’t you remember what you said when you gave us your “motive” speech?!

It’s just… that I have a condition.
That condition… you don’t mean…?
Upupu… Did you guess already?
That’s right, I want mutual killing out of you bastards!
This is my one and only non-negotiable condition!

S…So why didn’t you tell Hanamura about his mother and their restaurant?
 He had the right to know!

Yeah… and we have the right to know too!

Hey! Tell us, right now! You said you’d return our memories of life at the school, didn’t you?!

You’re right, I certainly made that promise. I said if mutual killing starts, I’d return your memories.

Eh? Are you going to tell them? But… if you do…

But, I never said I’d return your memories straight away, did I?

Wha…?!

Hey, that’s playing dirty!

I will keep my promise, of course. Just like I promised, I will return your memories. Sometime.
 It’s just that I haven’t decided when yet.

Byahyahyahyahya!!

Music stops

U…Um…
 Please excuse me! There’s important business I weally must attend to!

Re: Despair-Syndrome

W…What the hell…?!

That’s not fair! They both ran away!

H…He really played right into Monobear’s hands, didn’t he?

Hanamura… you idiot!

It sure is despair-inducing that things ended this way… Depressingly despair-inducing.
 But, it’s exactly at times like these…

…That the symbols of hope must pull together, and strive for even higher levels!

You bastard… why are you laughing?

Only a real weirdo can laugh at a time like this!

Wait… I’m as sad as the rest of you.
 …Didn’t I say it before?
 I love everyone here… and the wonderful talents you hold… from the bottom of my heart.
 I can never be happy when a wonderful talent like that disappears.

You’ve gotten way too sickening for me to just let it slide! I’m gonna kill you!

Music stops

…Sure! Come and kill me whenever you want!

…Huh?

Tropical Despair

If you don’t like me, I won’t mind if you come and kill me! I’ve already prepared myself to become a stepping stone for everyone!

If my death leads you closer to absolute hope… then my life is cheap.

How twisted are you…?!

But, if you decide to kill me, come consult with me first, will you?
 I’ll cooperate with any culprit that does.
 You’re really… intent on helping culprits, aren’t you…

It’s not such a huge deal.
 Everyone here is a student at Hope’s Peak Academy… The “symbols of hope", chosen for your magnificent abilities and talents…

If someone worthless like me decides to cooperate with a culprit, it should be nothing to you!

Hm. So majestically you declare you would be an accomplice in your own murder…

Couldn’t it be… that that’s just big bro Komaeda’s strategy?
 He’s trying to make potential culprits think there’s value in keeping him alive, since he may be of help later…

Well, think what you want…
 To tell you the truth, thanks to Togami-kun, I’ve actually found some desire to stay alive.

I want to watch, with my own eyes, as you all break through the despair that’s coming…!

Ahaha, just kidding!

Hey, can I punch him? I can’t hold it much longer!
 That’s enough…
 We should just walk away… It seems like just talking with this guy is asking for trouble…!

Huh? Even you hate me, Hinata-kun?

That hurts a little… You’re the one I feel closest to.
 What the…?

You hold special feelings toward Hope’s Peak Academy… You’re just like me, aren’t you?
 That’s… I’m nothing like you…!

Aren’t you? Are you sure of that?
 Monobear said so himself… we don’t know each other. We don’t know each other’s true intentions…

In fact, if the story about our missing school memories is true, we may not even know our own selves.
 That’s… even more so in your case, isn’t it?
 You don’t even remember your own talent…
 …………
 Owari, go ahead and punch him.

…ALRIGHT!

…W…Wait a second!

Music fades out

S…Stop this at once!!
 What purpose… what good is served by fighting like this? We have more… pressing matters to attend to.

Re: Welcome Despair Academy

We… do…?

We should not fight each other. That will not help anyone.
 A much more important task awaits us…

And what would that be?

We must find our resolve.

…Oh?

First, we return above ground… and get some rest.
 Then… we stand together once more. We give our all… that we might never again need see this awful place.

That is what we must do right now. That’s what I think…

I apologize… I should have stated it better, but my Japanese isn’t good enough…

No… that was… incredible…!
 She’s right… we have to find our resolve…!
 If we really apply ourselves… I’m sure it’s gonna pay off.

Of course it will.

But… exactly what are we supposed to “resolve” to do?

I… I am not sure. But let’s do our best to find out!

Sigh… None of you are making any sense. I’m surrounded by idiots.

I think it’s fine that we’re not sure.
 For now, what’s probably important is just to set our minds on doing our best.

So… let’s do our best. Let’s not have any more mutual killing.

It’s scary… but there’s nothing else we can do. I don’t want to be some plaything for that bear.

Yes! I’m not sure what’s going on, but I’m gonna do my best too!

The plan has… potential. The future may be set in stone… but we will reach it by a path of our own choosing.

I… will not give up until it’s all over…! I will not die in vain…

I will wager my body and soul, all my strength, my very existence! I WILL SHOW YOU HOW A MAN FIGHTS TO THE END!!
 Yeah, that’s right…

Let’s give it all we have! We can definitely leave this island, together!

“Find our resolve”. “Do our best”. “Give all we have”. We repeated those words over and over.

We knew they were cheap words… We knew they didn’t mean all that much…
But all the same… we repeated them.

We repeated them as many times as we could, without taking a break.

Music fades out

And so the curtain closed on the school trial that made victims of Togami and Hanamura.

After that, we left the courtroom and returned to the surface of Jabberwock Island…
We decided to go back to our cottages.

Re: Desire for Execution

…………

I couldn’t sleep… No wonder, considering what I’d just been through.
Eventually, I gave up, left my bed, and went out into the hotel’s public area.

I didn’t do anything… Just stared vacantly into the sky.

As always, the night sky was packed with stars.

They looked like falling snowflakes, almost as though I could hold out my hand and catch one…
It was a truly beautiful sight.

As I looked, a thought suddenly entered my mind.

“I can… go anywhere I want.”

The entire world shares this same sky. Even the part of it where my old, regular life was.

That’s why… I’m sure I can go back.

That’s right. I’ll definitely go back.

…Hm?

I was suddenly taken over by a strange sensation.

I felt as though my entire body had petrified… Frozen in place, staring at the sky.

Music fades out

Is that…

…………
 Is someone… watching me?

Re: Despair-Syndrome

19 More Days

Chapter 1: Tropical Despair

Remaining students: 14

Chapter 1 Cleared

You got the present: Three-star badge

You got the present: Wooden stick 